on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr martin, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the epp group and on my own behalf, i would like to congratulate you and our new president. i wish him much courage, much lucidity, much strength, to lead as dignifiedly and as responsibly as possible this institution which collectively represents 500 million europeans. but first i want to congratulate nirj deva and diana wallis who have also put themselves forward as candidates for the presidency of this institution. i want to tell them that although the two main groups in this house took the political decision at the beginning of the mandate to give one of their own successive presidencies of parliament, my group respects their candidacy and thanks them for their contribution to this election. but i also want to thank this morning, mr martin schulz, your predecessors and in particular jerzy buzek, who has given this parliament the statesmanlike qualities that poles already knew him to be. mr buzek and, before him, hans-gert pöttering and all their predecessors, starting with simone veil, the first president of the european parliament elected by universal suffrage, all the presidents present here who have succeeded each other have, in their own way, strengthened the powers and competences of this institution. your political action, mr president schulz, will be along these lines. mr president, for years we have had the opportunity to work together as group chairmen. i do not share your political convictions, for the most part, and our respective political groups differ on many issues. this has not prevented us from placing our trust in you, because in the difficult situation europe is facing, what unites us is far more important than what divides us. you have, mr president, and you have just said so, a determination to defend the general european interest with all your might against the diversity of national interests. my group can only support you fully in this mission, in this action, aware that the coming months are going to be one of the most critical periods that europe has known since its creation. we have three priorities: defending the community method, advocating the community method and safeguarding the community method. nothing is more important than defending europe's heritage, namely to safeguard the general interest, to protect the smaller states from the larger ones and to respect their views without allowing immobility. nothing is more important than to emerge from the crisis from above, namely through stronger european integration, and nothing is more important than to demonstrate to our fellow citizens that the euro will be a strong and sustainable currency, provided we do what we should have done since its creation, namely economic and political governance. finally, nothing is more important than preserving the common good of solidarity between 500 million europeans. ladies and gentlemen, in creating what was to become the european union, the founding fathers set themselves an unprecedented challenge to unite the destinies of countries and peoples that had in the past been torn apart and killed each other for centuries. adenauer, schuman and de gasperi have risen to the challenge and their successors have, to this day, perpetuated this european dream despite economic and internal difficulties and the upheaval of global geostrategic data. it is up to our generation not to fail in its task. it is up to us to overcome the current financial crisis, the current crisis of confidence, to ensure for our children - and you said it - a future that is not only sustainable but above all a better future. it is to you, mr president, and to us, ladies and gentlemen, as the elected representatives of the people of europe, that this challenge is addressed in the first place. it is up to you and us, together with the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, to show sufficient responsibility to convince our states that shared sovereignty and genuine economic and political convergence are our best weapons to meet the challenge of growth. mr martin schulz, as president of this institution you will have many external challenges to face and the epp group will be with you to do so in the european spirit i have just mentioned. we also encourage you to take this message to countries like ukraine, where yulia tymoshenko is being treated in an unacceptable way, or like syria, where the will of the people for change is being suppressed in an unspeakable way. you also intend to improve the internal functioning of this parliament, and i congratulate you on that. your predecessors have shown the way, and the recent adoption of a code of conduct is in line with the wish for greater transparency and greater accountability on the part of each member. my group will therefore support you on this front. mr president, you are now the head of an institution which has no equivalent in the world: a plurinational parliament which votes laws. for two and a half years you have been the leader of a parliament which does not seek to impose on the council the idea that it is not by creating a second treaty, a second parliament, a second governance that we will overcome our present difficulties, but by convincing it of this, mr president, that we will stand behind you whenever you defend this integrated europe, this europe of solidarity, this europe of innovative solutions. we will stand behind you whenever you advocate common european policies, whenever you fight for funding commensurate with the ambitions of these common policies. finally, we will stand behind you whenever you defend and promote, beyond our borders, the ideals and values on which our union is founded, namely freedom, tolerance, respect for the weakest and solidarity. i wish you, dear martin, a successful presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i didn't quite get that. you know that the order of the vice presidents is determined by the number of votes. that means you either have to go through the voting process or you don't. it was not clear in your rather hasty explanation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, presiding over the council of ministers of the union at the present time is not an easy task, but i am sure that, having been well trained as a member of the european parliament, madam prime minister, you are fully equipped for this task. madam president, i agree with the four priorities under which you have, in a very classic way, placed your six months at the head of the council, namely responsibility, the dynamism of europe, a green europe and security. i welcome these ambitions, i share them, but as everyone here knows, presidencies never choose their agendas and it is the political reality of the moment that will serve as your guide. i therefore ask your presidency not to be a technical presidency only; the european union must be a political presidency, given the scale of the challenges that lie ahead of you and us. that is why i am asking you and your presidency to work closely with this parliament, which you know well but which some in your government would like to see more rapid and expeditious in its deliberations. but you know how it works in this parliament! i am, with my group, in favour of rapid and effective legislative action, of course, and the markets are teaching us or forcing us, in recent times, to work faster than before. but i am also in favour of a well-functioning democracy and transparency. i am sure, madam president, that your presidency will find its place alongside this parliament, the commission and the european council. i would like to stress once again that we must be political, because the times we are living in require that european actors not only put oil in the wheels, build bridges, but also be committed and visible. the first week of your presidency will be dominated by the negotiations on the budget treaty, on which there are differing views in this house, whether it is appropriate or not. my group hopes that the presidency will be fully involved in these negotiations and, above all, that it will defend two major principles with its partners in the council, namely european integration in the fiscal and economic spheres, of course, but also in the political sphere and in the community method. and since this is a time for wishing, i would add that the epp group would be very grateful if you could put the first discussions on the financial perspective on track. it's not an easy case, but when things are not easy, you have to be brave. the reforms we are trying to implement on fiscal consolidation and growth will certainly be your main concerns, but we must not overlook the crucial debate that europe will inevitably have to have on its finances for the period 2014-2020. i have always said that a euro used here in europe, with the commission, is a whole euro. the euro spent in a country with a deficit is already worth 30 or 40 cents to growth. here the euro is a whole euro. and if the danish presidency manages to start the debate on a sound basis, that is to say without any taboos, particularly on own resources, if it is able to demonstrate to the member states, as this parliament says, that the money spent at european level on large horizontal projects is much better spent than if it is spent piecemeal, you will be entitled to our full appreciation after your presidency. madam president, with the efficiency and courage of presidencies held by countries, let us say, smaller than others, i believe that the time has come for presidencies, as poland has recently done, to have ambition, and i believe that even if your country has taken a leave of absence from several common policies, including monetary policy, you can, indeed you must be bold in your proposals. help this parliament to convince the member states that the solution to our problems is more convergence and more europe and that it will thus be much more tangible for our citizens. i wish you the best for the next six months.
mr president, mr president of the european commission, let us first talk about economic and financial matters. you have said, madam prime minister, that denmark has no intention of becoming involved in the economic integration of the euro area. can you give us some assurance about the rapid completion of the legislative proposals on derivatives and the two regulations which are to complete the reworking of the stability and growth pact? we need these texts. majorities a political majority in particular are being formed on the financial transaction tax; could you give us your precise political position on the subject? i would then like to draw your attention to trade policy. the council gives the commission a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the union. it is a competence of the union, and we, the european parliament, have a new political competence to approve trade-related treaties. i would draw your attention to the need not to be naive and to apply the principle of reciprocity; for example, on the negotiations with mercosur, will the exchange of offers take place at the end of your presidency? so be extremely careful. finally, on growth, when president van rompuy came to give us an account of the last european council, i proposed that there should be a whole european council devoted to growth. you are a member of the european council, with a special position. president schulz wishes to be invited to the european council; the european council will be a very important forum for the discussion of the future of the union. i wanted to speak about social convergence, but i have no more time.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your excellent report. given the economic and social crisis we are going through, employment must be a priority for our institutions, madam prime minister. there are 23 million businesses in the european union and 23 million unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. i would like to welcome the european commission's proposal on social entrepreneurship. it is a sector which will eventually represent €100 billion in turnover in the european union, representing 3 to 7.5% of the european union's workforce. this proposal, mr barroso, is ambitious, timely and i would like to see it adopted by the plenary during your presidency. that's our wish, and i know it's yours.
mr president, i would like to speak on the basis of rule 146 of our rules of procedure when you take over the presidency. we shall be voting on resolutions which are not translated into all the languages. i'd like you to make a solemn commitment to uphold multilingualism in this house, please.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't want to correct you. but i think we agreed that there would be a first round of group leaders before the vote. if i'm wrong, i apologize, if i'm wrong, you should apologize.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would first like to thank my three colleagues who have integrated me in a spirit of solidarity into the discussion group, as decided by the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. i would like to say two things about this treaty. first of all, it's completely useless. we don't need this treaty. it is not a treaty, it is an intergovernmental agreement which, according to those who have invented it, exists only to reassure the markets by asking for the constitutionalization of the so-called debt brake or the golden rule to be incorporated into national legislation. all the markets are telling us that they're not interested anyway. so we are making an intergovernmental agreement which does not interest the markets today because they want a political conception of the european economy for tomorrow. and this treaty will not ensure that political conception. we ask the member states that sign this treaty, for example, to say: we need a road map for the commission on the financial transaction tax. we are asking for a road map for the redemption fund, for the eurobonds. we won't have that in the treaty. for our group, with this agreement - you see, i always say "agreed" when it is an agreement - we are wasting time trying to improve something that is useless anyway. we are smart, we will improve it, but it is not the necessary response to the financial and economic crisis europe is experiencing today. this parliament must be clear. if it does not take legislative initiatives to demand that the necessary be done, it will not be able to meet the requirements of what needs to be done against the crisis of today.
in writing. at a time when the member states, under the impetus of the franco-german partnership, are redoubling their efforts to bring europe out of the crisis and to establish genuine economic governance, i regret the position of the european parliament which expresses doubts as to the necessity of the governmental agreement reached last december. the aim of the agreement is to create a 'fiscal stability union' which is capable of both reducing debt and strengthening financial stability in the euro area. the member states can no longer live beyond their means and must bring their budgets back into balance as quickly as possible. budgetary discipline becomes the gold standard. i am convinced that this agreement represents a decisive step in european integration, and i have therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. i am expressing more than my doubts today about the new treaty, which should now be called the intergovernmental treaty, which is under negotiation... we do not need a new treaty, and certainly not this one! let's do with the existing! we must focus on debt, but we must go beyond budgetary austerity: in a previous resolution this parliament called for a road map with a plan for growth, investment and employment. that's the direction we should be going. unfortunately, this parliament is not included in these negotiations. what legitimacy would an agreement negotiated in this period of deep crisis in the eu have without full and complete cooperation with the european parliament as well as with the national parliaments?
in writing. i did not vote for the resolution criticising the outcome of the european council of 8 and 9 december 2011. the agreement reached, at the instigation of nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel, provides the appropriate basis for strengthening budgetary discipline through a mechanism of automatic sanctions and the inclusion in each constitution of a golden budgetary rule. i would add that parliament's resolution implicitly and inappropriately defends the right of the court of justice of the european union to monitor the level of deficits in national budgets. it also provides for the possibility for states not participating in the enhanced economic union to take part in the negotiations on the final text!
in writing. this resolution is again off the table. the only way out of the economic and institutional crisis is to strengthen the 'community method', i.e. to build a europe without the peoples. the draft intergovernmental treaty essentially proposes 'ever closer' economic governance and quasi-automatic sanctions for member states. while claiming to 'fully respect the responsibilities of national parliaments', the text marginalises the representatives of the people a little more, places the court of justice of the eu above national constitutions and forces states to conduct an economic policy determined from outside (the policy of austerity and deflation). neither the absence of an optimal currency area nor the european market's overexposure to social and ecological dumping from low-cost countries are taken into account. with a wrong diagnosis of the crisis and a wrong remedy for it, european economies will not have the freedom they need to regain their dynamism and growth.
in writing. i was surprised to see mr douglas peterson absent from the house, as he is now more than a party to your policies. the problem is not that the new so-called 'fiscal' treaty is purely intergovernmental or in line with the community method. it is a new prison for national policies, a new prison cell that the european union is increasingly becoming. it is intended to speed up and sanctify a budgetary policing process which is already part of the six-pack. and, of course, to re-create international finance, which has become your alpha and omega. we know what is happening to the credibility of your actions on the small financial oligarchy that claims to rule the world: loss of "a" repeatedly, first of the states, then of all the communities, companies, entities that benefit from their guarantee. refusal of banks to honour their promise to contribute to the resolution of the crisis, despite the 500 billion euros made available to them by mr draghi. all this is a guarantee of new financial and economic difficulties, which will themselves lead to further deterioration in an endless vicious circle in which the eternal losers are the impoverished, precarious and oppressed peoples of europe.
in writing. i abstained on the joint resolution on the conclusions of the european council (8 and 9 december 2011) on a draft international agreement on a union for fiscal stability. the resolution stresses the need for a community approach to the establishment of a genuine economic and budgetary union, and in substance, by stressing that budgetary discipline alone cannot solve the european economic and financial crisis, but the text does not sufficiently call into question the substance of the draft agreement. the root causes of the crisis must be addressed by challenging neoliberal policies; the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland on trade in textile products, and on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland on trade in textile products, and on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland on trade in textile products, and on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on trade in textile products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
in writing. contrary to what the resolution says, i have no doubt that an intergovernmental agreement is necessary for fiscal stability in europe. on the contrary, it is a significant step towards a strong, immediate and lasting response to the financial, economic and social crises affecting many member states of the union. it would be irresponsible and unrealistic, as the french socialist party points out, to renegotiate such an agreement! i abstained on the final vote on this resolution because the text also states that all member states, including those which do not have the euro, should participate in the euro-zone summits. this is economic and political nonsense, because the euro area member states want to strengthen economic governance and budgetary coordination.
in writing. the draft treaty currently under negotiation is unacceptable in substance and form. it is purely punitive in substance and consists exclusively in constitutionalising the 'golden rules' of deficit reduction and promoting austerity, ignoring the absolute need to invest in order to restore growth and employment. this treaty is locking europe into recession, and we cannot accept that. the form of the agreement is negotiated in secret by the heads of state, completely ignoring the role of the european parliament as co-legislator and the role of the national parliaments. the negotiating group granted to the european parliament is far from allowing a fair representation of european citizens in this discussion. the resolution adopted may express some criticisms and reservations about the draft treaty, but it is too timid on these points, which is why i abstained.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. it clearly calls into question the commitment and determination of our president of the republic, who, alongside the german chancellor, has worked tirelessly to combat the financial and economic crisis and to strengthen european economic governance. this resolution lacks all encouragement and consideration for the efforts made since the beginning of the crisis and is only too particular in its legal form. but this is primarily a political question. this resolution was adopted by 521 votes to 124. i'm sorry for what i did. the votes in favour are the result of a heterogeneous conglomerate of anti-europeans, nationalists, federalists and other pro-community people of all stripes.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 8 and 9 december on a draft international agreement on a budgetary stability union. at the european council on 9 december, 26 eu member states committed themselves to strengthening budgetary and economic coordination and laid the foundations for a new interinstitutional treaty on european economic governance. i regret that the european parliament, through this resolution, is expressing its doubts as to the relevance of this draft intergovernmental treaty, which is a strong political act towards greater european integration and cohesion. i do not think it is any more sensible than the resolution calls for all states, including non-euro-area states, to participate in euro-area summits.
in writing. i strongly oppose the move to draw up a new treaty imposing austerity on the peoples of europe. the current negotiations bypass the representatives directly elected by the european citizens by limiting themselves to the circle of governments and excluding national parliaments and the european parliament. the adoption of the form of negotiation between states gives the most democratic bodies only a role of validating the fact of the matter. this denial of democracy is all the more intolerable, since the very future of the european project is at stake, which exchanges european solidarity for the austerity demands of the central bank and the commission. the mechanisms of supervision and sanction provided for constitute a step up in the economic policy of the states, prohibiting them from any stimulus through consumption and investment. the union must instead fundamentally revise its economic foundations and move towards a new pact for social progress which puts people at the centre of its concerns. a european central bank, at the service of the people, must be the instrument of this ambition by giving priority, through credit, to investments that create wealth and public goods in education, training, research, infrastructure and public services.
in writing. this joint resolution by the right, the social democrats and the greens marks their agreement with the substance of the treaty under negotiation, namely the imposition of a strengthened golden rule. this rule requires member states to have balanced or surplus budgets and to aim for a reference figure of 0.5% of nominal gdp of structural deficit. it forces them to engrave this dictate preferably in the marble of their constitution. it requires them to set up automatic mechanisms for 'correcting' their budgetary policies as directed by the commission. far from being concerned about such measures, the four signatory groups merely call for their participation in the process of creating the new treaty and its incorporation into community law within five years. they do not even demand the right for the people to decide by referendum on this new round of 'austerity'. i vote against it.
in writing. i am not in the habit of going against the wishes of my group, especially when it comes to giving our opinion on decisions that are so decisive for the future of our union. but the text presented calls into question all the work, all the efforts made by our governments. nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel, the initiators of the agreement, have said it many times: this text is "the best common denominator". we're not playing. this is not the time to put an end to the non-receiving in the inexhaustible battle between the "bad intergovernmental method" and the "good federalism". all wills are good to take. the agreement goes so far that we even have a major absentee: the united kingdom. i am of course in favour of a strong european parliament. we have the heavy burden of representing half a billion people. but first, let's assume our own prerogatives. the question was: how to solve the sovereign debt crisis. so it was up to them and them alone to find a solution. they have done so, as we meps have been asking for a long time. we should have stressed that point. i regret that this text was adopted.
in writing. i abstained from voting in favour of this resolution because i do not share all the conclusions it contains. it seems to me inappropriate to criticize the efforts made by the german chancellor and the french president to achieve real economic governance through an agreement that allows for the rapid adoption of courageous measures. we must welcome, on the contrary, the emergence of political will in the euro area countries to go further and faster in integrating the economies and respecting the stability pact. however, we must be careful not to create two different legal orders and to involve in an appropriate way the states which have not yet adopted the euro. finally, we must combine this policy of fiscal stability with a genuine policy of sustainable growth and employment, so as not to be locked into a recessionary spiral. the structural funds will be the essential instrument.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr prime minister, dear viktor orbán, in 2010 the hungarian people, by a very large majority, trusted you to make reforms. you have now taken over the reins of a country that is in a bad state, both economically and in terms of corruption. that's one of the reasons for your unprecedented success in the general election. the hungarians elected you with a clear mandate: to break with the political orientations of the past and reform the country, as you have just said. that is what you have undertaken to do. hungary was the last country in central and eastern europe to retain its 1949 constitution of stalinist origin. the constitutional reform was debated and adopted by the parliament, which also voted the thirty cardinal laws. several of them have been criticised and doubts have been raised as to their compatibility with union law. the only way to know whether these criticisms and doubts are justified is to leave it to the judgment of the european commission, the guardian of the european treaties. my group will rely entirely on that judgment as it always does in similar cases. yesterday, as president barroso has just reminded us, the commission has given hungary a month's notice to amend the constitutional reforms on three important issues. the hungarian authorities also said yesterday that they were ready to respond to the european commission's requests, and today the prime minister, on his own initiative, offered to answer directly the questions of the members of the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about serious things and serious things here. we are talking about democracy, the rule of law, european values. the members of the epp group are at least as committed as the vast majority of this parliament to respect for freedom and democracy. i am sure that mr orbán will prove to us that he too subscribes to these principles and values.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, we are today discussing a substantive issue, our values, our rights. i would like to ask mr swoboda: has this parliament ever had to ask for a commissioner because of the repression under the socialist regime in hungary? i have never heard such a request from this parliament and this repression has not taken place. do you recognize this?
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i think i am dreaming, because all of european public opinion is visibly in a bad way. according to all the european newspapers, right and left, there is a hungarian problem. and here the hungarian prime minister and the right wing of this parliament are telling us: "there is no hungarian problem". so we are completely schizophrenic. i want to tell you something very simple. the european union is not a doormat on which we wipe our feet, but a common house that we are building together, mr orbán. and when yesterday in hungary you issued a press release saying: 'i am going to strasbourg to defend the honour of hungary against the attacks of the international and european left', i said: 'mrs clinton is part of the european left. welcome to the club. mrs merkel is part of the european left. i think it's completely bling bling what's going on in this debate. mr orbán, you come here and tell us: "but i did everything to change the constitution, which was a stalinist constitution", and mr daul, who is the official agent of your party here, tells us: "it was a stalinist constitution". so this whole parliament, you, all of us, as many as we are, are completely insane, because we have accepted a country with a stalinist constitution into the european union. you guys are crazy! it's not possible. how did you do that? shame on us! but mr orbán, when you, your country and your party were at that time in favour of joining the european union, i have not once heard the conservatives say: 'wait until we have changed the stalinist constitution before you take us into the european union'. i didn't hear that. stop this nonsense! there is a renewal, that's true. but when we say renewal, it can go in the right direction or in the wrong direction, and we tell you that you are going in the direction of the chávez, castro, and all the totalitarian and authoritarian governments of this underworld, which we fight together, with you; and you, you don't have the strength to fight that when it comes to mr. orbán. i'll give you three examples that touch me personally. the mayor of budapest, who is from mr orbán's party, has just appointed the director of the budapest theatre, someone who not only has ties with the far right but also a history of anti-semitism and who claims to be loyal to a hungarian intellectual who, when viktor orbán was viktor, left a theatre saying: "we will never tolerate what this intellectual said about nationalism and anti-semitism in hungary". and today, we rehabilitate these people and it is endorsed by fidesz. if you do not agree, i say something very simple: "let's follow guy verhofstadt's proposal. let us send a delegation through the committee on civil liberties to investigate under article 7 why the homeless in hungary are afraid, why intellectuals are afraid, why my family and people i know who are jews in hungary are afraid today, why the spirit of your new constitution is that of a past hungary which is frightening many hungarian citizens. even if you have the majority, minorities have the right not to be afraid in your country, mr. orbán. and that is why, if you are so sure of yourself, if you are sure that there are no democratic problems in hungary, we must use article 7 and we will see the report that is produced. and if you're right, i'll apologize to you. and if you are wrong, i ask you to forgive me, gentlemen of the conservatives, because to fight for freedom and democracy, one does it, when one is strong, against one's own family. it's easy to say it's always the other guy. but it's when your own family slips away that you see the courage of those fighting for freedom, not the collaborators. (applause from the right) (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". comrade mauro, i'll tell you something: i never said that we should go back to the old constitution; i simply said that, perhaps, the current constitution was not good. mr. putin has made a new constitution, it is not good, even if it is not the same as the soviet union. what you're saying doesn't mean anything! secondly, i'm going to tell you something very simple. mr orbán says here: "parliament is wonderful". but he changed the order of business and the working methods of the hungarian parliament, so that the hungarian opposition did not have the opportunity to discuss changes to the constitution. do you think it's fair to change the constitution in 48 hours?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are in a somewhat surreal session this afternoon. is this really about democracy, the rule of law and human rights? a prime minister of a member state has travelled to the house to explain himself. that's an unusual enough thing to be noted. we could welcome this if we did not think that this would be exploited for purely domestic political purposes. what are we talking about today? a constitution voted in haste, in a matter of weeks, by a government enjoying an overwhelming majority in its national parliament, and everyone knows that this is a majority of circumstances. this constitution, adopted last april, has been in force since 1 january, but in the meantime more than 300 laws have been voted, including 30 so-called cardinal laws which deal with matters of least importance in the light of these so-called european values: infringement of the independence of the magistrates, of course, mr president of the commission, but also a challenge to freedom of expression and media pluralism, conception of nationality, renunciation of the republican form of the state, a challenge to the separation of church and state, by putting forward the famous christian values, a narrow conception of the family, a challenge to minorities, particularly homosexuals and roma, and freedom of association. the list goes on and on. i must have forgotten. the european parliament alerted the commission in july, but it was not until december, mr barroso, that you became concerned about what was happening in hungary. and tell us what? "watch out for the independence of the hungarian central bank!" this is a good example of the reality of european values. the procedures launched yesterday are therefore not up to the problems, nor are the hungarian responses. the social consequences of the economic and financial crisis, which the european institutions are daily demonstrating their inability to manage, are causing the brown plague to strike again at europe's doorstep, with the rise of nationalism and the exploitation of fears! let us remember the past, but all the past! let's not make history, at least not in this room. let us help the hungarian democrats. they are not being manipulated by anyone, mr prime minister, they are only daring to believe in values which, as mrs aung san suu kyi said this week, are universal values: democracy and human rights.
mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction at seeing this house, elected by direct universal suffrage, debate political issues which are essential for solidarity within the european union. but at the same time it does not bode well that we are going to have to look at the democratic system in hungary for the third time in less than a year. this raises questions not only about the development of the situation in hungary and the populist drift it is experiencing but also, more generally, about the state of health of some of our european democracies where democratic debate is difficult, if not simplified or biased. it is, however, essential to ensure that the common rules are respected by all the members participating in the european project, especially at a time when we are constantly calling to order a state which is failing to comply with the sacred budgetary orthodoxy. nor is it acceptable to sweep away at a stroke the values whose respect is a prerequisite for gaining the sesame of membership of the european union, and then, once in the circle, to give oneself the opportunity to no longer respect them. the commission's move yesterday to launch an infringement procedure, which is part of its mandate as guardian of the treaties, must be acknowledged, but i believe that we cannot confine ourselves to simple adjustments on legal aspects, especially if we are soon to review the situation in hungary on social issues. that is for parliament and the commission, but what does the council say? the council, with a few exceptions, has also been deafeningly silent. in the end, although i am not entirely sure that this will be the case, i hope above all that this debate will convey to the hungarian people the message that europe, through its parliamentarians today, is sensitive to their difficulties, does not ignore them or forget them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. i know how you do it. you're gonna go home and say, "i gave those guys a couple of slaps". that's exactly what you said last time. so i want you to take this one in peace. if you think we have a negative affect on hungary, you are wrong. do you think i would have risked my life and freedom to help illegally against the communists and bring information leaflets to hungary out of hatred for hungary? there is no country in the world where there are only freedom fighters, not france, germany, italy or hungary. there were many people in hungary who did not fight for freedom in certain historical periods. and there were many hungarians who fought for freedom. i'll tell you what, in modern states, christianity can be an important religion. but a modern state and an open society cannot be based on religion. otherwise, atheists, jews, muslims, whatever, are not comfortable in this state. this is precisely what is depressing many people in hungary today: they are uncomfortable with the nationalist-chauvinist mood. accept that! go home, sleep on it, and think about how viktor would have felt about it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would just like to come back to two or three points. european values are not christian values. the european values are freedom of conscience, freedom to believe in the religion of one's choice, freedom to believe or not to believe. the second thing i wanted to say, mr orbán, is that to attack the hungarian government, to criticise the hungarian government's policy, is not to criticise hungary; it is not to attack hungary and it is not to attack the hungarian people. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the other thing i wanted to say is that you invite us all to read the hungarian constitution. unfortunately, i do not speak hungarian. i know there's been some translation work. i hope we will receive these texts in our own languages so that we can analyse the facts, because i always analyse the facts! finally, mr orbán, i hope that many of us will go to hungary. i'll go with you. i will talk to hungarian society, representatives of hungarian civil society and anyone who wants to talk to me. i also hope that many of us, as part of a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, will also be able to go there to judge the acts, as you have asked us to do.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, for once i am not the first to speak, but i would simply like to say that the debate has taken place. we are in a democracy. if it doesn't work perfectly, democrats are there to listen, to move forward and to change. you all have been to hungary, and i have been to hungary. at the moment we can still move freely in hungary and i think we will be able to move in hungary for a very long time. politics is politics, but in hungary, we move freely. but it is true that the problems we are facing today are common to all our countries and not just in hungary. this applies to the whole of europe. the crisis we are going through will make more and more people poor and i don't think it's the hungarian government that is to blame. and i would not blame those who governed yesterday, who were also the cause of the deficits. we all have a responsibility to find solutions. and i'm sure that here, with viktor orbán, who is not a chavez and it hurts my heart that, in this debate, in democracy, in a democratic house, we use such names, it goes too far, it's not normal we are looking for solutions. he's there, even if he's not perfect. who is perfect? let the perfect one cast the first stone! and i believe that together, we will find the solution.
in writing. hungary has a problem today and we have to solve it. france is particularly committed to respect for human rights and democracy. i am concerned about the direction the constitutional reform has taken. a first stone was thrown into the pond a few months ago when the hungarian government passed a law restricting the independence of the media. today, the independence of the hungarian central bank, the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the national data protection authority are under threat. viktor orbán fought against communist totalitarianism, hungary is now part of the union and there are fundamental values to be respected. the european union is fighting for democracy and human rights in the world. so let us be logical, we cannot support the arab revolutions on the one hand and let one member state put its democracy at risk. i am glad to see that the european commission has taken up the matter fully and i hope that with the help of the hungarians we will be able to find a way out of this situation which will allow us to reconnect with the values which are at the heart of our commitment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating you and thanking you for the personal action you took in durban, which actually led to an almost binding agreement, despite - i take the words of our colleague mr lorenz in a less diplomatic way - the extremely firm reluctance of the polish presidency on certain points. i also congratulate you on your firmness in integrating aviation into the ets in the face of threats from the us and china. we made progress. we have made much less progress than we would have liked and we now know that there is very little chance that we will be able to achieve the two-point reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that we promised. in these negotiations, it is the governments that have not yet taken the measure of the magnitude of the risk we face, starting with the united states and canada. but china, while making significant efforts internally, has also been a blocking element. the oil and gas lobbies have also played a very harmful role and we can only worry that the next cop will be held in qatar, a country which is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases per capita in the world and which, moreover, deprives civil society, trade unions, ngos and women of their rights. that is a symbol that is really abhorrent on such an important subject. progress will only be possible as long as world governance is moving forward. and this year should be the opportunity to do just that by taking up the progress that has been made, particularly in the direction of the least developed countries. i would like to conclude by saying that this voluntarism, which has proved its worth in durban, must also be applied in europe. it's not just about protecting the climate. this is in the interest of the european economy and we must fight to become or remain, as the case may be, the leaders of the transition to a green economy. this ambition will only be manifested in the coming months and you can of course count on our full support, madam commissioner, to move in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you. we did indeed avoid drowning in durban. you have succeeded in imposing the idea that there is a relevant framework for negotiations, but on the other hand we have not really started to stop climate change. you have had, with the notable exception of poland, the support of the member states to defend this framework of negotiations, but you know, unfortunately, that you do not have the same consensus of the member states to implement an ambitious climate policy. what i am proposing to you, madam commissioner, is that the dg clima, which you are heading, should contribute to europe's exit from the crisis, by showing how an ambitious climate policy could, very broadly, contribute to the exit from the crisis via energy efficiency, via energy savings, via renewable energies, via technological innovation. perhaps then we would have a document that would enable us to fight - we in the member states, you at european level - so that this old economy would be released from our political leaders and the new economy could finally emerge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for too long europeans have produced waste with little or no concern for recycling it at the end of its life. even today, too few european citizens have the reflex to treat their electrical and electronic waste. one example: when i wanted to return a multi-use item to my diy store last weekend, the salesman didn't know what to do with it at all. fortunately, his supervisor explained that his store did indeed have a collection point for customers, which he discovered at the same time as i did. so there is a lot of progress to be made in this area. today, only 33% - as we have already said - of waste electrical and electronic equipment is collected and treated properly. i shall therefore vote in favour of the text that was negotiated with great difficulty by my colleague, karl-heinz florenz, and i congratulate him on the remarkable work he has done over the last few months. i congratulate him on setting the target for each member state of collecting 85% of the waste electrical and electronic equipment generated in its territory by 2016. the commission has also proposed that the waste be disposed of in a waste disposal plant, which is a waste disposal plant. this directive will make progress in collecting. it will accompany and reinforce the gradual change in the behaviour of european citizens. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the world of work. it costs nothing, it's good for the planet and it's good for future generations. i take this opportunity, mr president, to congratulate you on your election and to ask you to contribute to energy efficiency by trying to raise the temperature here and to use less air conditioning. the chamber is cold and energy efficiency would require a different temperature control.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would firstly like to thank parliament, in particular the rapporteur, christa klaß, and also the shadows for their constructive engagement with the council and the commission. this has resulted in a compromise text that provides an excellent basis for strengthening the internal market for biocidal products while at the same time ensuring a high level of protection for humans and the environment. the commission is also very happy with the pragmatic solutions that have been found for difficult issues, such as the scope of eu centralised procedure for products, the transitional arrangements for moving from existing directives to the new regulation and the rules for dealing with treated articles. throughout the negotiating process the commission has insisted on the need to ensure that the european chemicals agency in helsinki would have the necessary resources to carry out all the tasks it has been given under the regulation. these have been expanded considerably during the course of the negotiations. to this end, the commission has produced a revised financial statement, and i would like to take this opportunity to remind parliament of the need for the appropriate amounts to be included in the future budget allocations for the agency. i would also like to thank you in advance. while the commission is supportive of the compromise text and does not wish to stand in the way of its adoption, there are two important issues which it would like to draw to the attention of parliament. firstly, the commission considers that, to be consistent with the treaty, the regulation setting the fees to be paid to the chemical agency should be in the form of a delegated act rather than an implementing measure. the commission therefore informs parliament that it reserves its right to pursue the legal remedies provided by the treaty in order to seek clarification by the court of justice. secondly, in relation to the definition of nanomaterials, the commission believes that it would have been better to include a simple cross-reference to the recent commission recommendation on nanomaterials rather than to embed the definition in the text of the regulation itself. therefore the commission would like to emphasise that the approach taken in relation to the biocides regulation should not be understood as constituting a precedent for future cases. the commission will make declarations on these two issues, and it will also make a declaration on setting the level of the fee for applications for mutual recognition payable to the european chemicals agency. having said this, i would like to make it clear that we regard the compromise text to be voted on during this plenary as an excellent basis, both for strengthening the internal market for biocidal products and for ensuring a high level of protection for humans and the environment. this is the most important thing, is it not? this regulation strikes the right balance. it will ensure that we can develop safer products and use biocides efficiently to control the spread of harmful pests and germs, but it will also keep the most dangerous substances off the market, particularly those that cause cancer or fertility problems, and will also keep them out of the environment. thank you for your attention.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i join in the congratulations that have been sent to the rapporteur, mrs klass, as well as to the non-existent rapporteurs, the commission and the polish presidency, for the constructive work that has been done. the consumer will now be better informed. mrs ries was talking about the imported sofas from asian countries which contained fungicides, which you know had consequences for consumers, causing huge skin problems, significant erythema. it was absolutely necessary to inform the consumer that these were treated articles, which was not the case until now. it is essential for the green group to strengthen the substitution of highly dangerous active substances by strengthening the exclusion criteria, but also to limit derogations and introduce national safeguards for the modification of the conditions of use of product authorisations. and we welcome, commissioner, because of what you have said, the specific and detailed provisions obtained on nanomaterials. this is very important because we will be informed, there will be labelling, and it will be necessary, like nano-silver for example, that they be specifically authorized and evaluated separately, justification of the validity of the methods used for the supporting evaluation. the only drawback - and this has been said - is that parliament has lost the veto it had to approve the active substances. you'd think that's the price you'd pay for those advances.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in september 2010 parliament voted in favour of the report of the committee on agriculture on ensuring fair incomes for farmers. in doing so, it sent a clear signal to the european commission to restore the balance of power between farmers on the one hand and manufacturers and distributors on the other. the report i am presenting today completes the work we have started by analysing the upstream part of the agricultural sector. farmers sell their products but are also buyers or users of many inputs, the most important of which are fertilisers, seeds and fuel. these inputs are sold to them, as a rule, by large international companies operating in a highly concentrated, non-transparent and non-competitive environment. farmers also need land and water to work. on the one hand, farmers' bills are skyrocketing, while at the same time prices for their produce are stagnating or, in some cases, falling. the peasants are caught between a rock and a hard place. the report i am presenting to you today proposes concrete solutions to improve the economic situation of farms and farmers' incomes. farmers must be supported by new agricultural development structures which will enable them to face the challenges ahead, whether environmental, such as global warming, or economic, such as market distortions caused, for example, by speculation. the measures provided for in the reform of the cap, proposed by the commission and currently being discussed in parliament, can, if effectively implemented by the states, improve soil conservation, maintain agricultural biodiversity and reduce pollution of soil and groundwater. this agronomic development will reduce the amount of synthetic fertilisers and pesticides used. at the same time, farmers will be able to retain a larger share of the surplus value generated by their labour. the impact will be multiple. it will help to boost farmers' incomes, contribute to europe's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce pollution of our water resources. european agriculture consumes more energy than it produces. without oil, we are no longer able to feed ourselves. what a paradox! between 2000 and 2010, the price of fossil fuels increased by more than 60%, without farmers being able to pass this increase on to their products. we want the european union to invest heavily in energy-saving projects. these should be based on several proposals: improving agricultural practices by making them more autonomous; reducing transport between producers and consumers; facilitating the establishment of short marketing routes and supporting local seasonal consumption; strengthening the autonomous production of energy on farms; rebalancing animal and plant production at the level of coherent production basins, by promoting agronomic practices such as crop rotation and grazing. the cost of fertilisers, meanwhile, has doubled in the last ten years, while prices paid to farmers have increased by only 25%. however, effective agronomic practices, in particular crop rotation, can greatly reduce the use of these products and thus greatly reduce leaching, which pollutes groundwater, and the emission of nitrogen oxides. improved cropping techniques also lead to a reduction in pesticides and herbicides, by reducing the pressure of pests and weeds. waste and collected water is also a potential source of fertiliser, provided that adequate measures are taken to ensure the effective separation of potentially hazardous substances. but the dependence of the european union and farmers is not limited to oil and phosphates. every year, we import 50 million tons of animal feed. these purchases in world markets cost 20 billion dollars, which has a huge impact on our trade balance. we must reduce our dependence by 70% by launching a large european programme for the production of vegetable proteins: soybeans, lupins, beans, etc. the 30% increase in average seed prices since 2000 also affects farmers' incomes. this increase is due to the increasing price of certified seed, sold by an increasingly small number of large international companies. but it is also linked to the measures taken by a number of member states to limit the use of farm seed, which costs 40% less and is produced and used by farmers themselves. but farmers are also affected by the price of land and rents, which have skyrocketed in recent years. these phenomena are mainly linked to urban sprawl, land grabbing for the production of agrofuels and the race for expansion linked to the drift of the cap. the report calls for the establishment of a land price monitoring system and appropriate measures to facilitate access to land for young people and those wishing to develop an agricultural activity. finally, irrigation is essential in many areas of the european union where global warming is already being felt. concrete and rapid measures must be put in place to conserve and preserve this resource. this report is therefore very clearly in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which was set out at the beginning of the mandate, to offer a positive perspective to the european project in the face of the crises that threaten us. agriculture is the first integrated european policy. we must not leave the peasants on the side of the road today. there will be no europe without peasants!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank maria patrão neves for her excellent work. we welcome the general consensus that has emerged on this text. the subject matter was compelling. for years, the share of income that goes to farmers has been steadily decreasing. as the statistics show, this decline is not due to any one actor but is caused by the structural weight deficit suffered by producers within the food chain. this has already been said many times by many of us, but i do not know whether to rejoice or to worry. this has been said many times: producers must be allowed to weigh in the chain as accurately as possible and above all in proportion to their importance. the rules of competition must apply equally to all and must not lead to the profound imbalance we have already highlighted. the reality, of course, is far from that. this unequal treatment is largely due to the different application of eu rules by national competition authorities. as meps, we are on the ground, we are field agents and we can testify to the difficulties faced by many farmers or producer organisations when they want to join forces to confront processors, distributors and their own competitors. in particular, the definition of the relevant market varies from one member state to another in the case of a concentration. when producers want to group together to weigh heavier, some national competition authorities prevent them from doing so. they consider that the national market should not be subject to this concentration and the increased weight of this new organization. on the contrary, the opposite is the case in other member states. these groupings are allowed because the relevant market is the european market. their weight is then proportionally less important and their position is not considered to be dominant. it is clear that this situation is not sustainable. the commission and the court of justice, as guardians of community legality and the uniform application of the law, must ensure that these national authorities do not maintain producer organisations in a position of inferiority which affects their bargaining capacity.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, after my first speech, which was very long, and after this debate, which was also very long, and before i hear mr bové's words, my speech as a conclusion can be rather brief. after this tribute to the presidency, i speak in my own language, italian. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some points on the subject of prices. on the incorrect commercial practices, the commission is trying to promote a consensual approach between the parties and, i repeat, this approach corresponds to the principle of good legislation which we have already welcomed thanks to the work of this parliament with the corazza bildt report and in questo senso we believe we have obtained good concrete results in 2011. the commission and the high level forum on the food chain, as mentioned, will have to analyse the possible instruments for the application of the guidelines contained in the document you will receive. industry representatives are committed to participate in a further phase of the dialogue to prepare a proposal by mid-2012. as such, the commission will have to decide whether to insist on finding a solution through dialogue or to intervene with a legislative activity. the conclusion of the dialogue must certainly be made in a short time, it cannot be postponed indefinitely, and that is why, if there is no reasonable and genuine will to conclude, we will be forced to intervene, i will be forced, although i always prefer an agreement that does not intervene with a legislative action. late payment is another essential measure. i have said quanto è forte il mio impegno perché venga recepita in tempi rapidi prima del termine fissato fine march 2013 the directive on late payment, i have written, again, to all the ministers of industry of the european union. i would remind you that the directive sets deadlines not only between the public administration and the companies, but also between large companies and small and mediumsized enterprises, unless agreements between the parties are not harmful to small and mediumsized enterprises. i believe that this directive, which is an important part of the small business act, can really provide a solution to the problems of small businessmen in the agri-food chain. in reply to your question on the need to carry out an appropriate analysis of food prices in the union in order to monitor compliance with transparency, i would like to remind you of the important work of eurostat, the commission's statistical service, on the european price monitoring instrument. this tool is based on the essential cooperation between eurostat and the national statistical institutes and a specific working group in the high-level forum on the food chain. the commission also cooperates with other international organisations working in the same direction, such as the organisation for economic cooperation and development. however, in reason of the diversity of food markets in europe and the complexity of the factors influencing consumer prices, a detailed analysis of prices and margins at european level is not realistic. this should be carried out at national level, as is already the case in some member states, and that is why we are trying to develop synergies between national price observatories through the forum we have set up, by exchanging ideas and proposals, for example, on the methodologies used. as regards competition, which was the focus of a number of interventions during the debate, the commission has put forward legislative proposals to improve the transparency of the markets for raw materials, including agricultural products. in particular these proposals concern over-the-counter derivatives products, financial instrument markets, market abuse, as has been said, and as you well know these proposals are at the heart of the debate in parliament. there is one thing i want to ask parliament. proposals concerning derivatives products, markets and financial instruments, and market abuse are currently at the co-decision stage. i believe that this assembly can give a positive answer and can play a game of extraordinary importance. i meant the competition. the directorate-general works in close cooperation with the national authorities within the european competition network. these authorities are able to examine and sanction anticompetitive activities in their respective national markets and, over the last few years, many national authorities have carried out in-depth sectoral investigations in the agricultural and food sector. this has allowed the adoption of important sanctioning measures, many of which concern abuses against farmers. however, the commission will shortly publish a report on this subject and the european parliament will certainly be informed.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i think mr tajani will have noticed that when it comes to agriculture, the european parliament speaks with one voice. i think it's very important. the fact that my colleagues today, in parallel with the report i tabled on inputs, wanted to raise again, through a resolution, the question of the food chain and the fact that farmers were not taken into account and were still victims of either processing or mass distribution, at a time when the question of inputs is being discussed, shows that, since september 2010, when we adopted the report on the food chain, things have not changed fast enough. this is indeed a fundamental question that is being asked today. the basic issue is that the peasants are today strangled - as i said earlier - between the upstream and the downstream. today, the farmer is less and less autonomous in his choices: choice of production, choice of agricultural model, because he is completely blocked. so what we are asking you now is to put the farmer, the farmer, at the heart of european agricultural policy, through the cap, but also through very clear rules in terms of economy, protection against distribution and negotiating capacity with large-scale processing. i think that agreement is key. today you have seen that we speak with one voice, regardless of the political group to which we belong. today, for us, agriculture is a matter of the utmost importance! agriculture is the first integrated european policy, as i said earlier. the defence of the peasants must also be at the heart of the solution to the crisis today, because the question of agriculture is the question of feeding 500 million europeans! either we are able to feed our fellow citizens, or europe is no longer useful!
in writing. since the late 1990s, when food prices have risen by an average of 3.3% per year, the price actually received by farmers has increased by only 2.1%. to this must be added the increase in farm operating costs, which are rising by 3.6% a year. and the imbalance is further exacerbated by speculation in food commodities. this situation, which affects farmers as much as consumers, cannot continue. we must protect both producers and consumers, ensuring that the retail sector does not take the lion's share. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is our duty to stabilise the european food chain and to this end to rebalance the distribution of profits as a matter of urgency.
in writing. mr president, food waste is getting worse every year, while raw materials are becoming scarcer and malnutrition is spreading in europe. 89 million tonnes of food are thrown away each year (or 179 kg/year/person), most of which is healthy and edible. i think it is necessary to look into the causes of waste in order to reduce it. i believe that public awareness must be raised through campaigns at european and national level and, more specifically, through educational efforts in schools. a double expiry date, distinguishing between the sell-by date and the use-by date, would, for example, prevent foodstuffs from being lost. the introduction of this double label in commerce must nevertheless be accompanied by information for customers, who must know its meaning. i believe that the european union must therefore encourage the catering and wholesale distribution sectors to show solidarity and redistribute the unsold food that can still be consumed free of charge to food banks or to the most deprived people. if we do not react urgently to this situation, the european citizens will not understand!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have no doubt that the commission will take this written statement into account and thus allow the community to take account of this serious problem affecting our european coastline. we must develop a european action plan against the proliferation of parasitic algae through cooperation between member states. i thank all the signatories who have supported me, who have at any rate supported the insistence i have shown in this house for four sessions, here in strasbourg, where we are so well, ladies and gentlemen. in any case, i would like to thank in particular the colleagues who have supported me in this process, mr olejniczak for the socialists and democrats, mr tremopoulos for the green group and mr zanoni for the liberals. thank you all, my dear colleagues. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - after the adoption of this text, i think it is important to stress that the whole committee on agriculture and rural development has been working together and that, thanks to this collective work, we will be able to increase the pressure on the commission and the council a little more so that, finally, farmers in europe are taken into account, both in terms of their burdens and their incomes. i would therefore like to thank this house for this and also thank my colleagues who have enabled me to make this report, and in particular mr lorensen.
in writing. until now, the exemption from the airport transit visa (atv) requirement was not clear and that is why i voted in favour of this amendment to the 2009 regulation. the amendment is only a technical correction but it will reduce the administrative burden on member states and simplify the lives of individuals, european airports and airlines. it will mainly serve third-country nationals, who will now be exempt from vta if they have a visa from a member state of the european union, even if it is a country that is not part of the schengen area. as our rapporteur louis michel explains, the amendment is logical: it is useless to check again a person who is already in possession of a visa or a residence permit, since this person has already been checked before and in this capacity, has already been recognised as not posing a risk of illegal immigration .
in writing. the purpose of this report is to amend the visa code in part by making a technical correction to the provisions on airport transit visas. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the purpose of this report, which i voted in favour of, is to clarify the wording of part of regulation (ec) no 810/2009 establishing a community code on visas. this regulation of 13 december 2009 simplifies the airport transit of non-community nationals holding a valid residence permit or visa issued by a member state. this is a purely technical amendment which will make it easier to apply the exemption from the airport transit visa requirement.
in writing. i disagree with the overly restrictive conditions for granting short-stay visas and the existence of airport transits. the former involve disproportionate discrimination based on money, the latter discrimination based on country of origin. this is unacceptable. nevertheless, since this report technically favours increasing the number of exemptions from airport transit visas in the european texts, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which slightly modifies the existing community regulation on visas. the aim is to extend the visa exemption, particularly in the case of airport transit visas (vtas) as these often double the simple visa requirement. this technical change, which eliminates an administrative burden, has the merit of facilitating the only freedom of movement that the european union has difficulty in implementing: that of men. in these times of fortress europe, where only capital is free to move without control, i sincerely hope that this measure will help to solve the situation of a few thousand people.
in writing. since joining the wto in 2000, georgia has been steadily moving towards the european union. this agreement, which aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications, is a further sign of georgia's willingness to expand its trade relations with us. georgia is already a party to the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). it therefore recognises the concept of geographical indications for place names used to identify the origin and quality, reputation and other characteristics of products. the agreement covers agricultural products and foodstuffs from georgia and the european union and provides for the protection of the quality and origin of products from both partners. i can only support this initiative which diversifies the european union's trade relations while protecting our producers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which will help to protect our products from the land by recognising their characteristics and preserving their specificities.
in writing. my vote went to this agreement between the european union and georgia which makes it possible to make great progress in the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products or foodstuffs. the agreement contains an extensive list of mutually recognised indications. this agreement thus provides for greater protection of the great variety and quality of our local products, which are part of our identity and our wealth.
in writing. i vote for the protection of geographical indications of our products and products in general. my vote does not amount to approval of the free trade agreement concluded between the european union and georgia.
in writing. the european union is the country's main trading partner (almost 30% of its trade). i voted in favour of this agreement because, in view of the figures, it is important to ensure effective protection of our geographical indications in this country, which will be possible under the provisions of this agreement. they include a list of geographical indications recognised by both parties, guaranteeing legal certainty for operators, specific provisions for agricultural geographical indications and an objection procedure open to interested parties (producers, businesses). moreover, this is the first time that such an agreement has been concluded with one of the countries of the european neighbourhood policy. i supported this initiative in order to send a signal to the european commission that it must start and continue negotiations on this type of agreement with the other neighbourhood countries.
in writing. the world forum of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) aims to bring together the main vehicle manufacturing countries to harmonize standards on vehicle construction, types of parts used, etc. in this case, the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle was more specifically concerned. with my colleagues from the epp group, we voted in favour of this unece regulation which will pave the way for the application of the same standards in many countries, removing the administrative burdens. we have therefore authorised the european commission, as the european union's representative to the un economic and social council, to vote in favour of this regulation, which will strengthen the weight of our companies on the world market.
in writing. the regulation on the accession of the union to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle is a very good report. so i decided to support him.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on pedestrian safety and the draft regulation on light sources with light emitting diodes (leds). here again, the regulation is mainly aimed at removing administrative barriers and will enable european companies to be able to operate on global markets. we have therefore authorized the european commission, as europe's representative on the united nations economic commission for europe, to vote in favour of this regulation. finally, while we are seeing progress in road safety and trade, this text also has an environmental impact.
in writing. always committed to ensuring that an agreement is in conformity with european union law, i voted in favour of this agreement between the european union and indonesia as it allows for the correction of national designation clauses in bilateral agreements which had become, since a decision of the court of justice in 2002, contrary to european union law. in order to avoid discrimination between union air carriers, the national designation clauses are replaced by a union designation clause. as our rapporteur brian simpson has said, the aim is to allow all eu air carriers to have access to air links between the eu member states concerned and indonesia without discrimination. moreover, while traditional bilateral agreements tend to exempt international flights from fuel taxes, such taxation is permitted for operations carried out within the territory of the european union. the aim of the agreement is therefore to extend this right enjoyed by the member states of the union to indonesian airlines wishing to operate flights within the union.
in writing. this agreement, in line with other agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, will benefit our airlines by prohibiting any form of discrimination in access to the indonesian market.
in writing. this is a 'classic' agreement negotiated by the commission under its 'horizontal' mandate. the main objective of this agreement is to allow all eu air carriers to have access to air routes between the eu member states concerned and indonesia without discrimination. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. traditionally, international air relations with third countries have been governed by bilateral agreements, i.e. from one state to another. however, in 2002, the court of justice of the european communities censured the presence of national designation clauses in such agreements as it could lead to discrimination between carriers in the european union (eu). the agreement i voted for provides for the replacement of national designation clauses by an eu designation clause. the eu air carriers will now have access to the indonesian market without risk of discrimination.
in writing. in the light of previous disagreements with icao, due to the confrontation between the european union and airlines opposed to the inclusion of aviation in the eu ets from 1 january 2012, it seems to me necessary for the eu to work with the international community. it is essential to reach an international agreement to take account of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from air transport. i therefore voted in favour of this cooperation protocol so that the european union can make its expertise and resources available to icao in general. it is essential that the european union has a say in negotiations with the international community on civil aviation, and in particular on sustainable development issues.
in writing. i voted in favour of this protocol because european law now takes account of most of the icao standards and requirements for international aviation. the european union therefore has a strong interest in contributing to the icao decision-making process if it is to protect the competitiveness of its own civil aviation industry, a key sector of economic activity and development in the midi-pyrénées region.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the union and the international civil aviation organisation (icao), in particular through the exchange of experts and the establishment of programmes. the idea is to eventually achieve upward harmonisation of aviation safety and security standards. i have no difficulty with this report, so i voted in favour.
in writing. under rule 81 of its rules of procedure, the european parliament has the right to give its consent to the conclusion of a cooperation protocol of the european union (eu). i voted in favour of the protocol which aims to strengthen relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). it is essential that the european union participates in the decision-making process within icao in order to protect the competitiveness of its own industry.
in writing. as a guarantor of the mobility, safety and security of its citizens, it is essential that the european union is more involved in the international regulatory process in the field of civil aviation. the international civil aviation organization, a specialized agency of the united nations, is a privileged forum for decision-making and influence. sitting as a european entity, not as a group of member states, will accompany our efforts and accelerate our project for a single european sky. that is why i voted in favour of the cooperation protocol between the eu and icao. since these decisions have a direct effect on our community legislation, it is imperative that we ensure that they are consistent with our policy guidelines and ethical considerations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the first of which is our vision for a sustainable development of civil aviation.
in writing. the european parliament paves the way for the revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive, which will allow consumers to return small equipment to retailers free of charge without the obligation to make a new purchase. through my vote, i campaigned for better collection and recycling of weee. i support this agreement based on ambitious but achievable objectives. this directive strengthens the selective collection objectives, broadens the scope and imposes new take-back and treatment obligations on producers and retailers. it is a big step for the environment and for the consumer. the annual collection target of 4 kg per capita per member state shall be transformed into a collection level of 45% of weee placed on the market in the previous three years collected by 2016 and 65% in 2019. finally, the directive, while reducing the administrative burden on producers, who are financially responsible for waste management, changes the definition of producer to cover any entity placing equipment on the market.
in writing. we are now seeing all the limitations of our "short-termist" societies, which are also breathless, where hyperconsumption and disposable are king: the issue of waste treatment, recycling but also the obsolescence of everyday consumer products are at the heart of the problems we have to manage within our societies. the directive we are adopting today concerns waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). each european citizen generates an average of 17 to 20 kg of electronic waste per year! the target is situational: the directive requires each member state to increase its collection of weee, regardless of whether or not it already meets the 4 kg per person per year target. this directive is positive for european consumers, who will now be able to return small items to retailers and businesses without the obligation to buy a new product. this directive represents a new step forward for the recycling and treatment of weee in europe. i very much welcome stricter controls on illegal shipments of weee to third countries, to prevent the treatment of weee from endangering workers.
in writing. after tough negotiations with the council, parliament can be satisfied with the ambitious targets it has just set for the whole of the european union in the area of electronic waste collection. from 2016, most member states will have to collect 45 tonnes of electronic waste for every 100 tonnes of electronic products placed on the market in the previous three years. the adoption of this agreement is all the more important as it is part of a necessary and urgent european strategy for the supply of raw materials and rare earths. only investment in recycling techniques and better collection of electronic waste will enable the european union to reduce its dependence on china, which has 95% of the raw materials needed for new technologies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which sets more ambitious targets for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. these wastes, some of whose components can become toxic, require special treatment to ensure that they are completely safe. this text will also make it easier for our citizens to dispose of their equipment that is no longer in use, without incurring additional costs.
in writing. every year, 8.7 million tonnes of waste electrical and electronic equipment are dumped in the european union, but only 25% of this waste is collected and treated. it is not unusual to find in this type of waste components which are particularly dangerous to health and the environment, and this situation calls for a change in the practices currently in force in our member states. it is in this context that i have voted in favour of the compromise reached after many years of negotiations, which sets a target of 85% of waste to be collected by 2019. thus, despite the opposition of some companies complaining of a heavy burden, it is expected that large distributors will have to set up collection points for used phones and other small appliances to encourage consumers to recycle. a new obligation will also be introduced to prevent european companies from sending potentially dangerous goods outside the eu. finally, another advantage: the recycling of precious metals such as gold, silver and rare earths contained in these used products, which will reduce our dependence on foreign supplies for these materials.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on electronic waste and electronic equipment, which seals the agreement reached with the council of the european union at second reading. the aim of this revision is to improve the operation of the waste collection and treatment chain. thanks to this directive and the efforts made by the member states, the collection of waste will have to amount to 45% of the average weight of equipment sold in the territories of the member states each year. these efforts will have to be increased to 65% within four years of the entry into force of the text. the directive will also have an impact on people's daily lives, as it provides for the mandatory installation of collection points for small waste in shops selling electrical and electronic equipment. this measure, however, protects small businesses which will not be obliged to have a collection point on their premises, provided that a similar system is in their immediate vicinity.
in writing. combining new, more stringent objectives, flexibility, encouragement of the reuse of equipment and the obligation to have collection points for small waste, the florenz report is balanced. i have therefore chosen to support the agreement reached at second reading.
in writing. the report proposes to set a separate collection target of 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment by 2016. it insists that stringent ecodesign rules be set by the end of 2013 at the latest. it calls for the possibility of selective treatment of weee containing nanomaterials to be assessed. i am therefore in favour of this report, although i deplore its obsession with respect for the sacred and holy principle of free competition.
in writing. in europe, 9.3 million pieces of electrical and electronic equipment are sold each year. refrigerators, ovens, washing machines, irons, televisions, computers, telephones, compact fluorescent lamps - all these products are waste that we will have to recycle one day. it is estimated that in 2005 more than eight million tonnes of electronic waste were produced in europe, or 20 kg per capita. this total is expected to rise to 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. the european union had to fill the regulatory gaps that prevented a real management of this waste, in terms of collection, reprocessing, recycling or combating its illegal export. the collection rate of electrical and electronic waste in eu countries will have to reach 45% of the volumes placed on the market within four years and 65% within seven years. the directive also provides for: a reinforcement of the extended producer responsibility, an increase in the collection targets for household and professional weee, an increase in the recycling targets and a reduction in the administrative burden for businesses. i therefore support this new step towards an environmentally friendly and resource-efficient economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which recasts a 2008 directive to set more ambitious targets for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). this directive, although insufficient in itself, is a step in the right direction towards the objective of an ecological transformation of our society. it is based on a triple choice: to produce sustainable equipment, to reuse as much as possible the materials of end-of-life products, and to involve local actors in this recycling. the directive still needs to be implemented on the basis of specific criteria such as: the creation of 'convenient facilities, including public collection points, where households can deposit their waste at least free of charge'; the implementation by the member states of a minimum collection of 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment; the provision by producers, free of charge, for each type of new eee placed on the market and within one year of the equipment being placed on the market, of information on preparation for re-use and treatment. the ecological transition also involves this type of policy choice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market, which provides for stricter controls to ensure that products do not pose a threat to humans, animals and the environment. as part of my involvement as a member of the envi commission, i supported the work of my colleague christa klass. it seemed to me that it was basic to regulate the marketing of dangerous substances, and even to ban those which are carcinogenic, affect genes or hormones, or are toxic to reproduction. under the precautionary principle, authorisation procedures will be simplified, allowing consumers to have access to safer and more effective plant protection products. this is a significant improvement on the current legislation as it provides industry with a more efficient and reliable authorisation system, both in terms of requirements and procedures, resulting in uniform safety assessments. finally, in addition to the objective of harmonising standards, measures are being taken to facilitate mutual recognition of approvals between member states.
in writing. biocides are used in all aspects of our daily lives and are designed to kill harmful organisms such as bacteria or microbes. these substances, however effective, are dangerous to human health and the environment. we adopted a regulation last wednesday by a very large majority which harmonises the european market for biocidal products and sets new deadlines for the evaluation of applications in order to better protect human health and the environment. it includes, for the first time, specific and comprehensive provisions on nanomaterials. it was urgent and necessary to fill this gap in european legislation. commercially sold articles treated with biocides will therefore have to mention all the products used on their label. substances considered to be carcinogenic or to affect genes, reproduction or hormones will be strictly prohibited in order to protect citizens and to encourage industry to innovate by developing new and safer products. however, we must remain vigilant about new authorizations and renewals of granted exemptions: states will be able to make an exception in cases of absolute necessity... the regulation is a further step towards a more sustainable economy that respects consumers.
in writing. biocidal legislation has just been updated to give europeans access to new, safer and more effective plant protection products. thus treated products - such as furniture treated with fungicides or kitchen countertops treated with antibacterials - will be subject to these rules and will have to be labelled accordingly. for products containing nanomaterials, separate safety checks and labels will be provided to inform about their presence and possible risks. the adoption of this text shows how our knowledge of the environment and plant protection products is constantly evolving and therefore requires the regular review of european texts by the european parliament to ensure the placing on the market of products that are increasingly safe for our citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which regulates the use of products dangerous to human health. the reciprocity clause will guarantee our fellow citizens that imported products will be subject to the same rules as community products and will meet european health and safety requirements.
in writing. the use of biocides is a major problem, since consumer protection and environmental protection are among the issues involved. i welcome the adoption of the text for which i voted. the aim of this is to correct the weaknesses of directive 98/8/ec of 16 february 1996 on the use of biocidal products. the new text thus makes it possible to increase the health requirements not only in the production of biocides but also in their use. it also brings about a welcome harmonisation of existing rules which considerably increases consumer safety and environmental protection and eliminates distortions of competition within the internal market. finally, the text contains a liability clause under which imported products will be subject to the same health requirements as community products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to regulate the disposal of biocidal products, that is to say all products which are used in one way or another to eliminate organisms harmful to humans. the report seeks to strike a balance between the use of such products where they can improve human health and the fight against their negative effects on the environment or health. in the medium term, all these products will have to go through three stages of evaluation to determine whether or not they are dangerous (in particular, carcinogenic or harmful to the endocrine system) before being validated by the european chemicals agency and placed on the market. the protection of the environment and the improvement of our health are two of the main themes of this text. let us hope once again that it will be more than just nice words.
in writing. my epp colleagues and i voted in favour of the resolution on imbalances in the food supply chain , which was adopted by a general consensus. the european parliament, through this ambitious text, calls on the european and national authorities involved in production and trade to take action against abusive purchasing practices by dominant wholesalers and retail distributors. specifically, for the competitiveness of european agriculture, it was essential to talk about the increase in the prices of agricultural inputs purchased over the last ten years in areas such as energy, equipment, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water. the aim is therefore to avoid distortions of competition and, by solving the problems upstream of agricultural production, to improve farmers' incomes. the overall aim is to have a better distribution policy, to ensure that all products have the same quality standards within the eu and to allow producers to weigh in on the food chain. finally, through this text, i support the european union's substantial investment in projects that promote sustainable agriculture.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will help our farmers to reduce their production costs and increase their incomes. ensuring the future of the agricultural sector is essential to guaranteeing an independent european supply.
in writing. this own-initiative report highlights the problems at the upstream end of agricultural production and focuses on the increase in prices of agricultural inputs over the last decade in areas such as energy, equipment, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report recommends measures to support more efficient resource management, short food and input chains and protein cropping in europe. it denounced the abusive margins of large retailers and the abuse of a dominant position by certain suppliers of inputs and called for sanctions. it is concerned that consumers are being led to consume products of inferior quality because of their low purchasing power. so many concerns and recommendations that i share. i cannot, however, approve of the support for soybean imports which this text expresses. i cannot even accept public measures to support biofuels, the demand for agriculture to be 'competitive on the world market' and the doubling of the g20 or the europe 2020 strategy that it contains. i'm not going to do it out of respect for josé bové.
in writing. this report is the result of an initiative by the european parliament to try to reorient certain policies in the face of imbalances in the distribution chain of agricultural products, in particular cereal raw materials and fossil fuels (called inputs). the existence of a largely unfavourable balance of power between distributors and farmers is no longer to be demonstrated. it condemns many of the latter to poverty by no longer allowing them to live with dignity in their work. the text therefore calls for a rebalancing of the balance and the promotion of sustainable agriculture which respects the environment through limited imports and use of these inputs. the emphasis is also on training farmers and agronomists and on technical progress in order to promote food sovereignty in the european union and to better protect europeans against food shortages. i have no illusions about the actual consideration of this report by the european institutions, but i believe it is moving in the right direction: that of social justice and the ecological transition.
in writing. many farmers have seen their production costs increase excessively, without the price paid by buyers, in particular large retailers, being able to compensate for these additional costs, which puts many farms and, in the longer term, all agricultural production at risk. that is why i supported the joint resolution on food supply chain imbalances, because i believe it is essential to ensure fair and transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors of food products. the abusive practices of the distributors, which place our farmers in a position of extreme inferiority, must be denounced. we also need to improve the respect of payment deadlines by producers, monitor price developments more closely and transparently, and finally set up a food trade ombudsman to share information more effectively between the competent authorities in this field.
in writing. the european parliament, almost unanimously, agreed on a resolution denouncing the imbalances in the food supply chain (from the farmer to the consumer) and proposing ways to remedy them. the european parliament sets several objectives: the promotion of environmentally friendly production and distribution; transparency of the rights of each actor, particularly as regards purchase prices at the various stages of the chain; the fight against abusive and illegal commercial practices, particularly by agri-food wholesalers in the face of the multitude of small and medium-sized agricultural structures. as with the bové report, the aim is to defend the agricultural sector by allowing farmers to produce in a way which respects the environment and to make a living from it, and by facilitating access for consumers to all the necessary information. i regret, however, that the european parliament has refused to go further and rejected all the gue/ngl amendments, for example on the prohibition of dumping and selling at a loss or on a ceiling on the percentage of profit margins for distributors.
in writing. my colleagues and i voted for the european earth observation programme gmes (global monitoring for environment and security) to be financed from the community budget. at the moment, this is the case, but for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the european commission proposes that the continuation of this programme be financed on the basis of an intergovernmental agreement, outside the community budget. however, space policy is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy and we believe that the galileo project, the world's first satellite navigation system designed for civilian purposes and which will provide a viable alternative to the us gps system, cannot be funded without the gmes programme. it should be recalled that gmes is a state-of-the-art tool for environmental information, which will help to meet the environmental challenges of the 21st century, and that it is essential to continue its funding.
in writing. the european union is a world leader in high-tech products, research and aeronautics. it is therefore essential that the gmes programme, a tool for earth observation to combat climate change and environmental degradation, be included in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and that galileo be able to benefit from long-term funding. the european parliament does not intend to let the european commission financially disengage the eu, even though the gmes programme is essential for european citizens, as it will make it possible to anticipate storms, floods and land pollution better and to provide rapid relief to populations affected by a natural disaster. the european commission must deliver on its commitments to research and innovation under the eu 2020 strategy if the european union is to remain competitive.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls the need for a coherent and clear eu space policy at the service of the citizens. it aims to ensure the development of the space sector as a springboard for the development of science, technology and european competitiveness. this report highlights the importance of the flagship projects galileo and gmes, and in particular the need to include gmes funding in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. it stressed the strategic importance of the space sector for security and defence, as a guarantee of the union's independence. it works to ensure that the space sector has real economic benefits for citizens, industries and services, and for the eu's place in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in order to maintain an ambitious european space policy. it will enable the european union to reaffirm its support for the flagship projects of our industrial policy (galileo, gmes), whose sustainable financing is being questioned by the european commission. the union's withdrawal from these programmes would directly threaten the interests of our region and the future of the toulouse space industry.
in writing. taking an interest in space, developing an ambitious and comprehensive space policy, is to give ourselves future prospects, it is to contribute to the growth of our economies in the long term. all the efforts made in research and innovation, all the efforts made in good governance are indeed important but well thought-out investments. citizens are not always well aware of the impact of space policies on their daily lives. however, all these investments have specific objectives: for example, to have the means to anticipate natural disasters (storms, floods, etc.) and thus to combat the consequences of climate change more effectively. it also involves improving the security of our territories by strengthening border surveillance through the satellite observation programme (gmes). space policy must be a european priority. but it is also by engaging in dialogue with our partners (the united states, japan, russia) and developing cooperation based on reciprocity that we europeans will reap the fruits of such an investment.
in writing. this is a good report which advocates a comprehensive space policy for the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders. i supported that report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which underlines how essential space activities and applications are to the economic growth and development of the european union. i fully support the european commission's policy of strengthening space infrastructure and increasing efforts to support research. however, it seems essential to integrate the european gps project galileo and the earth monitoring programme gmes into the european space strategy. in this sense, the european commission must participate in their financing.
in writing. space policy is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and competitiveness for europe. the aerospace industry is based on a smart and responsive economy, generating highly skilled jobs. it is a way of positioning europe in the world as a continent at the cutting edge of technology, an innovative and independent leader. but space policy is also linked to the well-being and safety of citizens. in this sense, a genuine and well-thought-out european policy is needed. galileo is a european achievement which we must continue to develop and fully exploit. it is also a question of identifying the potentials, risks and costs of the different technical options. supporting an ambitious space policy is a key strategic choice. we must continue along this path.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to halve food waste by 2025 and to avoid food waste. it is a global problem that must become a priority on the european political agenda, and we need concrete measures and strategies to do so. for example, the european parliament has called on the european commission to encourage measures to reduce upstream food waste, such as promotional sales of damaged or expired products, etc. parliament also called for new awareness campaigns and food education courses in schools. finally, the resolution calls on the commission to amend the rules for awarding public contracts for catering and hotel services so as to give preference in the award of contracts to firms which guarantee free redistribution of unsold goods to citizens without purchasing power. the european aid to the most deprived programme is helping 13 million people in need and food waste must therefore not only be reduced but also used to benefit those 13 million europeans who are in dire need of it.
in writing. nearly 50 per cent of healthy food is wasted every year, whether by households, supermarkets, restaurants or industry. the evidence is clear: 79 million european citizens live below the poverty line and are often dependent on food aid. that is truly revolting! especially since food waste in the eu is estimated at 89 million tonnes per year (or 179 kg per capita), which is considerable. if nothing is done, food waste will increase by almost 40 percent by 2020. this own-initiative report, which i supported, offers good ways of changing the situation. the goal is to halve food waste by 2025 and thus improve access to food for the poor. to achieve this massive reduction, new awareness campaigns will have to be developed, accompanied by food education courses in schools, and a double expiry date could be introduced to indicate the sell-by date and the consume-by date. action is needed to reduce food waste in the eu, and this is our economic and social responsibility, as well as our environmental responsibility.
in writing. a coordinated community strategy will be needed to combat food waste in order to meet the needs of the 79 million citizens living below the poverty line and the 16 million who depend on food aid from charities. that is why my colleagues and i are calling for urgent action to halve food waste by 2025 and improve access to food for the poor. the future of the eafrd has been threatened for several months, and initiatives by some member states to recover unsold food must be encouraged, and distributors must also be involved in these programmes. however, food waste is not limited to developed countries. developing countries are also affected, as they are forced to throw away tons of food because of inadequate storage facilities in the production and distribution chains. we can and must provide them with our material support and know-how to prevent the loss of vital food in certain parts of the world. solidarity must not stop at the frontiers of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is time for the european union to set itself ambitious targets to reduce food waste, which is scandalous from an ethical, economic and environmental point of view. with 13 million people in europe receiving food aid and with some member states threatening to end the european programme for the poorest, it is important to control waste and reallocate the food stocks available to help the poorest of our citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague mr caronna, calling on the european union to adopt a strategy to end food waste. we must urgently address this situation where we waste almost 50% of our food every year while 79 million citizens live below the poverty line. so i support this initiative which proposes to improve education, to change the labelling and packaging of products but also to help responsible catering services which promote local products and which redistribute unsold food to food banks free of charge. the fight against food waste is not only an economic but also a social and public health issue.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's initiative, which should make us and, beyond that, the citizens, aware of a growing and worrying problem, food waste. the report says so. waste is an ethical, environmental and economic problem, even as many international forums are debating how to secure and secure the world's food supply and as part of the world's population suffers from limited access to food. waste occurs throughout the food chain, from production to consumption. the report also identifies five sectors: agricultural production, management and storage, processing, distribution and consumption. this waste represents an environmental cost, as the production of unconsumed surplus food requires the use of energy and natural resources, and generates costs related to the treatment and disposal of this waste. according to a study commissioned by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao), between 95 and 115 kilograms of food is wasted per person per year in europe and north america. in contrast, it would be 6 to 11 kg for people in sub-saharan africa.
in writing. food waste is a global problem, affecting every link in the food chain, from the field to the consumer's plate. the report identifies the causes of waste and points to many malfunctions, such as waste in the later stages of the food chain in industrialized countries due to an overabundance of food produced. conversely, the report shows that waste in developing countries is in the early stages, due to the lack of advanced agricultural techniques, efficient transport systems and infrastructure. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it highlights a theme of growing importance, as more and more healthy and edible food is being wasted throughout the agri-food chain in europe. we are also aware that 79 million people live below the poverty line and 16 million depend on food aid from charities. we therefore call for action at european level to reduce food waste. first of all, in order to establish a coordinated strategy, we call on the commission to analyse the whole food chain, to identify the sectors where there is the most waste and to provide targeted solutions.
in writing. this report is a good start. he half-heartedly denounces the rules that prevail in the food industry (calibration of food, discarding unsold food while it is still edible). it advocates the application of the polluter pays principle in this sector. it stresses the importance of short circuits and urges the states to support local production on a small and medium scale. it even calls for quantified targets for preventing food waste by 2014. these are all good ideas and it is regrettable that this text is purely declarative and does not propose anything binding. i vote for it.
in writing. in these times of global economic crisis and famine in the horn of africa, it is deeply disturbing to imagine that 1.3 billion tonnes of food can be lost or destroyed every year worldwide. the first and by far the most worrying impact of waste is humanitarian: despite producing enough food to feed the world's population, 25,000 people die every day from chronic malnutrition. food waste occurs at all stages of the food chain, from harvest to consumption. the environmental impact of these malfunctions is increased and affects both fisheries and energy resources and waste management. we have the instruments to develop and implement an effective policy to reduce food waste. i remain convinced that a european information and awareness campaign on this subject should be carried out so that everyone can act on his own.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on monday 25 member states took their responsibilities upon themselves by agreeing to sign the budgetary treaty. they have decided to tackle the fiscal laxity which is depriving us of the room for manoeuvre needed to get back to growth and employment. they have shown their ability to find european solutions to european problems, even if two member states have chosen to play it alone, which they will themselves regret. i have, at this point, three wishes. the first is that the treaty should be ratified as soon as possible, the second is that it should be applied as soon as possible and the third is that this agreement should be fully incorporated into union law, as this parliament has asked for. ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is forcing us to rethink our bad habits. it requires us to respect the obvious but so difficult to apply rules of budgetary balance. we have an obligation to reduce national deficits, which often also hide regional and local deficits. but the decision on the treaty is as precise and positive as the one on growth leaves me hungry. because fighting deficits and restoring growth are two sides of the same coin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. there are two ways of restoring growth, one artificial and one-off, the other structural and therefore sustainable. the first is to stimulate the economy through expenditure. we've been doing that for years, and we've seen where it's gotten us. in addition, today spending is effectively limited, because it is time to pay off debts, not to borrow. the second method, which is advocated by the epp, is to make our economy more competitive. this can already be done, mr barroso, by completing the internal market. all the laws, all the bills were passed a long time ago. the problem, again, is that they are not enforced. i therefore ask the commission to make it known as soon as possible who is not applying these rules and to fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties by forcing those who do not to apply them - perhaps france too, my dear friend, i am no exception. every european must know which state is playing the game of the internal market, and which is holding it back or blocking it. increasing our competitiveness can also be done by reducing the burden on entrepreneurs and by reducing the considerable differences in burdens between our countries, which are detrimental to competitiveness. this can also be done by optimising the return of hitherto unused european funds returned to states. the time has come to make better use of this 'important' surplus by investing it in common projects that generate growth and jobs. finally, growth and job creation can be encouraged by redirecting non-investment-generating public funds towards research and innovation or towards training. with a quarter of young people looking for work, we have an obligation to provide them with the opportunity to acquire sound skills and to reorient them throughout the community.
mr president, i will not engage in political politics - i want to reassure mr reul - because i think that this treaty is setting us up for failure and i deeply regret that. i regret it because it is ineffective in responding to the market in the face of the crisis because it does not restore confidence. we are also looking at the problems of greece and portugal. we see two countries, which are the biggest contributors to our budget, france and germany, halving their growth rate. we believe that the drafting of this treaty should have settled the matter and reassured everyone, including the population. in reality, it was the ecb's action, which put 500 billion in liquidity at the disposal of the banks, which had a positive effect. but we in this parliament must realise that we must be consistent. we are mandated by our constituents; and our voters are the over-indebted pensioners, the wage-earners who have marched in the streets of brussels, the unemployed who are waiting for work, the young who want to have a future. we cannot simply criticize a treaty which is focused solely on budgetary discipline, on sanctions, and which, worse, introduces a government of judges at the expense of the sovereignty of the national parliaments. we in the european parliament should protest against these results and make proposals. i have some proposals for you. it's not just about condemning. i believe, mr president, that what we can propose today for europe is a virtuous circle, a european pact of responsibility, governance and growth. we must renegotiate this treaty on a basis which will allow for a real coordination of economic policies, including industrial projects to make our factories and our workers work, energy and environmental projects, the creation of eurobonds, which have unfortunately been forgotten or ignored, and financial regulation. we need justice, we need solidarity. that is what we must defend in this parliament.
mr president, i wanted to express the support of the french delegation of the epp group for the treaty on european economic stability, coordination and governance and the main conclusions reached by the council. let us not be mistaken. this treaty represents an important step towards greater economic and budgetary integration and greater financial stability. let's get him back here. there can be no sustainable recovery of growth and employment without a clean-up of our public finances. of course, growth is not decreed; it is not a treaty that can, on its own, revive growth. but a treaty, a set of mutual rules and commitments, can bring about trust and accountability. as the chairman of the socialist group has thought it appropriate to introduce political politics into this house, by alluding to the forthcoming french presidential campaign and by mentioning the socialist candidate in this french presidential election, i wanted to respond. we in the epp regard as totally irresponsible the statements made by the french socialist candidate who said that he wanted to renegotiate the treaty concluded at the 25th. renegotiate what and with whom? those are totally irresponsible words. they pay little attention to the word of the french state, to the respect of the commitments of the french state.
in writing. the council has approved, without any consultation of the european parliament or the national parliaments, the introduction of a new treaty making budgetary austerity the foundation of european economic policy. this is a denial of democracy, all the more unacceptable since the budgetary thresholds which would be imposed are totally new and have never been mentioned in any of the european treaties before. the treaty also constitutes an unprecedented interference in national constitutions, with the obligation on national constitutions to include an instrument to curb public expenditure. this new treaty also includes the euro plus pact, which is a dismantling of social rights. we demand that before any decision is taken, the european peoples should be consulted by referendum.
in writing. the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union is a necessary step forward. in the present crisis, fiscal stability is an imperative which we cannot afford to ignore. clear and precise rules were needed to ensure compliance with the treaty. it is certainly regrettable that the treaty has not been supported by all the member states. however, the final version adopted is to be welcomed. significant progress is expected, such as formal recognition of the golden rule, reversed qualified majority voting or the intervention of the court of justice of the european union. the final text has also been made more consistent with european law, in particular the six-pack which came into force last december. finally, we must not forget the difficulty of the european negotiations: to be able to agree on such a text in such a short time is a real success. above all, this new treaty shows a clear political will: it promotes responsible economic governance.
in writing. like all french socialist members, i abstained in the vote on the council's agreement to the draft intergovernmental treaty adopted by the heads of state on 30 january. the agreement is not only legally questionable, because it flouts the role of parliament, but also harmful, because the budgetary restraint imposed will not solve the crisis, but on the contrary can only worsen the recession! the renegotiation we are asking for is the logical consequence of this. we must create growth to get out of this crisis: it is an economic necessity, and the dogmatic vision imposed by the sarkozy-merkel couple is not appropriate. we must restart a virtuous spiral by coordinating our economic policies with major joint industrial projects, particularly in the fields of energy, the environment and the revival of major infrastructures. this can only be achieved by the creation of eurobonds, which are totally absent from this text, and by a real regulation of the financial markets, which we have been calling for for a long time. the obsession of sarkozy and merkel with a strict austerity line is becoming dangerous for the whole of europe.
madam high representative, madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world and is experiencing a political crisis which will be resolved by the implementation of the road map leading to the presidential and parliamentary elections. the growth of this country is negative. normally, our contribution is about 50% of the country's budget. the european union has rightly suspended its budgetary support for the national indicative programmes (nips) of the 9th and 10th edfs but not for the mdgs. meanwhile, the population suffers and companies based in madagascar are sometimes forced to contribute despite themselves. while we support your position, we hope that you will do all you can with sadc to ensure that the legal and judicial impasse concerning the return of the former president is resolved as soon as possible, as this is one of the most sensitive aspects of the implementation of this road map. i would like to ask your opinion on this matter and also to inform you that the eu-madagascar friendship group, which we have just set up in the european parliament, is available to work with you and the commission in the interests of the malagasy people and in defence of the values of our union.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i think that the approach that we have taken is one i would describe as ratcheting up the sanctions. it is important when we impose them to make sure that they are effective and, as you know, to be careful that we look for ways that they are being evaded by countries. we began with sanctions from the eu. we have ratcheted these up and continue to look at them. for the timeframe, i think we have to go back to the security council. the work that i do in discussion and negotiation with iran is determined by the security council who have given us this task. the message that i have sent to iran through every interlocutor that i have met – and i travel a great deal and i talk about iran a great deal – is to say: you tell me you agree with the way i have tried to carry out these negotiations, but there is a limit to how long that approach will work before the security council will want to discuss it again. i mean nothing more than that. i am not hinting at anything. i am not suggesting anything. i merely say that the security council will want to reflect on whether iran has responded to all the sanctions that have been put on it.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − indeed, ms gomes, there is going to be a démarche by the delegations and the hungarian ambassador will probably do it on our behalf in libya. there was a meeting on sunday of heads of mission in tripoli. it was decided that there would be a démarche. we have made clear to the libyan authorities our view of this visit for all the reasons that you know well, and i expect the démarche to happen very soon.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i am delighted that the prime minister of tunisia has chosen, on his first visit outside the country, to come to brussels and that he will be here tomorrow. it is not an accident. it is because of the work that we have done, particularly through our delegation, to whom i pay tribute, but also because of the taskforce we set up, which enabled us to bring together economics and politics. with business leaders, the european investment bank, the ebrd, the african development bank, the world bank, with members of this house, with others from different institutions such as the commission and so on, we were able to pull together a package of support for tunisia that was about democracy – deep democracy, not elections just once, but continuing – and economic support and growth. i am very pleased that he will be here tomorrow. in jordan we are about to do the same. we have a taskforce in february where we will pull this together in order to support the changes. i will be very pleased that representatives of this house will be with me to do that.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − we are watching this case very closely and we are talking with our colleagues in sweden about it. you know that the legal process is now finished and that the two swedish gentlemen are now looking to find a way that this can be settled within the framework of ethiopian law. you will understand that there is a lot of work going on, but i am not at liberty to elaborate on the talks that are being conducted at the present time. i am sure that we can perhaps talk to you privately a little more about that; this is only for their benefit, not for any other reason. the african union summit took place and mr piebalgs was due to be there. i know he was ill; i do not know if he made it for part of the summit. for me, our managing director, mr westcott, was there to ensure that we were fully represented at the meeting. i do not know whether there were specific talks on this topic. as you know, it was a summit which featured some quite difficult discussions on a number of subjects, but we will certainly find you the answer to that question.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − a number of remarks have been made, but there is no public position from turkey. i can reassure the house that my relations with ahmet davutoğlu, the foreign minister of turkey, on issues of foreign policy and concern are very strong and will continue throughout the course of this year, and in a sense throughout all the presidencies in my time in office. i think what is important is that we continue to support all the efforts that are being made to try to resolve the issue for cyprus, and that we work closely with our cypriot colleagues and members of this house – and in the european council and foreign affairs council and elsewhere – to try to seek such a solution, of course with the un in the lead, which is so vital. so we will continue on that course throughout the presidency.
madam high representative, i would like to speak to you about kazakhstan. do you know that the massive strike of oil workers launched last may in the province of mangustau resulted in a brutal crackdown and the arrest of union members and their lawyer? on december 16th, a peaceful protest in zhanaozen ended in bloodshed. there are reports of many wounded, at least fifteen dead, arrests, ill-treatment, torture, rape. the parliamentary elections of 15 january were described by observers as unfree and undemocratic. finally, human rights defenders and opposition party activists who were recently invited to speak to members of our parliament have been arrested on their return and face long prison sentences. the european union's silence in the face of this authoritarian and repressive drift is unacceptable. how do you intend to react, madam high representative, to what i have just said?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, at european level, sport, like many other activities, especially associative ones, has long been seen only from the point of view of competition and as a simple economic activity. the report also recognizes that sport, and more generally physical and sporting activities, have educational, cultural, health and social, in other words societal, dimensions. it stresses the role of volunteers and the importance of studying the feasibility of a suitable legal and fiscal framework. how can we not be pleased? the importance of development, and therefore investment, in mass sport is emphasised, as is the necessary redistribution between professional and mass sport. we would like to stress the importance of public funding, the only way to guarantee equal access without discrimination, and the need for a real partnership with the sports movement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the report. some regret, however, that the regulatory role of the states is insufficient in view of the deviations in this sector. one example is online gambling and sports betting. we had made a proposal reaffirming the need for a state monopoly in this area, in accordance with the judgment of the ecj of 8 september 2009. unfortunately, that was not taken up. we would also have liked to see more encouragement for the states to guarantee the economic and social rights of sportsmen, particularly in the field of training and the right to professional retraining. but words are not enough. we need action to put the internal market and competition back in their proper place, and to recognise physical activity and sport for what they are, that is to say, a formidable tool for individual and collective emancipation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to commend the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz angulo, for the quality of his work, for the long negotiating work he has had to carry out and for the patience he has shown. finally, we come to the vote on this report, which is extremely important because it allows us to bring to the attention of this house, the commission and the council, the difficulties and fears of our fellow citizens. here is further evidence, if any, of the effectiveness of the right to petition in europe. environmental petitions are the majority and waste is a major concern of our citizens. this subject has to answer a social problem. we consume at will. we are only now beginning to realise that what we do not consume, we throw away. it is clear that this awareness must be reinforced among the citizens. but this report is also a wake-up call to the member states. it is still worrying that the governments do not seem to be getting the situation under control. only six member states have transposed the waste framework directive in time. the number of complaints received on the subject sometimes shows the lack of transparency in the choice of landfill sites. finally, and most worryingly, organized crime seems to be doing its own thing. a market worth 75 billion euros is bound to attract covetousness. the states must send a strong signal. we need to increase sanctions against companies that misuse public contracts to enrich themselves. this report is a wake-up call to the states, but the european commission must also play its part and check that the waste directives are being properly applied. we need to make this case visible but also credible. if no one plays along, we will continue to waste time and money on verification and counter-verification procedures that could take years. let's listen to the petitioners' message and stop this mess as soon as possible. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". the report by mr iturgaiz angulo is clear. we have discussed the question of selective sorting. i cannot answer more at the moment to the question that has been put.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs bastos on her report, which i believe is very comprehensive and addresses all the issues raised in particular by the commission's mid-term evaluation report. clearly, this report emphasizes the involvement of ngos and small structures, the improvement of management, everything that actually helps to maintain the objectives of the programme. i obviously have some regrets. first of all, i regret that there is no real debate on this report today, which would have allowed us to put the spotlight on the pervasiveness of violence against young people, women and children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and i am sure that the commission will take appropriate action to ensure that this is done. clearly, then, there are still matters to be settled, which are not entirely clear in the comments of both sides. i don't have time to talk about prevention and education about stereotypes. i would like to conclude on two points of vigilance: the first, indeed, concerns the maintenance of the amount of the daphne programme and the second concerns the name of this programme, which is very well identified, and the guarantee that this name will be maintained in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sexual violence and mass rape as weapons of war are unfortunately on the increase throughout the world. our parliament has repeatedly expressed its alarm at the worsening situation, particularly in the east of the republic of the congo, and the widespread impunity. i went to south kivu a while ago. i can testify to the gravity of the situation and the devastating physical and psychological consequences for women and girls as a result of such acts. let's not get the wrong fight. in the face of such atrocities, reproductive and sexual health must be addressed without taboo. it is imperative that the union places reproductive and sexual health and the protection of women's sexual rights in wartime at the centre of its actions. we know that rape is a crime. in wartime, that's a war crime. so a woman - we must always remember this - is not a weapon of war.
in writing. the brics (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) and other emerging economies are becoming increasingly important, and now unavoidable, in international relations. i voted in favour of this text because it will go beyond purely economic cooperation and encourage the creation of a common platform for foreign policy. these countries want us, the western powers, to include them more in order to strengthen global governance and multilateral diplomacy. it should be recalled that the brics already show clear ambitions in foreign policy, as they have been meeting regularly since 2009 and seeking to develop common positions. for now, they're doing it without us. it is therefore imperative that we take account of the new economic and political weight of brics. as the rapporteur points out, this is all the more necessary when considering that transnational challenges (such as climate change, global regulatory issues, access to raw materials, terrorism, sustainable development, etc.) will require an inclusive approach based on shared values. with this report, the european union is taking the initiative and announcing that it wishes to play a central role.
in writing. brazil, russia, india, china and south africa (brics) have become key global actors with whom the eu needs to develop a constructive partnership, based on shared values, in order to address transnational challenges such as climate change, access to raw materials and rare earths, terrorism, and sustainable development. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. the brics countries, in terms of their share of world gdp, have a role to play in international development policy, including in advancing compliance with basic labour standards and raising the skill levels of the workforce in line with ilo rules. the millennium development goals can only be achieved through close and constructive cooperation between the eu and the brics countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which reorganises the partnership between the european union and the emerging countries. the union must play its full part in the negotiations which will alter the international balance of power if it is to be able to defend its values and maintain its influence in the new global governance.
in writing. the rapporteur's proposals on the relations we should have with the emerging powers are symptomatic of the spirit of surrender and submission which prevails in this house. the report says that the ultimate aim of these relations should be to organise, and i quote, 'an inclusive system of global governance'. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. in this context, it is proposed that the un and the imf should be given a little more power to help these emerging countries in the euro crisis. it would also mean that relations with the brics (brazil, russia, india, china, south africa) would be entrusted exclusively to the european union, and thus for the time being to mrs ashton, while national diplomacies would be nothing more than relays without autonomy of the decisions taken in brussels. this is unacceptable. i take this opportunity to denounce the fate of white farmers in south africa, who have been brutally murdered with the complicity of the authorities, and the total silence of this parliament on the subject.
in writing. this is a good report, which aims to lay the foundations for a new system of global governance that is inclusive and to make recommendations while identifying key areas for reform. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report is symptomatic of transatlantic imperialism. it refuses to respect the sovereign will of states to establish cooperative arrangements which are not in accordance with its interests. the aim here is to deny the cooperation established by the so-called brics states, to give priority to strengthening ties with those who aspire to a social market economy and to discourage the formation of new regional blocs. it also proposes a global economic governance organised by the g20 and prepared within the g7 and the transatlantic partnership. so many illegitimate instances that i denounce. the only legitimate framework for dealing with global issues is the un. this text merely seeks to make it cooperate with the g7 and the g20. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this report, which shows that our world has indeed changed: the emerging powers have confirmed their predominant economic weight, which is now accompanied by an increasing diplomatic weight. in this rapidly changing context, europe cannot remain silent. it must propose strong initiatives to reshape the global governance system so that it is more inclusive and based on relevant instruments and representative bodies. i think we should not look at the brics countries with fear, but with realism: the economic, social, financial, confidence crisis has demonstrated, if necessary, how interdependent our economies are. we can no longer afford to adopt unilateral approaches, when the challenges we face (energy, sustainable development, food, security, etc.) are common to all humanity. the eu must, however, be vigilant not to lose its influence and not to neglect its historic allies, particularly the arab world. i am convinced that any retreat or weakening on our part would result in a stronger presence of the brics countries among our strategic partners. i believe that eu-brics cooperation is the key to maintaining our leadership.
in writing. the recent unrest in the middle east has shown that it is imperative for the european union to develop a common strategy vis-à-vis authoritarian regimes already subject to restrictive measures by the european union. if we speak with one voice, how much more convincing we will be! i supported this recommendation because it calls for the authoritarian leaders to be deprived of their trade with the members of the european union, to be stripped of their personal fortunes, to be prevented from travelling to our countries or from sending members of their families there.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which rationalizes the european union's policy of sanctions against authoritarian states. incoherent or uneven application by member states of the restrictive measures decided by brussels is damaging to the credibility of europeans on the international scene and reduces the impact of these sanctions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation on the definition of a coherent policy towards authoritarian regimes against which the european union applies restrictive measures when they pursue personal and commercial interests within the eu's borders. indeed, following the arab revolutions and the emergence of a series of european investments in these totalitarian regimes or investments from these regimes in europe, it has become essential that the eu, on the basis of its fundamental principles of democracy and the rule of law, condemn these practices. this proposal for a recommendation is part of that framework, stressing the importance of an effective, coherent, unanimous and unambiguous policy of sanctions against totalitarian regimes. equally important, the proposal also stresses the importance of ensuring that foreign development aid is not used to enrich authoritarian rulers and those close to them.
in writing. the european union is used by several authoritarian leaders as a source of real estate and banking services, a safe haven for their personal fortunes. it is clear that there are no coherent european restrictive measures in this area. the draft report stresses the need for transparent european sanctions.
in writing. this report calls for the assets of tyrants and their accomplices to be frozen and returned to the people. it calls for a clear definition of sanctions and the conditions under which they can be lifted. it reminds the member states of their duty to apply universal jurisdiction. all these proposals i share. i regret, however, that nowhere is it written that sanctions which may affect the population must be avoided at all costs. i am particularly concerned about the hypocrisy of this report. he said he wanted to fight the "double standard" of european sanctions. yet no sanctions have ever been imposed on the porfirio lobo regime in honduras. the majority of this house would rather worry, as this report points out, that its sanctions do not impede the commercial interests of european companies. you're such a hypocrite. i cannot vote for such a text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies the eu's position on sanctions regimes applicable to authoritarian regimes. europe stands for universal values which it promotes and must ensure are respected. it must therefore set an example and provide for sanctions against those who violate human rights and fundamental freedoms. any eu sanctions regime must respect the principles of legality and proportionality and not penalise the population of the countries concerned. because if not, the cure would be harder than the disease. it must be borne in mind that the purpose of such sanctions is to force authoritarian rulers to initiate democratic change, to stop oppressing their people and to re-establish the rule of law. i am also in favour of strengthening coordination at international level. the multiplicity of actors requires exemplary cooperation in implementing the relevant instruments. without coordinated multilateral action, sanctions measures would lose their effectiveness. finally, i believe that it is essential for the credibility of our foreign policy to strike a balance between coercive diplomacy and continuing dialogue with the regimes concerned.
in writing. the parliament made specific recommendations to the commission for the 14th company law directive on the crossborder transfer of registered offices. we want to avoid, on the one hand, that the transfer of the registered office of a company implies the liquidation of the company in its country of origin and, on the other hand, that workers are victims of this transfer and lose part of their social rights. as rapporteur for the employment committee, i have been keen to ensure that the transfer does not affect the rights of the partners, employees and shareholders. the social issues connected with the transfer are essential to me. we must ensure that workers are involved in the process of transferring the head office: they must be consulted, informed and have the possibility of appealing against any suspension. the worker must no longer be a victim of company transfers, but must be able to benefit from them, whether in the context of the transfer of a large or a small company. only then can we encourage the mobility of our enterprises to meet the needs of competition, while at the same time combating social dumping.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on company law relating to the crossborder transfer of registered offices, as there is currently a real lack of legislative coherence in this area. a number of obstacles remain, such as administrative difficulties, high financial costs and lack of legal certainty. the report draws the attention of the european commission to this issue by asking it to submit a legislative proposal to address the problems raised.
in writing. the main purpose of this report is to promote tax competition between member states. he even wants to stop them from taxing companies that move. worse, he has no regard for the workers that these relocations will leave behind. i vote against it.
in writing. we wonder about the european union's management of the humanitarian aid budget and the united nations' delivery of european aid. it is important today that we are more effective in dealing with the increase in major natural disasters. the report by martin ehrenhauser was widely accepted, because it answered all these questions. the budgetary allocations for the prevention of humanitarian disasters had to be rebalanced and sufficient financial room for manoeuvre had to be maintained to enable rapid intervention in the event of a crisis. the next financial framework will provide for an increase in the budget for the humanitarian aid instrument, which will make it possible to work on disaster preparedness. the new financing arrangements will also allow unused funds from the reserve to be transferred to the following year for urgent humanitarian needs. finally, we call for special attention to be given to children, pregnant women and mothers of young children, providing them with food, clothing, evacuation and transportation facilities, as well as medical equipment, in order to prevent unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, which are priorities under the current financial mechanisms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text controlling the financial management of the service responsible for implementing the european union's humanitarian aid in the countries of the south. in this time of crisis, it is doubly important to control spending and to ensure that the funds committed go to those who need it most.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of this resolution which criticises the management of the european union's humanitarian aid - in particular the way in which european funds are managed by the un - and which aims to make humanitarian aid fully effective and controlled. the european union is the world's largest provider of humanitarian aid, with €2957 million in 2010. it plays a central role in assisting the poorest people around the world. the management of these funds needs to be further improved. it is essential to monitor more closely the reliability of the partner ngos, but also and above all the management of eu funds by the un, whose reports contain too little information on the effectiveness of the programmes put in place. in humanitarian aid, transparency is an imperative with which we must not compromise! it is a question of the credibility of the european union's action in the service of those most in need.
in writing. i supported this report on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by echo, as it highlights the need to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of echo's control, monitoring and oversight system, and stresses the importance of ensuring the sustainability and complementarity of humanitarian action, drawing in particular lessons from the disasters in haiti and pakistan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by echo. the european union is the world's largest provider of humanitarian aid. in 2010, the total union contribution was €2 957 million, with 36% being provided by the european commission and the member states. the commission thus provides funding to nearly 200 partners such as ngos and un agencies. however, the control over the use of these funds is relatively limited. the reports provided by the united nations are of a very general nature and do not contain specific information on the results. the commission should therefore address any deficiencies in transparency in order to avoid the risk of misappropriation of un funds for humanitarian aid and development activities.
in writing. this report highlights real problems, particularly with regard to the transparency of the organisation of humanitarian aid. it also calls for an increase in the eu's humanitarian budget. in that sense, i support it. i regret, however, that in terms of transparency he almost exclusively denounces the un agencies. i also regret that he is asking for the control of the use of funds to be carried out by private firms, as if this were a guarantee of independence.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest provider of humanitarian aid. in 2010, the total contribution from the european union was eur 2 957 million, 36% of which was provided through the commission. the commission manages its humanitarian activities from its headquarters in brussels and through a network of field offices around the world. the average annual budget managed by dg echo for its humanitarian aid activities between 2006 and 2010 was €889 million. the report addresses the following main issues: efficiency and effectiveness of echo's control, monitoring and supervision system, particularly when it comes to partners in the framework partnership agreement (fp) or international organisations (such as the united nations). the report also stresses the need to ensure the sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian action, which are key objectives of eu development policy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in the face of the increase in natural disasters, it is imperative for the european union to strengthen its capacity to react and respond to crises. in this context, i believe it is essential to maintain a consistent balance between the financing of actions aimed at preventing humanitarian disasters and those aimed at responding rapidly to emergency situations. as rapporteur for the opinion on this report, adopted unanimously by the committee on development, i welcome the quality work done by the partners of dg echo through an effective selection method - such as the framework partnership contract - and the development of standards and practices for the humanitarian field. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. breast implants scandals, costa concordia sinking... there are many news stories that illustrate the willingness of citizens to file a collective complaint when abuse or harm is commonly reported. by adopting the lehne report on thursday, 2 february, the european parliament's idea, which i fully support, is to take the debate on this issue further and move towards the opening up of collective redress within the eu. this new possibility of collective action should enable complainants from the member states to come together to denounce the same damage. however, this new system will also have to take account of the lessons learned from the deviations of the american system, which is itself plagued by collective seizures which are sometimes abusive or even unfounded. to do this, the report asks the commission to take into account key elements in developing its legislative proposal: limiting the eligibility of claims to clearly defined groups by allowing a magistrate to have the discretion to check in advance the admissibility of any possible class action, and prohibiting punitive damages. the impetus came from the european parliament, and it is now imperative for the commission to fill this legal gap by responding to the fundamental right of victims to compensation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report proposing a european-wide class action option, which calls on the commission to consider what the appropriate legal basis is for any action in the field of class action. in my view, this form of redress would allow victims of illegal actions, particularly victims of minor injuries, to come together to seek redress, thereby reducing the excessive costs of justice and increasing legal certainty and respect for the rule of law in europe. i also welcomed the inclusion in this report of a clarification that europe does not, however, want to have a system identical to that of the united states, that the european collective redress system should be set up in such a way as to protect the european citizen without undermining in any way the integrity of the single market and the rule of law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the establishment of a coherent european approach to collective redress, as i believe that action at european union level in this area would bring a certain added value. it is a question of taking a realistic and pragmatic approach and going beyond the ideological debate which is reduced to the rejection of the "american scarecrow". european citizens must be able to exercise their rights effectively. however, strict control of procedures must be ensured to avoid abusive complaints.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague klaus lehne on a coherent european approach to collective redress. i felt it was necessary to reflect in depth on the added value that could be created by the establishment of a system of collective redress at european level. without falling into the excesses of the us model, it is important to end the legal patchwork within the eu and to enable european citizens to enforce their rights in a safe and effective way, as access to individual remedies is often difficult and expensive. of course, this system must be strictly controlled and must strike the right balance to avoid abuse and judicialisation of our society, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report: i have been in favour of collective action for years. the commission is frankly struggling to offer us anything serious: we have had 'green papers', 'working documents', 'draft guidelines', 'consultation documents', and in the end, nothing tangible has yet been done at european level. however, collective redress must be introduced in europe: it is clear that when a group of citizens is the victim of the same offence, individual redress cannot always be the solution, either to stop the illegal practice or to obtain redress, especially when the individual damage is minor compared to the cost of legal action. of course, as i have already said, these resources must be marked (quality for action, opt-in, no pre-financing by third parties, etc.) in order to avoid deviations from the american system. but the debate must not paralyse the legislative action! that is why i supported this report, which sets out a framework within which these remedies could be considered, even if i do not agree with all the guidelines.
in writing. european citizens must be able to enforce eu law in their national courts without difficulty. the shortcomings in collective redress weaken this right, particularly in the case of actions for compensation. while respect for the legal traditions of the different member states is a fundamental principle, we need to go beyond the european compensation system and adopt a binding legal framework which regulates collective redress throughout the union. i voted in favour of streamlining and simplifying the legal procedures for european citizens. a class action is a means of dealing with the complaints of several complainants who consider themselves to be victims of the same damage. as a member of parliament, i felt it was important to advocate a procedure which makes legal proceedings in the eu less costly and less random.
in writing. i regret the passage of the resolution opposing the adoption of the draft commission regulation on nutrition claims. i regret the result of a vote which was a little haphazard, with a very small majority of only 15 votes, and after a speech which distorted reality. far from protecting the consumer, some colleagues unfortunately tend to infantilize him. three points, however, were necessary to protect the consumer. first, the claim was quite clear: "now contains x % less than [name of nutrient]". then it was usable only from 15% reduction in nutrient content. finally, a maximum period of use of one year had been set. while the european parliament keeps on stressing the urgent need to combat obesity and to reduce the sugar, salt, fat, etc. content of food products, it is now taking the incomprehensible position of rejecting a claim which would have encouraged the food industry to go in this direction, in the interests of consumer health. thus, in the pursuit of "the best", "the good" is no longer found and the incentive of manufacturers to reformulate their products is broken.
in writing. at the plenary vote on 1 february, the european parliament, by a slim majority, chose to reject a draft regulation whose aim was to provide additional nutritional information to consumers. his concern for ever more, or even for too much, led him to take a stand that was contrary to the principles he intended to uphold. obesity has become a major health problem, a phenomenon that we must combat with strength and pragmatism. this requires progressive and non-dogmatic measures so that private actors are also involved in meeting public health objectives and contribute to improving the nutritional quality of food. the original proposal, which parliament chose to reject, provided for the compulsory nutrition labelling to be supplemented by the formula 'now contains x % less than'. this claim was usable from 15% reduction in nutrient content and only for one year, which encouraged the food industry to make ever greater efforts to be transparent to the consumer.
in writing. this is a resolution tabled in the context of the objection procedure against delegated acts of the european commission. i have decided to abstain on this particularly sensitive matter. it is true that nutrition claims on food products have a real role to play in public health. however, some of the allegations made by the commission appeared to call consumer protection into question.
in writing. all recent studies agree that excessive sugar consumption is a serious health hazard. sugar consumption has even been linked to an increase in diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. diabetes and obesity also remain major health challenges. in this sense, it is essential to inform the consumer about the composition of the food he is likely to consume and to encourage the production of food products containing less fat and sugars. the commission's proposal to allow the reduction in the amount of fat or sugars in a product to be indicated on its labelling compared with the previous recipe was therefore a good one. it provides better information to consumers and encourages the reduction of sugars and fats in food products.
in writing. nutrition and health claims should only be allowed if they are accurate, unambiguous and not misleading. however, the new nutrition claim submitted to us ('now contains x % less than (name of nutrient) ') could have misled the consumer. this involved a comparison between a new formula and the old product, without the consumer necessarily knowing the initial content of this product in a given nutrient - this content may well be excessively high compared to other products available on the market (not re-formulated, therefore not able to carry the claim). another problem is that it is known that the consumer generally expects that a reduction in the sugar content will lead to a reduction in the energy value. the text would have allowed the claim 'reduced fat/sugar' even if the energy value of the product remained the same as that of a similar product. finally, there would have been a possible confusion with existing claims, such as for example 'lightweight/light', for which the requirements are in fact more stringent. for these reasons, i have rejected, by means of this vote, the proposal to amend the regulation on nutrition claims.
in writing. i have approved the motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 30 january. as the rapporteur points out, 'all the elements of the new treaty can be achieved, and to a large extent have already been achieved' thanks to the european parliament. it should be noted that many of the measures contained in the treaty were the result of debates in the european parliament. we are therefore convinced that the european parliament must play a decisive role in the economic governance under construction. we therefore need to be consulted on measures relating to stability, policy coordination and economic governance. beyond that, i have two regrets. on the one hand, the final text ignores parliament's request that its president should take part in the euro-zone summits, and on the other hand, the united kingdom and the czech republic did not want to join us. as joseph daul, the president of my political group (epp), has said, the treaty must now be signed, ratified and incorporated into the european treaties as soon as possible.
in writing. who can ignore today that the eu is going through a deep crisis, not only economic and social, but global and even a crisis of meaning? and yet our heads of state and government persist in the course which has widened the gap between the peoples and the eu. after ignoring the votes of the europeans in the referendum on the constitutional treaty, they signed a new treaty between themselves, negotiated almost behind closed doors, focused on austerity and budgetary discipline. no real involvement of the european parliament, no public debate, no cooperation with the national parliaments and, in fact, nothing about growth and future investment. as i said when we voted on our previous resolution, i have more than doubts about this new treaty! i therefore voted against today's resolution because i believe that it is no longer sufficiently critical of this treaty, which is presented to us as the only possible way forward. it is both useless in substance (since many measures can be implemented in eu law) and incomplete (since there is no balance between austerity and growth measures), but it is also frankly questionable in form: if we want to regain the credit of the european people, this is certainly not the way to do it!
in writing. i was pleased to have the opportunity to involve the european parliament in the debate on the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union. i did not, however, wish to vote in favour of a resolution which is reserved about a process whose importance and urgency seem to me to be obvious. that is why i abstained in this vote, just as i abstained in the vote on the resolution of 18 january.
in writing. this resolution wrongly maintains a number of criticisms of the european parliament towards the council, whose efforts to improve budgetary discipline in a timely manner must be supported. i cannot therefore agree with this text. however, i cannot join those who refuse and reject all budgetary discipline: the present crisis is a crisis of public spending, and it will be overcome by greater collective discipline. i therefore decided to abstain on that resolution.
in writing. as i expressed my reservations on the joint resolution of the european parliament on the conclusions of the european council of 8 and 9 december 2011, i am voting against the joint resolution put to the vote on the conclusions of the european council of 30 january 2012. the resolution stresses that only the community method can bring about a genuine economic and budgetary union and that budgetary discipline alone cannot solve the european economic and financial crisis. however, the text does not call into question the international agreement on a budgetary stability union, which was approved by the heads of state and government on monday. the root causes of the crisis must be tackled by calling neoliberal policies into question, denouncing the binding austerity mechanism that will apply to the current and future governments of the member states, highlighting the ultra-technocracy involved in the agreement, which in fact widened the gap between the european institutions and the european citizens, and finally recalling that the draft agreement will institutionalize a two-speed europe, the member states party to the agreement and the others.
in writing. the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union strengthens budgetary discipline and i welcome this. it thus gives greater legal force to the golden rule of returning to a balanced public accounts. the french socialists and mr hollande are warned that none of the 25 member states which signed the treaty will be able to escape the objective of budgetary balance under penalty of sanctions imposed by the court of justice. i regret, however, that this resolution voted by parliament does not recognise the significant progress that will be made in implementing this new treaty, and fails to welcome the political will shown by nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel.
in writing. the treaty on stability, coordination and governance endorsed by 25 heads of state and government marks a major step towards stabilising our economies and is an effective tool in combating the financial crisis and restoring confidence. with its partners, france is committed to balanced budgets, convergence and coordination of our economic policies, because the vitality of the french economy also depends on that of the euro area as a whole. of course, there is still work to be done. the european parliament and the national parliaments must be able to be involved and to participate in the budgetary debates we are engaged in. certain provisions of the treaty provide for this, and it is in this spirit that a delegation from the european parliament was invited to take part in the negotiations on 30 january. however, this resolution does not sufficiently acknowledge the progress made by the new text. in repeating its support for the resolution of 18 january, which i had opposed, it is making criticisms which i think are excessive. that's why i chose to abstain.
in writing. the joint resolution on the european council of 30 january 2012 was adopted by 443 votes in favour, 124 against and 75 abstentions. i voted against this resolution with four other colleagues from the epp. if this text proposes interesting ideas, such as the creation of a depreciation fund and the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, it is clear that it once again calls into question the usefulness of the new treaty, which, let us not forget, was created thanks to the involvement and determination of our president of the republic and the german chancellor.
in writing. i wished to abstain from voting on the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 30 january 2012 and the draft treaty on stability, coordination and governance of the economic and monetary union. i fully support the european council's statements and would like to express my satisfaction at the conclusion of the treaty. the strengthening of european economic governance and budgetary stability, which are a prerequisite for the exercise of financial solidarity, which this treaty establishes, are in my view strong political acts. i therefore regret that parliament, in its resolution adopted on 2 february 2012, refers to its previous resolution, voted on 18 january, in which it expressed its doubts as to the relevance of this draft treaty and criticised the institutional architecture envisaged. i also regret that the resolution adopted by parliament on 2 february expresses reservations about the format of the euro-area summits laid down in the treaty, which seems to me to be appropriate in this respect too.
in writing. the joint resolution of the right-wing conservatives, liberals, socialists and greens contains a multitude of contradictions. these are in fact a cover-up of the existence of the new treaty or the implementation of its extremely dangerous content. the joint resolution also calls for the adoption of a new european treaty, which would be a step towards the creation of a european union. this means that the new european treaty must be approved as a last resort. i therefore voted against this text, which is being drawn up without the opinion of the national parliaments, without consulting the european peoples, and after a negative opinion a few weeks ago from parliament itself. i call for consultation of the people, particularly by referendum where the constitutions allow it.
in writing. the merkozy duo has succeeded in imposing its "golden rule" on almost all of europe, a genuine austerity plan designed to punish member states that do not comply with the budgetary austerity demands of brussels. from spring of each year, europe will thus be introducing a real cycle of public financial surveillance. mr van rompuy talks about growth and investment for jobs, but what is apparent from this treaty is a policy designed to kill growth and to put national budgets under control. yesterday maastricht deprived us of our monetary sovereignty; today it is the european parliament which is the real problem. today we are being deprived of our budgetary sovereignty. this treaty sacrifices the will of the peoples to dispose of themselves on the altar of european economic federalism. it is a victory for the financial markets and the rating agencies over the states. your answers will only bring more suffering to the peoples of europe already hard hit by your policies. that is why we are voting against this resolution.
in writing. the joint resolution proposed by the epp, sd, alde and greens/efa groups confirms their agreement with the substance of the treaty on budgetary discipline. it announced that their representatives would validate and apply the strengthened golden rule and its constitutionalisation in the member states. as for the ratification of the treaty, the idea that it should be submitted to a vote of the peoples by means of referendums is again completely absent. i denounce the doctrinal blindness of all the supporters of liberal economics and austerity who will vote for this text or who will abstain. for me and my group the choice is clear: no!
in writing. far from providing a way out of the crisis, this agreement is an aggravated and forced submission of european states to financial and speculative logic which is harmful to the good conduct and well-being of our societies. sarkozy and merkel have imposed an ideological dictate on other governments, on all the peoples of europe, without consulting the citizens, or even going through the normal rules of constitutional amendment specific to each state. with my colleagues from the gue/ngl i have signed and tabled an alternative motion for a resolution. our resolution is the only one which clearly rejects this democratic attempt to undermine the sovereignty of the peoples; it is the only one which clearly opposes the introduction of a new rule fixing the structural deficit of the member states at 0.5% of nominal gdp, which will in fact result in permanent austerity throughout europe. it is still the only one to oppose sanctions and to call for a public consultation on the issue. i therefore voted for the resolution which i tabled with my group and against the consensus between the liberals, the conservatives, the socialists and the greens on this agreement.
in writing. mr president, i am pleased that the european parliament has strongly supported the new european treaty. it is a historic turning point: it will set the rule of balanced budgets in stone and thus strengthen mutual trust between the states. economic governance, which we meps have long called for, is now becoming a reality. from the outset, nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel were in the game. the franco-german couple started from the same observations and proposed the same solution: to get out of the crisis, we must clean up our finances. the recovery will only take place on a sound basis. that is the whole point of my unwavering support for this strategy. while the vast majority of european governments have shown pragmatism in supporting this text, i note that the french socialists have once again isolated themselves in their own european political family. they failed to impose their will to renegotiate the treaty. this leaves one wondering about the credibility of their revolutionary ideas for a strong france, in a strong europe...
in writing. in the face of an unprecedented attack on popular sovereignty, the european parliament today voted a resolution that says very little. the heads of state meeting in brussels this week agreed on a draft treaty containing: the incorporation of the golden rule into the constitutions of the member states; the reverse qualified majority rule (a state which does not comply with the maastricht criteria can be sanctioned by a minority of states); the commission has not yet decided on the criteria to be used for the correction of the budgets of the member states. the gue/ngl once again opposed this denial of democracy. in the face of such a transfer of sovereignty without any involvement of the peoples, the european parliament simply requests the presence of the president of the european parliament at the meetings of the euro-zone summits. only popular mobilization and the demand for referendums can make it possible to fight against this anti-democratic, austerity dogma.
in writing. in this joint resolution, which i have approved, we support sanctions against the iranian regime. we also want to point out that we do not approve of the fact that china and russia are still refusing to take sanctions. we have supported both the new european restrictive measures and the council's determination to work towards a diplomatic settlement of the iranian nuclear issue in accordance with the dual approach. we urge the iranian authorities to respond favourably to the offer of negotiation and to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency (iaea). iran must return to the negotiating table as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of the european union's decision to impose an oil embargo on iran. this is a measure to increase pressure on a regime which is not respecting un resolutions and is pursuing a nuclear weapons programme. the oil embargo, which france has been leading, is the solution to prevent military intervention by countries that feel threatened, and a conflagration in the region.
in writing. the european union, notably through the voice of the european parliament, is firmly and daily committed to peace and security throughout the world. iran, despite repeated calls from the international community, continues to develop its nuclear programme. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling for new sanctions against iran, including a gradual embargo on imports of crude oil. however, these sanctions must be targeted, to spare the population as much as possible and to force the iranian leadership to return to the negotiating table. in the iranian crisis, the solution must be diplomatic, not military. i wanted to reaffirm this with my colleagues in the european parliament by supporting the vote on this resolution.
in writing. this resolution expresses the deep concern of the members of the european parliament about the possible military dimension of the iranian programme. this resolution is all the more important as it was adopted at the same time as the european union decided to adopt sanctions of unprecedented scale against iran, namely an embargo on oil from iran and a freeze on the assets of the central bank of iran. as a member of the eu-iran delegation and the subcommittee on security and defence and particularly committed to these issues, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i abstained on this report. as much as i am in favour of diplomatic and trade sanctions against the iranian regime as a deterrent to halting its military nuclear programme, i am concerned that this resolution will open the way to dangerous military intervention. targeted sanctions against certain iranian leaders or certain economic sectors must be envisaged, without prejudice to the iranian people. these must in no way be a prerequisite for military action. unfortunately, that is what this report is about.
in writing. while the oil embargo is a means of pressure, its inevitable consequences on the iranian population should not be overlooked; the resolution also implies a threat of military intervention in iran. nothing like this to rally the iranian people to the idea that nuclear weapons are necessary for their defense and to radicalize the iranian regime a few weeks before the parliamentary elections. this text has no spine. sanctions must be directed exclusively at political and economic leaders. the escalation of military tensions must stop. they must give way to a regional conference on peace and the denuclearisation of the middle east under the auspices of the un and to the effective, progressive and reciprocal nuclear disarmament of all the nuclear powers.
in writing. by voting, i wanted to support the eu's decision to increase pressure on iran. the iranian attitude is an affront and a challenge to our model of society, our values and our security. there is no denying that iran's belligerent rhetoric and its pursuit of nuclear energy is a threat to world peace, especially in a highly unstable region. nevertheless, if we are to maintain pressure on this despotic regime, we must continue the political dialogue, otherwise we will be witnessing an escalation with an uncertain outcome. i share the concerns of western leaders, who are concerned about iran's influence in the region and its support for authoritarian and despotic regimes. i welcome the sanctions decided by the union and i strongly hope that, after honest negotiations, we will reach a rapid resolution of this latent crisis. war is never the answer, and the consequences of military intervention would be disastrous. finally, i have a thought for the iranian people, held hostage by dogmatic and bloodthirsty leaders, who rule by repression, intimidation and deprivation. the eu must do everything possible to bring this regime to its knees, which is clearly going crazy.
in writing. i have chosen to support this report because it aims to 'cleanse' european sport by creating a european hooligan file, equating doping with drug trafficking and regulating the profession of player agents. the resolution calls for the abolition of the death penalty for all crimes against humanity and for the establishment of a european criminal record. all fraudulent activities (game-fixing, money laundering and illegal betting) are criminalised; that trafficking in doping substances be treated by the courts as narcotics trafficking; a licensing system for betting operators is put in place; the commission has also proposed that the profession of player agent be regulated, by creating a european register of agents which would list the players they represent, and by requiring agents to have a minimum level of qualifications.
in writing. i welcome the approval of the report on the european dimension of sport, because it finally recognises the value of sport as an important factor of economic growth for the european union. this includes supporting girls' sports by removing all obstacles, including religious and cultural ones. here again, better representation of women in the governing bodies of sports federations must be part of the necessary developments. the text also aims to establish a blacklist of violent supporters ( hooligans ) and to continue the fight against doping, illegal betting and match-fixing. in the european parliament we also wanted to ensure that top athletes receive a good education so that those who leave their sporting careers have a secure future. finally, the annual project of a european day of sport will help to strengthen the european identity in sport.
in writing. a few weeks after the european commission announced the creation of a specific budget for sport, the fisas report confirms that this is indeed a european issue. a dedicated budget for sport, it was time! if the sums remain small in comparison to the money made by the sports world (30 million per year between 2014 and 2020), i welcome this step forward. the european commission has taken note of the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. the fisas report recalls that sport is a multifaceted field, which has a strong economic dimension and plays a fundamental social role. the need to promote volunteering, to prepare athletes for life after a professional sporting career through training, to combat illegal sports betting, to coordinate the fight against doping and to regulate the profession of agent... the subjects for action, and in particular those for which i had tabled amendments in the final text, such as the protection of minors in international transfers and the necessary collaboration between the eu and the council of europe (a very active body on sports matters), are not lacking ! so let's move forward on these new foundations!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the broad lines of a future european sport policy. sport is now an integral part of human and social development, contributes to a healthy lifestyle, promotes intercultural encounters and has a real educational value, especially for the young. the development of sporting activities in the eu will therefore benefit all our citizens.
in writing. the european parliament paternally encourages us to do sport because it is good for health, because sport 'brings joy' and strengthens social cohesion. we should thank him! however, it does highlight some contradictions. after encouraging the widespread use of online sports betting, he is concerned about the system's abuses, match-fixing and corruption. at the same time, the eu wants to protect the property rights of competition organisers and promote access to free broadcasting and information for all. today, the european commission is proposing to be a platform for the exchange of good practice and, at the very least, to organise sporting events itself. it is fortunate that baron de coubertin or jules rimet did not wait for the european commission to create the modern olympic games or the world cup. the european parliament also recommends that the european flag be displayed on the home team's jerseys and in the stadium, no doubt to combat so-called nationalism. this is to omit that, for example, the 2006 world cup final attracted 80% of the evening audience, the 2009 european elections 40% of the voters.
in writing. several passages in this report left me puzzled. the discrimination against women in sport. that's right, there are none on the men's soccer teams, and it's a scandal! the use of sport as a propaganda tool in favour of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it's true that it adds a little more interest to the competitions. those who advocate a health insurance with bonus-malus system according to the practice (or not) of sport. making the lazy pay, that's a find! but not a word about the salaries of certain sportsmen, which are unusually high and totally disconnected from the social utility of their beneficiaries, and the influence of these scandalous practices on the image of sport. there are also some good ideas, but frankly, it is not possible to vote for such a gimmick.
in writing. the report by s. fisas ayxela provided an opportunity for parliament to support the european commission's communication of 18 january 2011 on the development of the european dimension in sport as the first commission policy document on this subject since it became a community competence. while i welcome the report's desire to recall the values that sport must convey and to suggest the type of actions that should reflect the community's added value in this field, i question the union's current capacity to assume this responsibility in a meaningful way. with only 4 million euros dedicated specifically to sport per year (in the form of a 'preparatory action', i.e. a temporary action), the union does not have the means to intervene effectively to combat doping, support the practice of sport by people with disabilities, promote the development of a 'european identity' through sport, etc. this is an issue that will therefore have to be addressed in the coming months, as member states are called upon to establish the union's budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. sport is certainly one of the most powerful vehicles for the integration of the most disadvantaged and the rapprochement of cultures, it is one of the main components of social action in promoting the integration and development of everyone, everywhere in the world. i therefore voted in favour of this report which supports the economic dimension and the social role of sport, urging and encouraging the states and the commission to do more to promote, support and encourage its development among all sections of the european population, in particular by proposing the possibility for mass sports to benefit from the erdf and the esf. i also welcomed the inclusion in this resolution of concrete proposals such as the organisation of an annual 'european day of sport', the designation of an annual 'european capital of sport', the facilitation and promotion of mobility programmes for young athletes and sports coaches, and the suggestion to fly the european flag at major international sporting events. sport is a means of promoting our values, and it is particularly important to support sport in all its dimensions, especially at a time when european values and solidarity are being weakened.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority of the report on the european dimension of sport. sports is more than just an activity. it plays a driving social role. it is a factor of integration, sociability, education and social cohesion. sport is also a generator of growth and employment. it now accounts for 15 million jobs in europe and 3.6% of european gdp. so let us not neglect this important dimension which contributes to the consolidation of our social fabric and the achievement of our public health objectives.
in writing. sport is an integral part of human and social development. i am convinced, as are my colleagues in the epp, that the european union must create a future specific programme on sport. i voted in favour of this report, which was drawn up following the european commission's communication entitled 'developing the european dimension of sport'. in order to create a genuine european dimension in sport, the report recommends taking account of certain elements, such as the social role of sport, the promotion of a healthy lifestyle, the fight against doping, violence and intolerance and, finally, better governance in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european dimension of sport, which is the first adopted by parliament in this field since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i welcome the fact that it emphasises the major role of sport in promoting intercultural dialogue, public health, the integration of socially vulnerable people, the fight against discrimination and the emancipation of women. another positive point is that the text affirms the importance of sports volunteers - there are 35 million of them in europe - and stresses the need for appropriate training. of course, the fight against doping is a key point in the text: we call for prevention and information campaigns to be set up and urge the states to treat the trafficking of doping substances in the same way as the trafficking of illegal drugs. the paragraph suggesting that the european flag should be flown at major international sporting events held in the union was controversial. i believe that this would help to strengthen the sense of belonging to a common whole among european citizens, even as the european project is experiencing dark days, and i supported its retention in the text.
in writing. judging from the petitions we have received, citizens of the european union are concerned about the inability of member states to have effective and sustainable waste management policies. the european parliament has heard you. like many of my colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution which aims to improve these policies. although these are often backed by private interests, they are in some ways a public service mission. we have therefore called for clearer and more specific criteria for the location of landfills in relation to homes, schools and hospitals. it is also about communicating more about the merits of selective sorting, and making it clear that proper waste management is expensive but can attract investment and create jobs. everyone remembers the rupture of pools of toxic red mud in hungary that devastated a village, or the landfill near marseille, which in 2008 was close to saturation, despite its good management. so this is a problem for all of europe!
in writing. following the adoption of the waste framework directive in 2008, citizens are increasingly denouncing the poor management of waste in europe. and that's totally normal. they have a right to expect public authorities to provide public services which respect their health and the environment. the manifest failure of some member states to manage their waste, and in particular their toxic waste, has led to a considerable increase in the number of petitions on this subject. waste management is a major political and social problem; in the case of landfilling, the monitoring and control system is insufficient to prevent the contamination of household waste by toxic waste. let us develop these policies as far in advance as possible by improving sorting, collection and recycling to promote the recovery of waste and ensure an effective traceability system for toxic waste. landfill should be the last resort. the iturgaiz report shows that considerable efforts remain to be made and reminds us of the crucial importance of encouraging early dialogue between the competent authorities and citizens. the awareness of citizens is real, and the public authorities must respond by significantly improving waste management.
in writing. waste is a major concern for our citizens. this report is a wake-up call to the states. but the european commission must also play its part and ensure that the waste directive is properly applied. we need to make this case visible but also credible. it is worrying to see that the states do not seem to be in control of the waste management situation, only 6 member states have transposed the framework directive on waste in time, and a large number of complaints received by the committee on petitions on the subject sometimes show the lack of transparency in the choice of landfill sites. the house also called for exemplary sanctions to be introduced to prevent companies linked to organised crime from winning public contracts for the sole purpose of enrichment in this €75 billion market.
in writing. the main concern of the european citizens who petitioned the european parliament is the environment, and in particular the implementation by the member states of the waste management directive. following several fact-finding visits to ireland, italy, france and spain, the epp group supported the idea of an own-initiative report on the incorrect implementation of eu legislation by member states and inappropriate waste management facilities. the text also calls on the member states to speed up the transposition of the framework directive on waste management into national law. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report reminds member states of their obligation to respect the waste hierarchy in their waste management. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. so many points i share. i regret, however, that this text is too lenient with waste incineration, a highly polluting technique which benefits large industrial groups at the expense of reuse, recycling and renewable energy. it also supports the privatisation of waste management in europe, which explains the prevalence of this harmful technique. it is high time that ecological planning was introduced, which would put aside the law of the market and organise compliance with the priorities imposed by the general interest.
in writing. between 2004 and 2010, 114 petitions were filed for infringements of the waste management directive - more than ten of them from france - representing the majority of petitions on environmental issues, which are themselves the main source of petitions. waste management is a matter of direct concern to us; the shortcomings of the system - lack of awareness, administrative capacity and financial resources in particular - must therefore be addressed as quickly and as effectively as possible. i welcome the proposals made by mr carlos josé irturgaiz angulo in this respect. the use of cohesion funds and direct financing by the european investment bank is indeed necessary, as is the strengthening of the role of the european environment agency. finally, i fully support the idea of introducing a european standard for colour coding on packaging to facilitate sorting. i also fully support recycling, which was recently the subject of one of my questions to the commission.
in writing. the vote on this report, which i supported, sends a strong signal for a strong eu initiative on waste management. the large number of petitions on this subject highlights the concerns of the citizens on this matter, which i have shared for many years. the european legislative framework is relevant, but leaves out a number of important issues, such as innovative methods of recovery, reuse, recycling and disposal of waste. i believe that this is a priority issue, both for its consequences for human health and the well-being of europeans, but also for the environment and sustainable development. i asked the commission about the efforts to be made to reduce and recover waste from consumer packaging and about the need to eliminate food waste, which is a major source of waste and an imperative of solidarity with the poorest citizens. i therefore call again on the commission to make strong proposals for sustainable waste management throughout the supply chain. that is a european expectation, and i think it is quite legitimate.
in writing. the daphne programme, which was set up in 1997, has been a real success. it is the only european programme which, for almost 15 years, has aimed to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. the programme includes more than 500 projects and increased cooperation by ngos in a range of areas such as sexual, psychological and physical violence in institutional settings, at school and in the family. these include projects to prevent child pornography and the risks of surfing the internet for children, and projects to address the health needs of women who are victims of trafficking and female genital mutilation. i therefore naturally approved the european parliament's motion for a resolution, which calls on the commission to continue to finance such projects. i am particularly in favour of this report because the programme for 2014-2020 aims, among other things, to reaffirm the need for legislative action at european level to eradicate gender-based violence. my fight for women is therefore at national and european level.
in writing. the importance of the daphne programme is beyond dispute. this is the only programme that aims to combat violence against women, children and adolescents at eu level. we must therefore ensure adequate funding, not only to be able to meet the real needs of the fight against all forms of violence, but also to be able to set up awareness-raising actions for younger generations faced with the new forms of violence linked to the increasing use of online social networks (threats, psychological pressure, moral harassment, cyber-child pornography). it is also necessary to ensure that the objectives of the daphne programme are pursued in the rights and citizenship programme and that administrative formalities and grant application procedures are simplified in order to encourage small ngos to propose daphne projects.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to maintain funding to combat violence against women and children. the european union must support these vulnerable populations, who are still far too often subject to physical and psychological abuse, even in our developed countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the results and future prospects of the daphne programme because i believe that the definition of violence against women should include the word 'prostitution'.
in writing. in the eu, between 20-25% of women have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives, and more than 10% have experienced sexual violence involving the use of force. similarly, 26% of children and young people say they have been physically abused. in view of the scale of this violence, the daphne european programme was set up in 1997 to protect these women, young people and children, and it has been a real success ever since. the resolution we adopted, which i of course supported, welcomes the actions undertaken under this programme and calls for its renewal for the period 2014-2020. i would like to stress certain aspects in particular: firstly, our resolution calls for more funding for projects aimed at raising awareness among younger generations of the new forms of violence (social networks, cyber-child pornography, etc.). our resolution then encourages the participation and involvement of ngos, because of their essential role in supporting victims. finally, it is important that this instrument retains its name and independence in order to guarantee a certain visibility on this programme, as well as a budget at least equivalent to the previous programme.
in writing. the daphne programme is the only european programme explicitly aimed at combating violence against women, children and adolescents. this programme, which has been running since 1997, has financed more than 500 projects, studies and campaigns, in particular on the risks of "surfing" the internet for children, on the prevention of child pornography... it is a very successful programme, but unfortunately it is not applied in the same way in the member states. i therefore welcome this report which proposes to preserve the objectives of the daphne programme in the new rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020 and recommends better targeting of projects by also taking into account new forms of violence linked to the use of online social networks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the progress and future prospects of the daphne programme (european programme to combat violence against women and children, to be integrated for the period 2014-2020 into a new programme entitled 'rights and citizenship'), as it identifies a number of imbalances that have emerged since its creation in 1997, while stressing the need to maintain the objectives pursued by the programme and the means at its disposal to ensure its effectiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs bastos, on the outcome and future prospects of the european daphne programme. launched in 1997, the daphne programme has supported numerous eu-wide projects to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. as this type of violence is still as relevant today as it was in 1997, i think it is important to maintain the objectives and funding of such a programme. of course, it is also necessary to adapt it to the new forms of violence that are emerging, in particular those linked to the increasing use of online social networks, which are more insidious but equally dangerous for the physical and psychological integrity of the victims.
in writing. the daphne programme, launched in 1997, could be described as a success, both because of its popularity among those interested and because of the effectiveness of the actions it has funded. the only european programme to address violence against women, children and adolescents, it must be renewed until 2020. i therefore voted in favour of the draft report by mrs regina bastos on the balance sheet and the prospects for the programme. i support his wish to see it extended, and his wish to see smaller ngos more involved in the future. their participation is essential, as they are in daily contact with the public and are thus likely to be better able to detect unknown difficulties or taboos. i also believe, as the text emphasizes, that they have a capacity for innovation which should not be neglected. finally, i welcome the desire to improve the distribution of the projects financed - the difficulties addressed in this programme unfortunately exist in all member states without distinction.
in writing. in voting on this report, the european parliament voted against the commission's proposal to merge daphne with other programmes into a larger 'rights and citizenship' programme with a lower budget for the period 2014-2020. since 1997, the daphne programme has played a key role in supporting those involved in preventing and combating violence against women, children and young people, and in supporting cooperation between member states in this field. the commission proposal risks seriously undermining the objectives it has set itself, particularly in terms of access to finance for associations and in particular for small structures. i also welcome the emphasis on the importance of the programme to people facing poverty and social exclusion, in particular roma women and young people, who are particularly at risk of violence. the report also highlights the impact of gender stereotypes in the field of gender equality and the need for targeted action to combat them by raising public awareness, especially among young people. for me, this is the first battle for equality between women and men. i welcome the fact that this report stresses this priority.
in writing. i am proud that the european parliament has taken up the issue of women, peace and security, because it is essential that mentalities change! i therefore naturally supported this resolution which aims to strengthen the presence of women in peace negotiations and proposes the establishment of a european union special representative on women, peace and security. this report makes us aware that women are not only victims in conflict situations. they are also sometimes key players in peace processes. women soldiers who patrol on an equal footing with men send a strong message to local women, explained rapporteur norica nicolai. it rightly believes that it is essential to involve more women in conflict prevention and resolution, as well as in mediation activities. in the perspective of gender equality, it is necessary to open the armed forces to women more widely, both in managerial positions and in the field, and it is essential that women assume high responsibilities.
in writing. the first concern of the report is, strangely enough, the participation of women in peace negotiations, based, among other things, on a gender stereotype: men make war, women are better at dialogue. let's face it, though. only then does the situation of women in wartime come into focus, particularly the increasingly frequent rape of women, which in some parts of the world has become a weapon of war in its own right. the rapporteur calls for these rapes to be considered as war crimes and for the perpetrators not to be allowed to go unpunished. she's right, you know. but i seem to remember that there is a "right to war", as shocking as that term may sound, that has been saying that for a long time. the rapporteur also calls for a limitation of the "damaging effects of armed conflict on family life". and now, frankly, i don't know what to make of such a remark! naivety or good feelings ? the only way to limit these consequences is to avoid war.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report for several reasons. firstly, because it affirms the role of women victims during armed conflicts. secondly, and this is particularly important, it recognizes and reinforces the crucial role they play in the peace process. finally, we can welcome the fact that this report encourages the european union to take a leading position at international level in the fight against sexual violence against these women and girls in wartime.
in writing. when we consider the alarming situation of women in conflict zones, when we read the damning un reports on sexual violence against women, including the mass rape of women in the drc which is considered as an act of war, it becomes urgent that the international community should consider how to effectively fight against these heinous acts. i therefore welcome the adoption of mrs nicolai's report, which raises our awareness of this worrying issue. it is high time that concrete steps were taken to ensure that this violence stops and that women who are victims of it can have access to care and psychological and legal support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the situation of women in wartime, which deals more specifically with the impact of armed conflict on women, including sexual violence as a weapon of war. i particularly supported the provisions on women's reproductive and sexual health and the protection of their rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs norica nicolai, on the situation of women in wartime. it seems to me important that the european parliament should pay attention to the consequences of armed conflict on women, in particular the sexual violence they may suffer. rape as a weapon of war is a war crime and it is our duty to condemn it and to ensure that those who commit it are prosecuted, tried and punished for their actions. such sexual violence has traumatic and devastating physical and psychological consequences on the victims who are often stigmatized and rejected by their surroundings. another aspect of the report concerns the role of women in conflict and peace negotiations. a stronger role for women in the armed forces, civilian peacekeeping operations or peace negotiations would add value in political dialogue and women's empowerment in conflict regions.
in writing. the committee on development, on which i sit, was associated with the committee on women's rights, on the substance, in this report on the situation of women in wartime. this report deals with the role of women in peace negotiations and the impact of armed conflict on women worldwide. the report recommends the creation of an eu special representative for women in the european external action service and calls on member states to put in place action plans to improve the situation of women in countries in conflict. i am in full agreement with the actions to be taken to improve the situation of women and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in some armed conflicts, a terrible weapon is used - gang rape. in the democratic republic of congo (formerly zaire), rebel groups in the east regularly commit such acts of violence. other practices, such as sex slavery and human trafficking, follow, with equally tragic physical and psychological consequences. the peace and security strand is one of the major pillars of the strategic partnership between the european union and the african union. in august 2011, the european commission decided to allocate an additional €300 million to fund civilian peacekeeping missions. i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages european actors to coordinate their efforts to protect women in wartime. despite the mobilization of funds and the deployment of highly trained teams in the field, the violence continues and even intensifies. the rapporteur's proposals on prevention, emergency, treatment and sanctions must be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. sexual violence and mass rape, used as weapons of war, are unfortunately on the rise around the world. in the kivu region, in the eastern democratic republic of congo, i have seen firsthand the terrible consequences of these atrocities on the lives of women and girls. it is imperative that the european union places reproductive and sexual health and the protection of women's rights in wartime at the centre of its development cooperation programmes. in the face of such atrocities, reproductive and sexual health must be addressed without taboo. that is why i voted in favour of maintaining paragraphs 17 and 19 and for the report as a whole.
in writing. i abstained on the report on women in war situations. there are many positive aspects to this report. it denounces the situation of women in conflict situations, where they are particularly victims of discrimination and violence. it stressed the role of women in peacekeeping and called for an increase in the number of women in peacekeeping operations, particularly in leadership positions. but this report is very ambiguous about the military. the fact that more women are in the workforce, even in positions of responsibility, cannot be considered a factor for peace. that's why i decided not to.
in writing. the un has declared 2012 international year of sustainable energy for all , which provides an important opportunity for action even as universal access to energy by 2030 is a key objective announced by the un secretary-general. the european union wishes to participate actively in this programme. i therefore welcome the endorsement of the neuser report on eu development cooperation towards the goal of universal access to energy by 2030. the aim is to give access to modern energy services to populations that were previously deprived of them. it also includes a focus on renewable energy, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and a decentralised energy strategy to ensure energy access to remote areas. this is yet another sign that the necessary reorientation of global energy trends is under way. finally, i fully support this project also because it is closely linked to action to combat climate change.
in writing. energy is a european and even a global field par excellence: for reasons of resources, supply and efficiency, energy policy must be developed on a large scale. after durban last december, the rio+20 summit, to be held next june, is an opportunity to link development cooperation and energy issues in a concrete way: to propose objectives on ways of reducing energy poverty but also a roadmap to achieve universal access to energy, these are the global issues. however, these must be combined with local energy strategies: we must think of local production, as it allows both to reduce costs and to promote the combination of different production methods. in this connection, i welcome the adoption of paragraph 37 which 'calls on the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries', considering the serious concerns raised by nuclear energy and the fact that we must embark on the transition through an energy mix.
in writing. since the beginning of my mandate, i have been working to create transversal links between the different areas of european policy that affect development. this report, which i have followed as a fictitious rapporteur, is one example among many. i voted in favour of this report because it is an incentive for the european union to move towards genuine universal access to energy, but not just any energy: renewable energy, in particular by reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. decentralized energy, to ensure access to energy in rural areas. small-scale energy, denouncing large infrastructures such as the belo monte dam that have unsustainable social and environmental impacts. we can also welcome the fact that the european right, which had tried in the committee on development to get funding from the commission and the member states or to encourage the use of nuclear energy in developing countries, failed in plenary.
in writing. the objective of 'universal access to energy by 2030' was launched under the mdgs. i voted against amendment no 37, which calls on the member states and the commission not to finance or encourage the use of nuclear energy in developing countries.
in writing. the report calls on the commission and the member states to work towards universal access to energy by 2030 and to fight energy poverty in general. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. it was also concerned that large-scale hydroelectric infrastructure remained a priority for the world bank and the european investment bank. i share your concerns and your recommendations. i also appreciate the reminder that european aid should not be made conditional on the participation of union companies or used to subsidize them. i regret, however, that this text is confined to the logic of the market and public-private partnerships, the limits of which it denounces.
in writing. in its concern to promote and enable access to energy in developing countries insofar as this access contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), it seemed important to me that the european parliament respond to the united nations general assembly's proclamation of 2012 as the 'international year of sustainable energy for all'. however, mr neuser's report, which is very politically oriented, denies the right of developing countries to choose their energy policy freely by calling on 'the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries'. i therefore voted against this paragraph, which imposes choices on developing countries by limiting their sources of energy. nuclear power is a clean energy source, and one that could provide millions of citizens in developing countries with access to basic services such as electricity.
in writing. the objective of universal access to energy by 2030 was launched under the mdgs. in developing countries, households tend to spend a higher percentage of their budget on the purchase of poor quality fuels for lighting and cooking than households with access to electricity and liquid and gaseous fuels. in developing countries, sustainable access to energy for the poor faces several obstacles, including the inability of the poorest to pay for services, investment costs, connection costs, and the lack of domestic capacity to manufacture the necessary energy generation equipment and spare parts. the report underlines that, although none of the mdgs is specifically energy-related, access to modern and sustainable energy services for all is a prerequisite for the achievement of the mdgs. energy should therefore be placed at the forefront of the debate on poverty eradication through the establishment of a specific programme focusing on energy and development within the framework of the european union's development cooperation policy. it is on these priorities that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. more than a third of people worldwide do not have adequate facilities to cook their food, and 1.3 billion individuals do not have access to electricity at all. convinced that the fight against poverty also requires the development of access to energy, i supported the report on eu development cooperation towards the goal of universal access to energy by 2030, launched by un secretary-general ban ki-moon. both the commission and the member states should support the development of public-private partnerships in the energy sector and the transfer of technologies - particularly those with high energy efficiency - between the southern partner countries and between europe and the south. the text rightly reaffirms that the responsibility for access to universal services, and in particular the provision of affordable energy for poor and remote populations, lies with the state. we therefore ask the commission to publish a communication on development cooperation in the field of universal access to energy later this year and to report annually on progress made in the field of universal access to energy.
in writing. according to the international energy agency, about 1.3 billion people do not have access to electricity. the united nations general assembly has therefore designated 2012 as the year of sustainable energy for all and has set itself the objective of universal access to energy by 2030. i supported this report because access to modern energy services is essential to the exercise of certain fundamental economic, social and cultural rights. from lighting to refrigeration, from access to information to communication networks, electricity is essential and a condition for income creation. the challenge for the european union is to reconcile access to energy for developing countries with respect for the environment. these countries have huge renewable energy potential which we need to tap into by providing sustainable and affordable energy services. to this end, technology transfer between europe and the countries of the south is a privileged vehicle and the involvement of the private sector is an element that should not be overlooked. in addition to the environmental dimension, local energy will enable poor and rural populations not served by conventional distribution networks to benefit from energy services.
in writing. access to modern energy sources is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction as it affects many aspects of the lives and livelihoods of the people and communities concerned. in the context of energy access in developing countries, i believe that the emphasis should be on renewable energy sources, as was proposed at the grenelle de l'environnement in france. i therefore voted to maintain paragraph 37 in the report which calls on the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries, given the serious concerns raised by this source of energy in terms of safety and sustainability.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted a report on the development policy launched by the un in september 2010, on 'universal access to energy by 2030'. this objective is based on the idea that access to energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. i voted for this report which sets out positive principles for the management of the two main eu cooperation mechanisms for access to energy: the european development fund and the eu energy facility. these funds are negotiated with the beneficiary countries under bilateral or regional agreements, on the principle of co-financing. the european parliament calls in particular for proposals from governmental and non-governmental actors for better use of funds and better adaptation to local needs. in addition, in this text the european parliament is in fact admitting the failure of the commercial approach in the energy field for developing countries. the text states that 'the lessons of the past should be learned: history shows that the success of energy access strategies depends on a strong government commitment and investment of public funds'.
in writing. the main aim of this report is to remove tax obstacles which are major barriers to growth and employment, and in this time of crisis this is perhaps what we need most. the harmonization of taxation in europe is the cornerstone of the growth and competitiveness of our small and mediumsized enterprises! these barriers must be removed, especially as administrative burdens and tax regimes particularly affect small and medium-sized enterprises. this report shows that these measures have reduced the tax burden on crossborder transactions and eliminated the distortions of competition suffered by businesses within the european union itself. but this report also means: avoiding double taxation, tax evasion, tax havens and increasing tax transparency. finally, it also makes a number of recommendations, ranging from the need to simplify vat systems to the importance of a low level of taxation for the social well-being of families and households, but also for competitiveness and the creation of new jobs.
in writing. this report is the first annual report of the ep on taxation, marking the growing role of our democratic assembly in eu decisions, which i welcome. it put forward a number of proposals for a relative harmonisation of taxation in specific areas, with a view to removing certain barriers which still hamper free movement and economic performance. i also welcome the attention paid to the fight against tax evasion in this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to take stock of the european union's action in the field of taxation and to make ambitious proposals for greater tax harmonisation in europe. such legislation would avoid double taxation and limit legal uncertainty for our businesses and citizens in the collection of taxes.
in writing. today, thanks to the rules you have established, starting with the free movement of capital, services and goods worldwide, the "captive" taxpayers, workers and smes, are increasingly punctuated, while the big fortunes and multinationals are happily practicing "tax optimization". do i need to remind you that behind that term are practices that are perfectly immoral and abusive but perfectly legal, at least according to your rules? so, of course, a country like france would need a real fiscal revolution to promote the purchasing power of its citizens, the dynamism of its enterprises, participation in public budgets for imports, which cost us thousands of jobs every year... but the solution is neither in a fiscal harmonization at european level, nor in the creation of new taxes at union level, as the report recommends. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's annual report on taxation, because it is a balanced report which recalls that taxation is still a matter of national sovereignty, while proposing new initiatives to improve the functioning of the internal market and increase european competitiveness. i supported in particular a provision criticising the fact that certain member states have concluded tax evasion agreements with third countries.
in writing. i agree with this report when it calls for a stronger and more rapid response to tax evasion and tax evasion. i also agree that we must tackle tax havens together and not just make bilateral agreements on the matter. but i do not agree with the transfer of the decision-making powers of the member states in tax policy to the union, with stronger control of budgetary procedures by the commission, with being faithful to the social market economy, with reducing public expenditure and with welcoming the european semester. i therefore vote against.
in writing. this report reassures us once again that excessive government debt is at the root of the financial crisis and that the efficiency of public spending must be controlled. it even goes so far as to stress the obligation of the states to implement measures to increase their tax revenues, without saying which ones, but we can imagine very well. in other words, the same old song. a few references to the fight against tax evasion and double taxation distortions can only persuade me to refuse to support such a report, especially since one even dares to speak of 'social welfare', but it is worth saying that there is no reference to the necessary tax harmonization from above, nor to the need for social convergence, nor even to the necessary support for industrial sectors and smes, and even less to the rejection of any social or environmental dumping.
in writing. i welcome the commission's report on eu competition policy, which details the benefits to consumers, as an essential tool for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. measures taken in the field of competition contribute to supporting financial stability and maintaining a level playing field in the internal market. given the nature of the crisis and the measures adopted to address it, our state aid rules and instruments have adapted and have been at the forefront of the strategy implemented by the commission. all the arrangements put in place by the commission, for example in the field of telecommunications or transport, make it possible to provide you with services at the best price. i support this policy of the european union, which is a constructive and stabilizing factor in the real economy in general.
in writing. despite the possibility of adopting a horizontal instrument of collective redress, the scope of which would be too broad and would pose risks to the competitiveness of the european union, mr schwab's report seemed to me to be generally satisfactory. it highlights the need for better supervision of potentially systemic institutions by means of merger control and the need for increased supervision of certain risk sectors. these are all key determinants of competitiveness, which will play a part in the recovery of the countries of the union. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is essentially aimed at defending the deepening of competition in the european union. improving price transparency and combating cartels and abuse of dominant positions are fundamental policies which need to be consolidated. the report also encourages the commission, which is already doing a considerable amount of work on consumer protection, to go even further in certain areas, such as introducing greater competition in the field of credit rating agencies.
in writing. i have supported this report, which is about the european commission's annual report on competition policy, and in which part of it is devoted to reflection on the establishment of a european system of collective redress in the field of competition policy.
in writing. i wanted to support the report by our colleague andreas schwab on the annual report on competition policy in the european union in 2010 presented by the european commission. it should be remembered that competition policy is one of the essential elements for removing the obstacles to the four freedoms within the european union, namely the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. this policy thus contributes to the defence of major objectives: the internal market and the protection of consumer interests. parliament also called on the commission to introduce into the regulation a detailed basis for the calculation of fines and new principles governing the imposition of fines, and to revise the guidelines for the calculation of fines. the amount of these fines can sometimes have very damaging consequences for the sustainability of european enterprises. here is a position i particularly wanted to support.
in writing. for 40 years now we have been fighting cartels, abuse of dominant positions and illegal state aid to better serve the public interest. this founding policy has allowed for healthy competition between firms and today ensures consumers a higher quality, a wider choice of products and services at more affordable prices. nevertheless, we must continue our efforts in markets which are little known until now, but which have been brought to light by the surprise crisis. i therefore wholeheartedly support this report which makes a relevant diagnosis of rating agencies. their miscalculations in 2007 and their misreporting in 2011 have exacerbated the historic crisis we are going through and have shown us the need to end this oligopoly. in order to establish fairer and more responsible diagnoses, it is essential to have more competition in financial analysis, while strengthening the credibility of small agencies. this regulation will in no way be a means for the member states to evade their commitments to control expenditure. it is simply a matter of ensuring that the thermometer of global finance is working properly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you've got it right. there are three agricultural reports and discussions which should be merged.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as we speak, more than 600 people have died in europe, victims of the cold and above all of isolation. it is an opportunity to remind people that europe is not just an economic and financial affair, but above all a matter of solidarity, and the cold wave affecting our people gives us an opportunity to demonstrate this. so what do we find? that the food stocks available to european food aid programmes are at their lowest, and we have asked here for help for the ngos that are dealing with this. that some eu countries have taken these programmes hostage and have only extended them until 2013, citing a problem with the legal basis. it is also clear that too little is being done to address the real scandal of food waste. i am thinking here of all the waste that is thrown away every day by supermarkets, when we know that there are associations that do not have enough food to distribute it at the moment. it is time to respond by embracing our solidarity networks. i know, having been mayor of a village for many years, that this is where things start and i welcome the networks of spontaneous help that have developed in recent weeks. they are the most effective and they are the ones we should support. we must also respond by extending the european food aid programme. it is also time to react by promoting a common energy policy. indeed, what do we see? now, gas and electricity are being cut off from needy people who can't afford to pay. we are far too slow to react in all our countries. here, too, we must call for help. finally, mr michel, we must update the basic plan for european civil protection, which we are so lacking. we must act to prevent the same tragedies and emergencies from recurring year after year. we know them, and we have to be prepared. we must give the means to our ngos and our citizens who are dealing with these matters and not to large organisations.
the cold wave that has hit europe in recent weeks has already killed several hundred people, most of them homeless. but if these winter deaths are causing a great deal of public concern today, we know very well that in summer too the victims of this unbearable precariousness are as many or even more numerous. because, yes, the cold kills. but beyond the cold, it is the crisis, the misery and the precariousness that kill the most excluded people. the union has more than three million homeless people, among whom we no longer find only the traditional figures of the great marginalised, but increasingly elderly people, young people, women and families. some of these homeless people are employees. we must be aware that in times of economic crisis, the slide into extreme poverty can be very rapid. a family breakdown, a job loss, can throw a family out on the street that used to be doing fine. and being homeless can have many realities that need to be addressed. this is all people who sleep in their car, in a hotel or who can benefit from temporary accommodation with a relative. we need to change our collective perceptions of the situation of homelessness because this is a subject that touches multiple audiences and multiple situations. they all call for a comprehensive, rapid and strong political response. we have an obligation to act not only to deal with the emergency but also in the long term. if getting out of the crisis is the main objective, it also starts with giving those who are homeless the means to get out of the streets and emergency facilities. because it is clear that without sustained access to affordable housing, homeless people are excluded from many other rights and services. the indignation will be easily shared, as will the analysis of the situation. so let us move on to the next step, which is political will. commissioner, this parliament has already asked you on several occasions to put in place a genuine european strategy against homelessness. i am thinking of the written declaration of 2010 and the resolution of our colleagues berès and delli, adopted here in september 2011, with a view to ending homelessness by 2015. it was also the ambitious integrated european strategy we are waiting for. i am also thinking of the resolution by our colleague mr daerden last november on the european platform against poverty and exclusion. so, on three occasions already, members have asked you to set up this homeless strategy, articulated around specific objectives, which i cannot, for lack of time, afford to repeat again. where are we on that road map? when will the commission demand from the states that they have real national strategies with real resources? what amounts of esf and erdf funds can be mobilised? today, we fear that the european platform against poverty and social exclusion will remain a declaration of intent. the same applies to the year 2010 which, unfortunately, did not bring much concrete results. the union's policy objectives and priorities, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy, require inclusive growth. how can we achieve real social cohesion without fighting these extreme precarious situations? this is an issue which cannot be left to the goodwill and limited resources of the associative world and local authorities. it is no longer acceptable that in times of crisis the european union should appear only as the instigator of austerity plans which literally and figuratively push people into the streets. i refuse to give in to the ease of accusing the union of only wanting to save the banks and abandoning the people. we have here an opportunity to fight against this caricature. it is essential to take this into account and not to be content with declarations of intent. there is little merit in saying that we are fiercely opposed to the plight of the homeless. it's a subject of easy indignation. on the other hand, there is much to be done and that is why we are calling once again for voluntary and concrete action on behalf of the homeless.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i am angry, i tell you, and i am not going to let that happen. two years ago, the consensus conference, under the belgian presidency, was the very pilot of a european strategy for the homeless. the european parliament has drawn up a written declaration in favour of the homeless. there's no answer! i am the author of the resolution in favour of a european strategy for the homeless. the commission does not respond to our request, which remains unanswered. i regret today that there is no one in the council, whereas it is the responsibility of the member states to guarantee the right to housing benefit to all those who do not have sufficient resources. in the past two weeks, the cold wave has killed more than 600 people, it has been repeated. i've often said that homeless people don't just die in the winter. they sleep on the streets all year long and their rights are violated. european citizens expect more from the european union today. it must be supportive, active, in the face of the distress of the most vulnerable. the situation is more than worrisome. let me give you a few examples. in greece, the number of homeless people has increased by 25 percent in two years. in hungary, homeless people are hunted by the police and threatened with heavy fines. in france, we see the emergence of laws that criminalize begging, the gathering of food from garbage cans. where are we going? the fact is that the austerity policies of governments are having disastrous consequences. my dear colleagues, let us call for a wake-up call. we can change things. i am very clear, commissioner, that the european union must play its part in the solidarity between the european states and peoples. we must convene the ministers concerned as a matter of urgency. it's not about saving the banks anymore. this is about saving lives. we're just too late. each member state must report to the commission on the measures implemented since the cold snap. a relief fund must be mobilised immediately to help the most vulnerable. states that do not comply with their obligations to assist the most deprived must be sanctioned, in particular those that criminalize the homeless or deny certain categories of people access to emergency shelter. finally, mr barnier, the commission must immediately put in place a european strategy for the homeless. the objective is clear, and we have said it here, ladies and gentlemen, that no one should be sleeping on the streets by 2015. it's an emergency. to dream, you must have a place to sleep. if we allow this, the cold silence of european officials will create a lack of trust among the citizens. you really need to do something about this . (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating mr masip hidalgo and the fictitious rapporteurs. why is this legislative initiative so important? because at the moment some political leaders, some members of our parliament are not yet convinced of the need to provide effective protection for intellectual property rights. however, there is evidence that infringements of intellectual property rights have had adverse economic consequences for businesses and employment. but the statistical studies that supported this were criticized. their impartiality has been questioned. today, the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights, using experts and stakeholders representing different sectors and interests, will operate in a transparent manner and provide objective, reliable, relevant and comparable data on the value of intellectual property rights and infringements. its forum will enable exchanges of views and discussion on new economic models which promote the development of legal supply. i really believe that this development is a fundamental step in helping national authorities and the private sector to protect european creation, innovation and know-how in the internal market and beyond. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am perfectly capable of answering this question, since so-called civil society will be consulted, will participate in the discussion forum and will give its views. the small and mediumsized enterprises are therefore clearly concerned and will be able to make their voices heard. we cannot, until this tool, which is a formidable technical tool, is put into practice, show any lack of confidence. we must believe in it and combine our efforts to make it work as well as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you know how much i appreciate your actions and everything you do. the subject we're discussing tonight is important. i happened to be the rapporteur for the payment services directive in the previous mandate. i know how important the work is to harmonize payment services in europe. let me just say tonight that there is a very vexing issue: multilateral exchange commissions. i have been defending these fees from the beginning and i had the opportunity to say so when we launched the first sepa transfer in 2007. the interchange fees are legitimate. what is not is the setting of amounts when they are excessive. why are these commissions legitimate? because the payments department is a commercial service. the institutions, banks or payment institutions created by title 2 of the directive i mentioned earlier must be engaged in commercial activities. it is therefore natural that they should receive a remuneration. this must obviously be justified by the service provided and, from this point of view, interchange fees - it is true - have been set excessively high for a certain period. but now things have changed and the situation we are in with this new text, this regulation, is quite paradoxical. firstly, this text resolves a question which was under discussion at the european court of justice; swap commission shall be allowed until 2017 at national level; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the exchange of information are respected. all this is not very coherent. what has been done this time should not serve as an example of what will be done with bank cards in future regulations. the idea of a european exchange commission is not a new one. why would you do that? because elsewhere there is no transparency; the payment service is paid for through other remuneration, for example, the remuneration of the check-book keepers.
deputy author. - madam president, commissioner, i am sure you are aware of how precise lawyers are, sometimes impatient to solve the most difficult legal problems, and i must say that in the juri committee even non-lawyers are impatient. the european commission has been consulting on the issue of copyright management since the mid-1990s. it has published a series of papers, communications and working papers on this subject, which have been followed by public consultations. parliament had already called for the establishment of a community framework for collective management organisations in the field of copyright and related rights in its resolution of 15 january 2004 and also in its resolutions of 13 march 2007 and 25 september 2008. during this parliamentary term, parliament reiterated its request, notably in its resolution of 12 may 2011 entitled 'unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries' and in the report bearing my name, which was adopted on 22 september 2010. as you stated in your communication of 24 may 2011, the forthcoming proposal on collective management of copyright should contribute to the creation of a genuine digital single market. there must be pan-european or multi-territorial licences. but we are aware of the difficulty of re-aggregating directories which would allow one entity to license a set of directories. the collective management companies must also guarantee cultural diversity by stimulating creativity, but we know the language and cultural barriers. finally, collective management companies must ensure that all creators, from the international star to the lesser-known authors, are supported and paid. how do you intend to ensure in your proposal that there is a balance between, on the one hand, this necessary modernisation of collective management, particularly for all uses on the internet, and, on the other hand, the protection and remuneration of creators in cultural diversity?
madam president, commissioner, i join my colleagues in calling for the issue of collective management companies to be dealt with quickly. i agree with the proposals you have just made on harmonising horizontal rules on transparency and on rules on online music. i would like to stress, however, the objective of fair remuneration for artists. indeed, since the beginning of the mandate, for a few years now, the issue of the remuneration of artists has been raised exclusively from the angle of infringements of intellectual property rights, making internet users the scapegoats for the lack of income of artists. this is to forget that, for example, on each cd, authors and performers receive, on average, only 6% of the sales price and that on online music sales sites they receive barely a penny, or 1% per song sold. fair remuneration for artists must therefore be at the heart of our review of collective management in the digital age. of course, we need more transparency. in france, the standing committee on the supervision of management and distribution companies published a damning report last year, for example, on the remuneration of executives of these companies. the committee also denounced a cascade of invoicing and deductions for costs. the artist must be the centre of attention and many voices from all political tendencies denounce a system that ends up giving more importance to intermediaries than to artists - this is what neelie kroes said - or even an opaque and confiscatory system as the french minister of culture has stated. commissioner, i therefore believe that if we are to review these collective management rights, the optimal perception of intellectual property rights must be our objective and purpose. these are conditions which are not included in the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights but which are an essential prerequisite for users to respect these rights.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, is it normal for the commission to decide with the member states to redeploy funds and for parliament to be faced with the fait accompli? we are told that 82 billion euros of funds have not been consumed and will not be by 2013. we are asked to take your word for it, but i ask that we look at it more clearly. how can we be sure in 2012 that these funds will not be spent before the end of the programming period? i am saying that none of the regions which were originally receiving these funds should be penalised by this redeployment. but is the reason for this redeployment not to be found elsewhere? is it not to mitigate the devastating effects of the austerity policies currently being implemented throughout the european union? to mitigate the effects of the crisis, it would have been much more sensible to mobilise new resources. mobilize new resources to finance genuine growth and youth employment policies. in these new resources, i am thinking of the financial transaction tax, which we have been calling for for a very long time and which still has to be implemented.
madam president, commissioner, this initiative is based on a good feeling. the work on education and training must be a priority when it is both the basic condition for the employability of our young people and an investment in the future, a guarantee of our ability to maintain dynamic and sustainable development. that said, i remain deeply doubtful about the overall coherence of european action. if the union is not able to provide real solutions for growth, if it remains obsessed with punitive austerity, sterile austerity, austerity for the sake of austerity, there will be no growth for our small and mediumsized enterprises, no jobs for our young people and all our efforts will be in vain. similarly, if the fight against youth unemployment is our priority, how do you explain, commissioner, your proposal to reduce by almost 50% certain funds allocated to the outermost regions? the regions where youth unemployment sometimes exceeds 60%, the regions you promised to preserve, are the most affected. where is the consistency, where is the justice? this is unacceptable and we will oppose it.
madam president, first of all i would like to say to you all that we are very happy here in strasbourg. that's a message i'm always passing along. commissioner, president barroso's proposal has the merit of showing that the european union, through the structural funds, has important public investment instruments at its disposal. in these difficult times for national public finances, this is worth emphasizing. according to the president of the commission, €82 billion not allocated over the period 2007-2013 could be redirected towards supporting smes and fighting youth unemployment. i wonder, like our president danuta hübner, where this sum came from. it would seem that president barroso is referring to unprogrammed appropriations, but which have already been allocated to the member states and allocated to operational programmes. i doubt whether it would be worthwhile to redirect these appropriations. this may upset the programming of the funds without being beneficial on the ground. i would also like to point out that the structural funds are already making a major contribution to smes and youth employment. this must also remain a priority for the next programming period. i would like to take this opportunity to remind my colleague mr omarjee, who was speaking earlier, that president sarkozy has decided to implement the taxation of financial transactions in france, in case he has not taken note of this.
madam president, commissioner, we must not forget that this proposal is the counterpart to the adoption of a so-called 'golden rule'. it is precisely because this new treaty contains no provisions favourable to growth and employment that you have on the other hand this declaration which you are now responsible for implementing. when you are looking for good ideas to promote youth employment, i invite you to look at the work of this parliament because, indeed, we have prepared a report on youth employment in which i think you would find good proposals. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. on the one hand, when the golden rule is to be compensated for, the aim is to mobilise the structural funds, but on the other hand, the aim is to use them to punish the member states. there comes a point where you have to choose where your coherence is. how can you accept that the european union should be allowed to run on two feet? then, as we begin the discussion on the financial perspective, the movement initiated by president barroso basically appeals to us. does the budget of the european union not need to be able to have resources available for countercyclical measures, depending on the economic situation? in that case, are the proposals you have made for the future structural funds scheme adapted to the crisis situation in the european union?
in writing. i am glad that we are addressing today the issue of the 'recovery plan' mentioned by mr barroso at the last european council and covered by the media everywhere, and the famous €82 billion available for smes and youth employment. youth unemployment in the european union has reached 22.3%. in spain, it is 46%. the commission is right to make this a priority for investment and public action. similarly, the 23 million smes in europe are the vital capillary tissue of the economic development of our territories and must receive special attention. however, to suggest that the european union has 82 billion euros in its coffers which have not been spent and which the commission can use as it wishes risks disturbing our citizens and indicating a serious lack of rigorous and planned management of the structural funds. the commission must therefore use its pedagogical skills to emphasize the importance of long-term programming of the erdf and the esf, the responsibility of the member states and the regions in their management, and then use its expertise to support the implementation of projects to simplify their consumption as much as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a minute to draw your attention to the acta treaty, an international anti-counterfeiting treaty which is not limited to counterfeiting. patents, activities on the net are clearly included in the text under unacceptable conditions. last saturday, tens of thousands of people demonstrated across europe. more than two million citizens signed a petition opposing the treaty. several governments are backing down - poland, the czech republic, romania, slovakia - in the name of defending civil rights. germany has suspended its decision pending the position of the european parliament. nineteen sakharov prize winners and several ngos have expressed their opposition. but the european commission is turning a blind eye and trying to force its way in. today i am making an appeal to the representatives of the european people, of all parties, in this parliament. ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens are counting on us to ensure that the freedom of expression, the freedom of information, access to generic medicines, personal data and their privacy, which are threatened by this treaty, are respected and protected. they are counting on us to defend their freedoms and their fundamental rights and to block acta as it is presented to us. we must not let them down, we must be demanding and say no, vote against acta.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, for once i agree with our colleague chris davies: no fish, no fishermen! the situation of the western chinchard multiannual plan is of concern to us today for several reasons. this management plan was adopted by parliament in november 2010 to ensure sustainable management of the stock. parliament has been waiting for the council's first reading ever since. it is therefore essential that the council adopt a position on this matter. as long as the situation is blocked, the stock of chinchard is abandoned and the resource is threatened. the reason for this is an institutional conflict which must be resolved as soon as possible. like my colleagues, i am of the opinion that the ordinary legislative procedure applies to the management plan. parliament has shown itself open to discussion by introducing flexibility in the method of calculating fishing opportunities. the council must now justify its lack of position at first reading. this blockage also delays related issues such as anchovy and all future multiannual plans. we also ask the commission to facilitate the dialogue between parliament and the council. on the eve of the reform of the cfp, in which we must make management plans general, we must overcome this institutional blockage which is detrimental to the conservation of resources. i am also very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of quotas for fishery products. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say again that we are in strasbourg, the only seat of parliament under the treaties.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, my question is to commissioner michel barnier. where is the commission, please, with regard to the drawing up of the texts giving status to the actors in the social and solidarity economy: mutual societies, foundations and cooperatives? they have an essential role as a crisis cushion and job creator and must therefore be protected, supported and encouraged very quickly. finally, if something concrete is being prepared for the social economy, can we really be satisfied with a simple communication on a quality framework for services of general interest which also need a genuine legal status of protection in these times of economic and social crisis?
the commissioner knows as well as we do, and on this point parliament and the commission must work together, how important this sector is precisely for social cohesion and how much it needs legal certainty to operate in our territories.
in writing. established in 1994, the ohim is the european agency responsible for the procedures relating to the registration of community trade marks, designs and models. i am committed to the respect of intellectual property rights and voted in favour of the hidalgo report which calls for an extension of the role of the ohim in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.
in writing. i welcome the vote this week on the integration of the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy into the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). because the economic well-being of the european union also depends on the maintenance of its creativity, cultural diversity and capacity for innovation, i believe that this merger benefits both our businesses, innovators and consumers. the observatory, which was set up in 2009, will now benefit from better funding and state-of-the-art expertise. with this text, we will further improve the quality of information and statistics on counterfeiting and piracy in the eu internal market and continue to define and disseminate the best control strategies and techniques implemented in the public and private sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of intellectual property rights. i think it is important to raise awareness among citizens about the threats posed by counterfeiting and piracy. because we live in an age where technology makes it easy for us to access different content, it is essential to ensure the protection of the people behind that content. i note that the new tasks assigned to the office, which becomes the 'european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights', at the same time strengthen the competent national authorities. i welcome the new possibility for the observatory to submit recommendations at the request of the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which gives the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs - ohim) new powers in the protection of intellectual property rights, in particular in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy. strengthening protection against these two scourges will help to avoid damage to the european economy and to the health and safety of our citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen the role of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy. the main objectives are to increase public and private sector awareness of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and to inform consumers about the dangers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to give the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) certain tasks relating to the management of the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy in order to combat infringements of intellectual property rights. the ultimate aim is to raise awareness in the public and private sectors of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mr antonio masip hidalgo on the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and the protection of intellectual property rights. the new tasks assigned to ohim by this new regulation will help to better ensure the enforcement of intellectual property rights and to avoid the significant damage caused by counterfeiting and piracy to the european economy and to the health and safety of european citizens. i particularly welcome the establishment of a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy within the framework of the ohim, which will allow for a better exchange of information and concerted action between the various actors, both private and public.
in writing. in a single market where there is an increasing number of cross-border activities, the management of company registers can no longer be done at national level alone. it must also be done at european level. that is why i voted in favour of the lechner report which calls for the networking of the member states' trade and companies registers. this networking will facilitate cross-border access to company information, reduce administrative burdens, enhance legal certainty and transparency, and increase market confidence.
in writing. as you know, i am an active advocate of an ever more integrated internal market which makes life easier for hundreds of millions of european citizens. i therefore approved the proposal for a directive on the interconnection of business registers put forward by my colleague from the european people's party (epp), kurt lechner, and put forward by our internal market commissioner, michel barnier. as someone who has worked in the private sector, i know how useful it is to have this information centrally. moreover, many companies today operate across borders and need to have uniform, clear and transparent information about their partners, customers, competitors, etc. not only are there no standardised registers, but they can be national, regional or even local, depending on the country. this is a waste of time and money, as the administrative costs of these disparities are estimated at eur 69 million per year. the information in this new register will be available in the 23 languages of the european union via a single european electronic platform. we now hope that the member states, in the council of ministers, will follow our recommendations, which are a crucial issue for all european entrepreneurs.
in writing. the european union, which has allowed the free movement of people and capital, must respond to the growing demand for access to company information. this access to information is a strategic economic issue for our companies, which are increasingly developing cross-border strategies. i therefore voted in favour of the interconnection of national trade registers, in order to facilitate the development of our businesses abroad.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to set up a network linking electronically the trade registers of the member states. this is a purely technical interconnection of existing national registers and not a legal harmonisation. this report is all the more necessary as companies increasingly tend to operate across national borders.
in writing. national and european companies are increasingly taking advantage of the benefits of the internal market within the european union and are increasingly operating across national borders. the purpose of this report, which i voted for, is to develop crossborder cooperation between trade registers in order to allow easier access to information on companies in a crossborder context, whether for commercial or legal reasons. this is a purely technical interconnection of existing national registers and not a harmonisation of their legal consequences.
in writing. the proposal before us aims to enable cross-border electronic access to essential data of companies established in one or more member states. the proposal on which we are voting provides for the interoperability and interconnection of the central commercial and company registers of the member states - by networking them - and the obligation for the member states to ensure that the registers are kept up to date (in particular as regards the status of companies and their branches, their possible deletion, their legal form, etc.). i am pleased that the trilogue at the end of january allowed the reintroduction of a reference to directive 95/46 on the use of personal data, which had been removed - i think wrongly - from the draft text during the negotiations. i supported this text as its implementation will increase the reliability of the information available to companies, their (existing or potential) trading partners and citizens, as well as stimulate cross-border trade and improve the transparency of the world of economics.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new fisheries protocol between the eu and guinea-bissau. it will allow member states to fish in the latter's waters in exchange for financial compensation to help it develop its fisheries policy. since the protocol is an international agreement concluded between the member states, the european parliament's approval is essential for its application under the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. despite its many assets, such as its natural resources and its enormous agricultural and fisheries potential, guinea-bissau is facing major challenges. the european union and guinea-bissau have longstanding agreements in the fisheries sector. i was in favour of renewing this agreement, which provides that european fishermen, mainly french, portuguese and spanish, can come and fish in guinea-bissau's territorial waters against an annual fee of eur 9.2 million per year. the previous agreement was for only €7.5 million per year, but this year €3 million will support fisheries development and help the country to strengthen one of its strengths.
in writing. i welcome the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau, which expired in march 2012. this agreement is a continuation of the cotonou agreement, which marks the rapprochement between the eu and the acp states. guinea-bissau, which has extensive fisheries resources, has also established partnerships with china and senegal. for strategic reasons and to supply our market, it is important that the european union maintain a partnership in the fisheries sector with this country. i also believe that such partnerships are essential to help develop the fisheries sector in the acp countries. this is good news for all fishermen, both european and guinea-bissau.
in writing. i voted in favour of this protocol renewing the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement in order to avoid any disruption of the french tuna fleet's activities off the west african coast, which would be harmful to our fishermen and, ultimately, to consumers.
in writing. after 16 years of systematic rejection by the green group of fisheries agreements with unsustainable environmental and social consequences, we have decided to take each case on a case-by-case basis. the agreement with guinea-bissau was suspended for one year because of the lack of respect for human rights. today i abstained on that agreement. on the one hand, there has been significant improvement in human rights, but much remains to be done. and if the fisheries sector represents 7% of the economy in guinea-bissau, without this agreement the union would send a message of 'abandonment' and there would be a clear risk of leaving this sector in the hands of the mafia. on the other hand, the agreement does not provide a satisfactory answer to the environmental and social consequences, especially for small-scale fishermen.
in writing. adopted unanimously by the parliamentary committee on fisheries, this report aims to support the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau concluded on 17 march 2008.
in writing. for several years now, the kingdom of morocco has been engaged in a process of political, economic and social reform. having worked with morocco for several years, i supported the deepening of this cooperation, as it is conditional on the efforts made by the country. i am therefore in favour of morocco's participation in the work of the community agencies and community programmes. in 2008, we had already adopted an "eu-morocco joint document on the strengthening of bilateral relations/advanced status", as part of the european neighbourhood policy. the aim was to respond to moroccan aspirations by moving towards a gradual integration of morocco into the internal market. it is our duty to pursue a structured and frank dialogue with morocco, particularly on human rights. i therefore approved this protocol, which is an act of strong support and encouragement by the european union to morocco's efforts to deepen the reforms undertaken, ensuring the effective participation of its citizens. instead of closing our doors to morocco, let us encourage the country to respect its commitments, to come closer to our standards and to share our values!
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to deepen the existing partnership with the kingdom of morocco. morocco enjoys an 'advanced status' with the european union and actively cooperates on political, economic and financial matters. it is our responsibility to help this country to gradually integrate into the internal market and to show that we are able to respond positively to the desire for openness and dialogue expressed by the moroccan nation. the kingdom of morocco's participation in all community programmes represents an important step in supporting the reforms undertaken by the moroccan authorities. i would also like to point out that this protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement is in line with the objectives of the eu's new neighbourhood policy.
in writing. this eu-morocco agreement provides a framework for our future relations, to enable morocco to participate in eu programmes. it is a key element in deepening our relations with morocco and will allow for important sectoral rapprochements. it shall ensure the equitable participation of morocco in the budget of the union, corresponding to the specific programmes in which it will choose to participate. this is a key step in the ever closer ties which bind us to our moroccan partner, which has advanced status.
in writing. morocco is a privileged partner of the european union in the southern mediterranean region. the eu has a genuinely rich and in-depth dialogue with the country in various fields. the principle of 'advanced status' for morocco was recognised in 2008 as part of the european neighbourhood policy. the parliamentary elections of 25 november 2011 and the formation of a coalition government appointed on 3 january 2012 by king mohammed vi were major steps in the process of constitutional and democratic reform in the country. this is a movement which the european union naturally had to accompany. it's a done deal now. the european parliament gave its unreserved approval on tuesday to the protocol which will allow our strategic partner to participate in community programmes open to third countries such as the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip) or the customs 2013 programme.
in writing. morocco was granted advanced status by the european union in 2008. the aim was to take account of the strategic priorities to be pursued following the association agreement with morocco signed in 1996 and to enable morocco to be gradually integrated into the internal market. i supported this report, which aims to approve the conclusion of the protocol between the union and morocco to the euro-mediterranean association agreement.
in writing. the eu is engaged in a very thorough dialogue with morocco, a country which is peacefully moving towards greater democracy. the protocol on the participation of morocco in certain community programmes represents an important step towards enhancing relations between the eu and morocco (advanced status). signed in brussels in december 2010 and entered into force on 1 march 2000, it sets out the objectives of this increase, which is based on better taking into account the respective strategic priorities of both parties and the progressive integration of morocco into the european internal market. it provides for morocco to be allowed to participate in all current and future community programmes open to it. this new perspective is in line with the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy, which is why i supported it by voting in plenary.
in writing. i naturally voted in favour of this recommendation in the council, as it seems to me normal that the partnership between the union and the kingdom of morocco should be given a new lease of life. it was essential that our assembly send a strong political message to our moroccan friends. morocco's participation in eu programmes was envisaged as early as the conclusion of the association agreement in 1996 and then in the 2008 advanced status. for several years now, morocco has shown remarkable courage and determination to undertake profound reforms in favour of democracy, the rule of law and a strengthened dialogue with europe. it was therefore fitting to reward its efforts and to affirm its role as the eu's main partner in the arab world. this participation is not unconditional: it will be gradual and will be matched by a financial contribution from morocco to the general budget of the eu. it is also conditional on the continuation of reforms and the successful implementation of the new constitution, adopted at the end of 2011. i therefore welcome the decision taken by our parliament and am convinced that it will consolidate and enrich the eu-morocco strategic partnership.
in writing. while the eu has taken measures to control bluetongue as early as 2000, new measures to take account of new vaccination technologies are needed. i therefore voted in favour of the wojciechowski report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive which will finally allow our farmers to vaccinate their cattle, sheep and goats who are threatened by bluetongue, commonly known as 'blue tongue' disease. this disease, transmitted mainly by the bite of certain species of mosquitoes, affects sheep acutely but other ruminants are susceptible. even if the disease does not affect human health, either directly or through products, the consequences for livestock can be severe. the aim of this text is to update and relax the current rules on vaccination. i wanted this text to be passed quickly so that these new rules could be implemented as soon as the next vaccination season. i now urge the french government to transpose the directive into french law as soon as possible.
in writing. the objective of this report is to strengthen and improve the control of bluetongue and to reduce the burden of bluetongue on the agricultural sector. the aim is to adapt the current vaccination provisions to the recent development of the technologies used for vaccine production, a technology which has led to the development of 'inactivated vaccines' against the disease. i voted in favour of this report in the votes in plenary.
in writing. in favour of an integration of european payment markets, i supported the creation of a single european payments area (sepa). bank transfers between member states will be similar to national transfers. from now on, a single bank account will be sufficient to receive your salary, even if it is paid by another member state. similarly, there will be no further charges for transferring money to a foreign account. these provisions will enter into force for the euro area as from 2014.
in writing. as a member of the parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs, i welcome the new regulation on the single european payments area, which represents a major step forward for businesses and consumers. throughout its preparation, i have followed step by step the objectives of a text which requires banks to speed up and lower the cost of bank transfers and direct debits in 32 countries. as rapporteur sari essayah has said, 'if a person works in another member state, he will not need a new bank account. businesses will also benefit . you, as entrepreneurs and citizens, will be able to travel, pay your bills abroad or make transactions at cost price without having to set up a separate bank account. the european union is also about simplifying your everyday life!
in writing. the migration to the single euro payments area, or sepa, will have consequences for users, including individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, while converting the current system to a common eu-wide bank account numbering based on iban and bic codes. however, in order for the transition to this harmonised payment system within the eu to be well accepted, the banking sector needs to carry out large and targeted information campaigns to raise public awareness, including by explaining the composition of iban and bic codes. in addition, banks should generally apply a more transparent information policy in their customer activities. these steps are considered very important for the smooth and appropriate implementation of efficient and secure payment systems across the union and for the european citizens' acceptance of such changes. this is another step which may seem technical but which brings many simplifications to european companies exporting to the intra-community market.
in writing. with the single european payment area in euro, crossborder bank transfers will become faster, safer and cheaper. in concrete terms, as of 1 february 2014, eu citizens travelling within the union will be able to use a single bank account in euro to pay their wages in another member state. they will also be able to pay bills in one country through an account in another without having to worry about the country in which their bank account is located. the european parliament estimates that individuals and businesses will be able to save €123 billion over 6 years.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which will put an end to the bank charges that affect crossborder payments within the european union. they represent an additional cost to our businesses and our citizens, particularly significant in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. finally, we will have a genuine single euro payments area (sepa) which will make cross-border payments as easy as national payments. the benefits of this unified european system are: shorter payment times, better cash management for our companies and individuals, lower costs for these payments and their processing, and the conquest of new markets. on the other hand, it will reduce the level of requests and the associated operating costs of administrative services. the impact assessment estimates that the positive impact on the european economy of this approach would be between eur 100 and eur 300 billion over a six-year period. national electronic payment systems in the form of credit transfers or direct debits should be abolished within 12 and 24 months respectively after the entry into force of the regulation.
in writing. i supported the report by sari essayah on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical requirements for transfers and withdrawals in euro and amending regulation (ec) no 924/2009. the regulation will establish strict and transparent rules to cover the execution of all euro transfers and withdrawals in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to bring crossborder euro transfers and withdrawals within the eu under a single system. the establishment of a european payments market has many advantages, including the development of competition and the significant reduction of the cost of cross-border banking for citizens and businesses in the european union. according to an impact study, this measure would be likely to generate savings of between 100 and 300 billion over six years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation establishing technical and commercial requirements for transfers and withdrawals in euro. i believe that in the digital age we can demand that our european banks remove the obstacles to transfers and withdrawals denominated in euro for intra-european transactions. by 1 february 2014, banks should have switched to a new single european payment area in euro and thus offer the same rates for cross-border and domestic transfers. this is a very concrete step forward for citizens who see the idea of a europe where trade between member states is simplified come to life. as trade and the movement of europeans across europe intensify, money transfers increase and their costs to customers vary or are non-existent across member states. this regulation establishes common rules and standards.
in writing. in the sepa (single euro payments area), citizens, businesses and public authorities can make and receive payments in euro under the same conditions, regardless of their geographical location. however, the migration to sepa through self-regulation has not been conclusive: important measures have not yet been fully deployed and national systems are still operating in parallel with the new system. i supported this report, which reflects the agreement between our three institutions on the final migration to the sepa by regulation, with a deadline of 1 february 2014. by then at the latest, we will be able to enjoy the full benefits of an integrated payments market: cross-border payments will be as simple as national payments and will be faster, safer and cheaper. transfers will reach the recipient by the end of the next working day at the latest and the amounts transferred will no longer be charged. companies will apply a single set of standards and be able to organise all their crossborder payments in euro from a single account of their choice, improving financial management and speeding up cash flows at a lower cost. i'm going to february 1st, 2014!
in writing. i have followed the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control on the proposal of the council of ministers to appoint mr baudilio tomé muguruza as a member of the court of auditors. baudilio tomé muguruza is an economist, tax lawyer and international affairs specialist, and is highly qualified for this position. the committee had the opportunity to hear him. i have full confidence in its competence and am now awaiting the final decision of the council of ministers of the european union.
in writing. after intense internal debate on the appointment of a member of the court of auditors proposed by the former spanish government of josé luis zapatero, the european parliament finally approved the appointment of the new candidate proposed by the current government of mariano rajoy. thanks to the mobilisation of the epp group, mr baudilio tomé muguruza, who had all the qualifications required for this post, was approved by parliament, despite the opposition of the socialists who had tried to politicise the debate.
in writing. i welcome the appointment of mr baudilio tomé as a member of the european court of auditors. i supported his appointment because of his technical and ethical qualities.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am very pleased that a solution has been found for the 2012 and 2013 plans, allowing us to continue this programme. i would remind you that after more than three years of intensive negotiations between the institutions, we have finally succeeded - as mr siekierski has mentioned - in giving a new legal framework to this programme for the years 2012 and 2013, which were no longer covered following the court of justice's ruling. it is probably not necessary to point out that the european union is going through one of the most serious economic crises in recent decades and that, unfortunately, the number of citizens who are requesting food aid is increasing exponentially. it was therefore our political and civic responsibility to respond immediately to the needs of the most deprived. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament as a whole, and in particular the members who have personally been very strongly in favour of the continuation of these programmes. it is also thanks to your strong support that a compromise on this complicated issue has been found, and in particular thanks to your insistence and your very clear position on this issue. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the member states, who, while showing a genuine european spirit, have worked to finally reach a political compromise. the commission therefore supports the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations and can accept the council's position at first reading with a view to ensuring the continuation of the scheme until 2013. as you know, the commission has done everything it can to make this agreement possible. i would remind you that since our first proposal in 2008, we have proposed several adjustments to the regulatory text to try to respond to the expectations and objections of some member states as well as to the calls of the european parliament. now that a qualified majority has finally emerged in favour of continuing the programme for a transitional period until 2013, we have the political agreement and, after the decision, the legal basis to continue this programme in 2012 and 2013 within the framework of the common agricultural policy and thus avoid abruptly stopping the programme. once the regulation is adopted, my services will make every effort to ensure that the additional resources for the 2012 and 2013 plans are committed as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, an agreement has been reached, on which we will have to decide tomorrow in plenary, and i must say that all this gives me a curious impression. first i'm happy, then i wonder, and then i worry. i am glad that the needy europeans can, this year and next, feed themselves thanks to the european programme for the poorest. our fellow citizens would obviously not have understood that nothing is being done to release these much-needed funds when we have recently learned that 82 billion euros of unused european funds are lying dormant in the union's coffers. then i wonder, and then i worry. i wonder about the future of the sdp. how can we imagine that as of 2014, some 13 million europeans in need will be cut off from food? and how many will there be at that time? the solutions exist, we know them. so let us call on the council to take its responsibilities to make this fund sustainable in the next multiannual financial framework. if it were not, we would have to assume a terrible boomerang effect which would undoubtedly be dramatic. let us accept this compromise but reaffirm, together, our commitment to the spd.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i really thank you for your support, which has made this possible. this is a good sign of what we can do between institutions when we work together and i hope we can continue to do so. i would like to make two points. the first, also in the context of the intergroup on the fight against extreme poverty, of which i am now the chairman, is that i believe there is a real issue that we cannot avoid in europe, namely subsidiarity and what is the responsibility of each level of decision-making. i respect this principle, and there are colleagues in my group who have a much stricter and more legal interpretation of subsidiarity. it can be seen that it is only the member states and the local level that have the responsibility to look after the poorest. however, i think it would be a very serious mistake to leave europe to play the role of father fouettard, the role of the institution that imposes austerity plans, and to consider that everything that helps the most vulnerable people in our society is a matter for the local level alone. i would like to call on the commissioner to defend the europe 2020 strategy. i am very concerned to see that in the european council conclusions we have moved from the europe 2020 strategy to the euro plus pact, where there is no longer any question of fighting against exclusion and poverty. secondly, in the context of the reform of the cap, i also believe that the question of food should be considered in the context of the common agricultural policy. i have no solution today, i am not taking a definite position. there is, however, a social aspect to aiding the most deprived and there is also an aspect which, in my view, falls within the common agricultural policy. what kind of food does the common agricultural policy provide? at what cost? for those who cannot perhaps finance themselves, is it a solution to go to charity or, on the contrary, should we have a cap that ensures food for all? i think that was the spirit of the founders of the cap. we shall have the opportunity to discuss this and i am counting on you, commissioner, to help us to think things over and, above all, to take concrete measures for all.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what we are being asked to vote on tomorrow is the abolition in 2014 of the european food aid programme for the poorest, because no guarantees have been given so far as to future programming. let's face it, this is a disgrace! it is a shame that a blocking minority has organized itself around germany to prevent the feeding of the hungry. it is a shame that this is also a sign of what the european union has become, a union which sacrifices solidarity on the altar of ultra-liberal and bureaucratic logic. we must not be complacent about the fact that the european project is now helping to crush the weakest. when it comes to finding billions for the banks, we bend the law. on the other hand, when it comes to giving the most basic alms to the poor, legal arguments are invoked. the positions of germany, the court of justice of the european union and its judges, who have obviously lost all contact with reality, are absolutely indefensible for our group. these decisions are fuelling the growing dislike between the people and the european union.
commissioner, more than 43 million europeans are at risk of food poverty. it is therefore with some relief that we welcome the news of the extension of the european food aid programme until 2014. the poorest will continue to find in the associations the indispensable support they need at a time when the demands are increasing. but the real question is after. what happens after 2014? is the promise to reduce poverty in the union by a quarter by 2020 not a pipe dream? we must provide the means to achieve this objective. we will therefore ensure that the new financial framework sustains this programme within the framework of cohesion policy in order to ensure that member states in need can really benefit from this aid. but there is one condition: this transfer to the esf must be accompanied by a sufficient budget to ensure that no one is left behind. it is the question of solidarity between the peoples of europe that is at stake. finally, commissioner, the poorest people also have the right to a healthy and balanced diet. only a truly sustainable cap will ensure that fewer europeans will need food aid in the future.
question for the council mr president, if i believe my colleague, it is because some people do not know how to cook and use food that a good deal of it is wasted and those who have nothing cannot eat. explain to us how we feed ourselves when we have zero euros to go shopping!
mr president, we must of course welcome the fact that the member states have finally reached an agreement to ensure the immediate future of the european food aid programme for the poorest citizens. this agreement was vital for millions of europeans who are suffering from the crisis, but it is far, far from sufficient. it is conditional on the end of the pead in 2014 and on the german chancellor's wish, which unfortunately has not been contradicted, that europe no longer finances any social policy of this type after that date. we are europe. we have common values and ideals to defend: peace, prosperity, of course, but also solidarity and the right to dignity, given that dignity is the opposite of humiliation... (the president asks the speaker to slow down)
mr president, commissioner, some people are now saying that this project has nothing to do with the common agricultural policy. i told them no. it is now very clear that the aim of the common agricultural policy was to ensure food security, to ensure that products are affordable for all consumers, by ensuring the income of farmers. the basic charter of the first integrated european policy is therefore to feed all the citizens of europe. today, when we are able to transfer money from the cap surplus to finance iter to the tune of almost five hundred million euros, how is it that some people in some states are questioning five hundred million euros to help the poorest? we've now got an agreement until 2014. i think that afterwards we will have to link the cap with social systems to enable the poorest to have access to this food. we shall be working on this and i hope that in the agricultural policy a special effort will be made to ensure that the poorest also have direct access to production.
in writing. it was important that we quickly vote for the agreement between parliament and the council to keep the amount of the european programme of aid to the most deprived at eur 500 million for 2012 and 2013. the report, which has been blocked in the council for two years, is the basis for the food supply of many charitable organizations in europe. if the council's blocking minority gave way at the end of 2011, with the consequence of extending the programme for two years, we are very much looking forward to a solution to maintain a similar european contribution after 2013. we are therefore determined to find an alternative to financing the eafrd from the budget of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not used to finance the purchase of foodstuffs.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, we have just finished a job. commissioner, you said earlier that we can share some things. there is one word i would like to stress, and that is the word "quickly". i think we cannot agree on that. the milk crisis was at its peak or at its worst three years ago this february. that is the time it took us to find a compromise between us to be able to offer a new perspective to the milk producers. i would like to pay tribute to the spirit in which we have worked and to our rapporteur who, for the first time, because it was the first time that we had to collegiate, enabled us to work in genuine dialogue and with a shared desire to build. we are therefore offering producers a new capacity to derogate from competition law and to organise themselves more strongly. but, commissioner, we both know that this is only a step, a step, and that we have not yet found the real solution and the real tools to get out of the milk quota period. an exit phase was normally to be put in place. that phase is yet to be invented. we must continue to work on this. as you said, we are not completely resolving the question of fragile territories either. if we offer them a tool, with the possibility of organizing themselves more with geographical protection tools, we do not allow milk to be stored in these territories. the work you will be doing in 2014 must provide us with solutions to maintain this activity in difficult territories where often grass is the only production, where often milk is the only possibility of economic valorization. otherwise, all the work and all the hopes we have placed in this text will be in vain for many farmers.
the dismantling of quotas, decided under the french presidency, risked leaving milk producers without a safeguard in the event of market disturbances. we therefore welcome the proposal for the milk package as a positive first step. it was necessary to strengthen the bargaining power of producers vis-à-vis the private processing industry by encouraging their grouping and contracting, which will cover only half of production. the socialist colleagues, and stéphane le foll in particular, have improved the proposal by ensuring the future of milk production in the fragile areas where cheese is produced under the name. however, much remains to be done. the rebalancing in favour of livestock farming in particular and other market instruments will be essential to avoid a new milk crisis. the cap reform must be an opportunity to complete this system, to guarantee farmers' incomes and to give them back the prominent place that should be theirs in the supply process and in food security in europe.
commissioner, rapporteur, i would first like to congratulate mr nicholson on his courage in dealing with the council and the commission. i am afraid, however, that what we have achieved does not allow for a balance between producers and manufacturers. this agreement reminds me of that illusion we all know, that children tell us about, of a paradise where vegetarian lions would eat grass next to sheep. i don't believe that for a second! since 2003, mrs fischer boel has been doing everything she can to destroy milk quotas in an ideological way. in october 2009, the court of auditors nevertheless recognised the effectiveness of these milk quotas. but today we are in an even more dramatic situation and we see what is happening in denmark, where the most solid farms, with increased production, are all in a state of bankruptcy, with land prices falling by 40%. do we want this at european level? i said no! we need to control production with the participation of the public authorities.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-morocco agreement favours industrial agriculture, heavily capitalised, on both sides of the mediterranean, at the expense of family and peasant farming. the increase in reduced-rate quotas for a wide range of vegetables and fruit puts european producers in an unsustainable competitive situation without, however, promoting balanced development in morocco. the main factor in the composition of fruit and vegetable prices is labour costs. morocco now has an undeniable advantage due to the massive use of child labour and the prohibition of agricultural workers' unions. wages are 5 euros a day in morocco, while in spain they reach 50 euros. how can we cope with this kind of competition, with this social dumping? respect for trade union rights and the prohibition of child labour are prerequisites for any ratification of a new trade agreement with morocco. for european producer organisations, the circumvention of the entry price system is dramatic. this malfunction reduces the payment of customs duties. the european commission has never given itself the means to combat this fraud, and it must settle this issue before proposing a new agreement. in morocco, the management of export rights favours large groups. as regards tomatoes, 70% of moroccan exports are concentrated in three companies. the moroccan family farming sector does not benefit from this agreement. according to a study funded by the european union, the tiris euro arab investment fund from abu dhabi has obtained 700,000 hectares in southern morocco to develop citrus, olive and vegetable plantations. the land grabbing, which shocks our fellow citizens so much, is also taking place on a large scale in morocco. in the sousse region, where tomatoes are the most important crop, the water table is falling by 2 metres a year. in western sahara, industrial farms draw water from the coastal groundwater. this irrigation causes salinization of fresh water and endangers the drinking water supply of local populations. exporting 350 000 tonnes of tomatoes is equivalent to sending 35 million cubic metres of water to europe from morocco. the social, environmental and economic impacts have not been assessed by the european commission. we're still waiting on the impact study. a study is needed for parliament to make an informed decision. we have never seen an agreement go through without knowing the social, economic and environmental impacts. i raised the question of the territorial scope of the agreement between the european union and morocco. several states including the united states have signed free trade agreements with the kingdom of morocco, expressly excluding western sahara. these measures were taken to avoid any further influence on the outcome of international negotiations under the auspices of the united nations with a view to finding a peaceful settlement between the parties. the divergent assessments of the european commission and the legal service of parliament on this issue do not guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, that this free trade agreement is in accordance with the international treaties binding the european union and all the member states. the european parliament must therefore reject this agreement. it will allow negotiations to be reopened on a new basis. i think it will also be a strong signal to the commission to change its approach by introducing the involvement of the european parliament in advance of the discussions between the parties. the european commission must produce concrete and serious impact studies on the economic, social, environmental and budgetary consequences of the agreements it negotiates. we cannot accept any longer that parliament has to vote only on a yes or no vote. i would like to inform you that, contrary to the opinion adopted by the committee on agriculture, which was negative on this agreement, the recommendation of the committee on international trade is to approve the agreement between the european union and morocco. i have to say it publicly. ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the arguments i have just presented, you will understand that i am calling on you very clearly to vote against ratification of this agreement. it is not only in the interest of european farmers, who are unanimously opposed to this agreement by all trade union tendencies, but also and above all in the interest of moroccan farmers who are now being robbed of their land by large exporting groups and who, because of this unbalanced agreement, will see their capacity to produce meat and dairy products and cereals destroyed by imports from large european groups. i therefore ask you, colleagues, to reject this agreement, which is a bad agreement. if we reject it, we reopen the debate but we do not prevent the previous agreement from continuing. so i am simply asking you to refuse the extension of the agreement in the interests of farmers on both sides of the mediterranean.
mr president, the signing of the agreement between the european union and morocco on reciprocal liberalization measures for agricultural and fishery products has an economic and above all a political aspect. the agreement with morocco is support for rural development policy, local agricultural support and, beyond that, support for the democratic process which has been launched in recent months, after the parliamentary elections. this agricultural agreement is thus a major component of the advanced status granted to the kingdom of morocco in 2008. it also shows that the union supports and encourages morocco's programme of constitutional and democratic reforms. beyond the economic aspect, this agreement will consolidate the rapprochement between the european union and morocco. the credibility of the european union is at stake. we cannot, my friends, continue bilateral relations that are going on at a leisurely pace. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to vote in favour of signing this agreement. a balanced, coherent agreement is needed to enable negotiations on a free trade agreement to be launched rapidly.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to recall briefly the political context which is indispensable in the context of our discussion. firstly, it is an agricultural agreement which has been essential in the context of the advanced status - as has been said - but essential in the ultimate free trade partnership which we wish to establish between the union and the kingdom of morocco. secondly, there is the democratic process, as we see it. the parliamentary elections on 25 november were held in a transparent manner. we are proud of what has been done here in the kingdom of morocco, and we are also an example. thirdly, we should note the very important efforts made by the new government, and in particular by foreign minister el othmani, who is in dialogue with his neighbour algeria to enable a solution to the problems of western sahara, including with the un. i therefore believe that it is not appropriate to include western sahara in the discussion, given the progress we are seeing. we must also remember that this agreement is an agreement which also protects small moroccan farmers. 70% of farms in morocco have less than 5 hectares. we also know that this agreement will help european agricultural exports. finally, i would like to ask the european commissioner what new measures he intends to take to enable our farmers in southern europe, for example, to benefit from the european globalisation fund and thus obtain this support from the european union. we vote in favour of this agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco.
mr president, commissioner, you are doing a good job. you defend a text with conviction. yet this text is not yours. it's the text of a legacy. we know that if you had had to negotiate this text yourself, it would have been different, because you are negotiating the cap and you know that it is difficult to impose environmental constraints on european farmers when texts such as the one proposed to us do not mention this issue. you know very well that it is difficult to put in place a common framework for the cap because the standard of living in the various european countries is different. and here we do not take into account the living standards of the moroccan producers, of whom we are supposed to be the eldorado. yes, the situation is complicated because i am sure that no one in this house is willing to call into question the development of morocco. morocco is a country we need in terms of stability in north africa. morocco is our gateway to developing new exchanges and we know well that whenever we develop exchanges, both sides are somehow winning. but i'm going back to what i was saying about the environment. how are we going to explain to european farmers that we are perhaps going to impose the water framework directive on them under eco-conditionality and that, at the same time, for the tomatoes we are letting in, well, we are not paying attention to the production conditions? how are we going to explain to them that the ground cover is shrinking by two metres a year in some areas and we are not talking about it? the model we are proposing to the moroccans, i say with conviction, is not a sustainable model. our producers may not have to worry because moroccan producers, under the system we are proposing, will die before them. but this is serious. i believe that we must defend morocco, we must defend democracy in morocco, but we must also be careful about the balance we propose on the environmental, social and economic levels.
mr president, this partnership agreement with morocco on agriculture and fisheries is an important act concerning a country which has had a common history with europe for centuries and which is an essential trading partner with which the european union has a clear trade surplus. i understand the concerns i've heard. if i have doubts about certain political recoveries, or even about the use of the right of the populations concerned but not associated, i share the questions about the consequences of liberalization on the already very fragile sectors of activity. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the commission's proposal. i support this agreement on that condition, because morocco's economic expansion is an essential lever for consolidating a democratic process which we all here in this house wish to see in this strategic area of the mediterranean.
member of the commission. - mr president, allow me to clarify some of the points that have been raised here. firstly, some of you have spoken about unfair competition or the lack of impact studies. i will give you two figures: tomato production in the european union is six million tonnes a year. the concessions we are proposing to morocco under this agreement are to increase the quota by 52 000 tonnes, which represents 0.8% of tomato production in the european union. moreover, the entry price system and the monthly distribution of this quantity protect the european market for tomatoes from morocco during the period from june to september, when production in the european union is at its highest. for the rest of the year, this quantity is distributed monthly. i also spoke about entry prices, mrs herranz garcía and mr mato adrover, and i have heard your remarks, as well as those of the agriculture ministers of these countries, and that is why i proposed to align the system for calculating entry prices with the taxation system in force in the european union, precisely to avoid that small quotas or small quantities of certain products, which are more advantageous, make the calculation of the whole transport operation take place on this basis. it is to eliminate this type of problem that we have proposed the improvement of the system for calculating entry prices. i can assure you that we will also monitor the way in which the member states carry out customs controls at the border once this change is made. some of you have said that this agreement will benefit multinationals and not small farms, but i do not know whether a trade agreement can encourage the development of a multinational or an operating model. you know that within the european union, these kinds of guidelines are defined by our own agricultural policy. morocco also has its own agricultural policy and, during the negotiations for this agreement, it presented us with this green plan, in which at least the moroccan government has undertaken to give clear support also to small farms. you also mentioned land grabbing. the information we have received from the government of the kingdom of morocco, and which is also clear in the green plan, is that foreigners' access to land is limited to 100 000 hectares in morocco and that individual farms' access is limited to a few thousand hectares per farm. in any case, mr bové, this is the information that the moroccan government has given us. as regards compliance with veterinary health standards - i have already said in my introduction - border controls ensure that products from morocco, like from other parts of the world, comply with veterinary and phytosanitary standards. all the food safety standards imposed on our producers are therefore applied to moroccan producers and, moreover, the audits recently carried out by the european food and veterinary office in morocco show us that this country also now has the capacity to ensure this control with the institutions it has created. our technical assistance programmes in morocco also aim to strengthen this capacity in the future. you also mentioned the impact on the environment, particularly with regard to water consumption. the data we have indicate that the average consumption of one kilo of tomatoes in morocco is 47 litres of water per kilo, whereas in the european union it is 45 litres per kilo. this figure is therefore close to the average for the european union, or at least that is the calculation we have, mr bové. with the drop-in technology system that morocco - as we understand it - wants to develop as part of its green plan, this consumption could be further reduced. but again, it is not by agreement that you can impose on a government choices that are its responsibility. i think that if we respect the self-determination of a state like morocco, we can rely on the information it gives us to make decisions, including on an agreement. thank you very much for these clarifications. i think my colleague, mr füle, will give you even more details on the non-agricultural aspects which you have also raised in your speeches.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate touches on many fundamental issues about the europe we want to build. do we want to build a europe open to the world? are we serious about establishing a close partnership with our neighbours? are we serious about the ‘more for more’ and mutual accountability principle? the vote by this house on the agricultural agreement with morocco will determine some of the answers to these questions. as my colleague commissioner cioloş stated, morocco is an important partner of the european union. we concluded an agreement on advanced status in 2008 and the entry into force of the agricultural agreement will give substance to the advanced status. it will create investment opportunities for european union companies and help provide jobs in morocco, therefore reducing the temptation to find better living opportunities abroad thus stretching further our migration capacity and policy. let me make three additional points. first, on the western sahara, i would like to confirm that the post-lisbon european union is committed to doing more to find a solution to the conflicts of our neighbourhood. we are also keen to promote regional cooperation in the maghreb and support efforts made by algeria and morocco to normalise their relations. many positive steps have been taken recently and the commission is determined to provide both political and technical support. we care very much about human rights in the western sahara. overall, we consider that the situation in morocco has improved over the years and this movement needs to be encouraged further. we will continue to follow events closely and intervene whenever appropriate, including by supporting trial observation and with specific démarches. on the occasion of the political dialogue with morocco we will continue to raise our concerns when appropriate. let me make it clear that the de facto moroccan administration in the western sahara is already under a legal obligation to comply with the principles of international law, which provides that the activities related to natural resources are lawful as long as they are not implemented in disregard of the needs, interests and benefits of the local population. we are committed to monitoring closely the impact of the agreement on the population of western sahara. we will use the existing agriculture and fisheries subcommittee established by the association agreement to gather this information and to keep parliament informed. i welcome the fact that morocco has committed to providing information on the regional impact of the agreement. now a second remark on the importance of agreement in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and the arab spring: let me stress that the rejection of this agreement would send a negative signal to all our arab partners engaged in the difficult process of democratisation and reform, for whom greater trade opportunities with the european union will be a source of jobs and economic growth. more broadly, let me recall that this parliament last december supported the new approach for the european neighbourhood policy and in particular the vision of the gradual economic integration of our neighbours into our internal market. so let me stress that, despite what some of you said, we have a strategy to support forces behind the arab spring. you voted for it, and the opening of markets was an integral part of it. the agreement with morocco is indeed a building block of this exercise, and its adoption will send a very positive and encouraging signal to all our neighbourhood partners in the east and south. now a third point on the resolution: let me conclude by thanking members of this house for their positive collaboration in the preparation of the resolution. we take your resolution very seriously. my colleague has indicated a number of areas of concern to parliament where we will work intensively once the agreement with morocco enters into force with a particular regard for your concerns, the commission will monitor closely the effect of the agreement both in europe and in morocco and in all policy dimensions. the monitoring will start on the first day of the entry into force of the agreement and it will be a continual process. in this context, let me also state that much has been done to meet most of the five demands mentioned by the spanish parliamentarians from the s&d group. the commission will also launch an impact assessment for the negotiation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area with morocco and other partners in the southern mediterranean. i am keen to ensure that the commission will deliver on its commitments, and you can count on our personal engagement to this effect.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for a good debate. i would like to stress that the agreement to be voted on later this week is an extremely important symbol of cooperation between the eu and morocco. i am therefore also pleased with the support expressed by a number of members of this house, including mr kazak, mrs de kaiser, mr martin, mr lange and many others. it is an expression of the fact that if we want to strengthen development and reform in north africa, we have to demonstrate this through concrete actions that create economic progress and bind us closer together. and that is exactly the purpose of this agreement. if it is rejected, we will send the wrong signal to morocco and the other north african countries. to mr bové and the many others who have expressed their scepticism and opposition to the agreement: i respect the views, but i disagree with the conclusion. i would remind you that the agreement contains provisions which give the eu the right to restrict imports from morocco if they cause significant disruption to the european market or damage production, and it also takes account of products which are particularly sensitive in the eu. there are no political agreements that are completely black and white when you make compromises. but this agreement is particularly important because it sends the first important signal to north africa after we have seen the arab spring. it is now that the eu has the opportunity to put the fine words and strong values into action in the form of an agreement that makes a concrete difference to the people of north africa. an agreement that will send a clear message that the eu is acting, that the eu is behind democratisation, behind free trade, behind a partnership based on trust and trade and democratic values. that is why it is more than a question of trade when the members of this parliament vote on thursday. it is a question of whether the eu will stand by the promises we have made, of close cooperation and of supporting the forces for democratic reform which need our support and which deserve our support. with these words, i should like to urge on behalf of the council all members of this parliament to vote in favour of the agreement.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, mr president of the council, we have just had a debate which was nevertheless interesting because for the first time we had a real debate on a free trade agreement. some spoke of facts, others spoke of ideology, even belief, belief in free trade as the advance towards democracy. i hope that these people will not one day find themselves facing the same people who have been victims of free trade agreements, whether it be fruit and vegetable farmers today or meat producers tomorrow when the mercosur agreement comes. but i would say that this free trade agreement is a bad agreement first and foremost for moroccan farmers. if the yes wins on thursday - it's possible, i don't know - it means that you are creating all the conditions for the arab spring to finally arrive in morocco. that means you're gonna be in a funny situation tomorrow. when we see that the agreement provides for an increase of more than 50% for european products in morocco, compared with only 15% for moroccan products in europe, this means that hundreds of thousands of moroccan families will be thrown out on the streets because of these exports to their own country. is that what you want? today, i get the feeling you're not telling the truth. you refuse to tell the truth. we agree to this deal because morocco is committed to protecting us from immigration coming from africa. that is what you are saying, and that is what you are saying in all your texts. are economic agreements being made only to build a wall across the mediterranean to protect europe? let's not get carried away! let us return to the facts, and the facts are agriculture. but this agreement is a bad plan for agriculture. a 1% increase in volume over supply can bring down prices. as you know very well, commissioner, the adjustment of supply and demand is fragile. 1% can bring down prices and can have dramatic consequences. we know that perpignan is now a veritable tomato-picking area. it is known that the headquarters of the two largest companies, azura and idyl, are in france. today, that is known. so why do we continue in this way? we also know that the commission has internal documents in the european union which show that more than 700 000 hectares have been given to a fund in the persian gulf. today you cannot deny it, the commission documents themselves prove it. we have to be serious, like we were about the water. we are now told that we have no data on water, whereas european, dutch, french, spanish and moroccan universities provide figures. i'm not going to go any further. as for the obligation to western sahara, i did not want to turn it into a political battle, just a question of law. and the law is stubborn. if western sahara were not excluded from this agreement tomorrow, you would be faced with the possibility of an appeal to the european court of justice.
in writing. i understand the concerns raised by this agreement, which has been under negotiation since 2008 and is about to be voted on, but guarantees have been put in place to protect the interests of european producers. the quotas remain unchanged, moroccan products will not have access to the european market during the main seasons for the sale of european products and socioeconomic and environmental criteria will have to be met by moroccans. free and undistorted competition must be ensured and the interests of european agricultural sectors must be defended. if market imbalances are found, compensatory measures for european farmers will have to be taken. with the expansion of the moroccan market, we will also be able to increase our exports to that country. it is also the reward given to morocco for its democratic reforms and to reject this agreement would be dangerous. so we must strike a balance between protecting our agriculture and establishing a privileged partnership with the moroccans. it is in this spirit that i support this agreement, while remaining vigilant about its implementation. saving our agricultural model and opening up our market are compatible. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like you to tell mr rehn how sorry we are that he is not here tonight. we had postponed this debate for him and i think it is an important matter even though we know that he does have great responsibilities in relation to greece. in the six-pack, as diogo feio recalled, we fought for the issue of eurobonds to be tackled in a rigorous way. it was in my report, my objective was twofold: it was to show that those who were against forever could be wrong and that those who were for tomorrow morning missed a number of problems. so thank you to the commission for helping to do this background work with the green paper. i believe there are measures to be taken immediately and measures to be taken in the longer term. in the report i will be responsible for, that is the direction we would like to take, a road map, so that we can clearly distinguish between what can be done now and what will require, of course - and this is important, i stress this to those colleagues who are having difficulties - significant legal steps. in the short term, i think what would be really important - this has also been discussed - would be to help the states that are heavily indebted to meet the very strong commitments they have made in the six-pack in terms of the pace of reducing their debt, but to help them not just to impose standards but to find the means to actually meet them. we in the alde group are in full support of the idea of the redemption fund or tilgungsfonds of the german expert council. secondly, there is something i want to stress which i think is extremely important. at this point, we have our nose on the crisis and we end up forgetting why we wanted to make a currency together. this currency has a global vocation, which is to contribute to stability, on a global level, between the different currencies, to offer, as you said, for foreign investors a chance to invest in an area that we hope is stable, and we are working on, with a deep and liquid market. it is a long-term objective and it is an objective that goes hand in hand with the political union that is linked to the single currency. it is to this end that we are prepared to work, as diogo feio said, perhaps beyond what the commission will propose. anyway, it's the spirit that keeps me going. it is a long-term project to give the euro its full place among the world currencies and to make the european union even more of a political union than it is today. i would like to make one final comment: it seems to me, commissioner, that, without wishing to be unpleasant, you have not, as is customary, made the answers to the consultation public. you have already chosen extremely short deadlines, since you had to reply by 8 january, which was not a very good date and, to my knowledge, except for my mistake, i did not find the answers on your website. i think it's an element of transparency. we are not hiding anything from the public, we would like to know exactly what all the stakeholders have said in an open way and to be able to respond to them.
mr president, mrs kroes, in your speech on behalf of the commission you said to us: 'euro-bonds without budgetary discipline will not work.' you're absolutely right. but what we have today is budgetary discipline without the eurobonds. what we are proposing to the european parliament is a balance between the two. today, the package you propose is unbalanced. we're not the ones saying it. listen to the rating agencies. when standard & poor's downgraded france a few weeks ago, what they said was, "austerity alone doesn't work". you don't have to believe me, you don't have to believe the left in this european parliament, but you can believe the rating agencies, if you listen to them more. the challenge is to put a road map in place today, because we do not underestimate the legal issues and the technical complexities. but it's precisely because it's complicated that we have to start right away, to send a signal and get in the line of battle as quickly as possible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. is europe today willing to do what the united states did two hundred and twenty years ago at home, that is to say, to pool its public debt gradually in order to show solidarity and to show the political will to create a political union? i think there is a majority in the european parliament to go in that direction. surprise us at the european commission! for once, be truly european and ambitious!
the question is "blue cardboard". i fully understand your concern not to remove the pressure of balanced interest rates, but what bothers me is when you use the word 'good' or 'bad' so much. it is not important, in my view, in the situation we are in, whether the management was good or bad. what do you propose to ensure that the countries which have made certain commitments can now respect them and that the euro area as a whole remains firmly united?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the spring european council is, as you know, the european council’s annual rendezvous to discuss economic and social issues, and the next meetings of heads of state or government will be no exception. the european council will seek to address the current economic crisis, notably by providing guidance on member states’ economic and employment policies, putting particular emphasis on accelerating structural reforms to increase competitiveness and create more jobs and on fully exploiting the potential of green growth. however, let me stress that this is not to say that we are in a business-as-usual mode. indeed we cannot afford complacency. because of the crisis we need more than ever to make full use of our new tools – the european semester and the six-pack. this is an important priority for the danish presidency and we will work in all relevant council formations to ensure strict implementation of the new rules in order to ensure their credibility, but also to provide opportunity for anchoring this process at the level of heads of state and government. the european council will conclude the first phase of the european semester on the basis of the commission’s annual growth survey and the discussions held in the different formations of the council. it is the presidency’s intention to summarise all these contributions in a synthesis report. furthermore, the epsco and ecofin councils will adopt conclusions. in this context the european council will identify the main challenges facing the eu, and give strategic advice and guidance to member states on the different policies. let me recall that a number of orientations have already been set out at the informal european council on 30 january regarding stimulating employment, especially for young people, completing the single market and boosting the financing of the economy, in particular of the smes. those measures requiring actions at the national level are to be duly reflected in member states’ national reform programmes. as regards measures to be taken at eu level, the council will report back on the implementation in june. we expect the march european council to assess the economic situation and express the eu’s determination to continue to take all necessary measures. regarding guidance to member states on their national reform programmes and stability and convergence programmes, the european council will discuss the implementation of the 2011 european semester country-specific recommendations and commitments under the euro plus pact. it will call on member states to give priority to the areas identified in the commission’s ags and in the council discussion on the european semester and to reflect this in the nrps and scps. the european council will also call on the member states taking part in the euro plus pact to update their commitments and to make them more precise, time-limited, operational and measureable. regarding innovation and following up on the orientations set by the european council, the danish presidency will prepare reports setting out progress achieved in this field. on that basis we expect the european council to stress the areas where more progress is required to unlock innovation potential, for instance a single innovation indicator. on the second issue on the agenda – international summits – the forthcoming g8, g20 and rio+20 meetings will address issues important to the eu. the difficulty is, of course, that they will take place in june and the march european council should therefore take stock of preparation and signal those issues of particular importance. on the g20 and the g8, the mexican presidency has identified the following priorities for the summit: economic stabilisation and structural reforms as foundations for growth and employment; strengthening the financial system and fostering financial inclusion to promote economic growth; improving the international financial architecture in an interconnected world; enhancing food security and addressing commodity price volatility; promoting sustainable development, green growth and the fight against climate change. the mexican presidency will organise preparatory ministerial meetings on foreign affairs, tourism, agriculture and labour. the eu position at the meeting will be thoroughly prepared in the coming months in the relevant council formations in order to ensure a strong and coordinated eu position. the un rio+20 conference: at this conference it is an important priority for the danish presidency that we should promote a strengthened global institutional framework for sustainable development and advance work on global and coherent post-2015 goals for sustainable development. the european council is expected to underline its strong commitment to an ambitious outcome of the un conference to be held in rio de janeiro in june of this year and stress the need for strong participation from the private sector and civil society. the council will further develop the eu position on rio+20 in order to ensure a strong european voice in rio. in accordance with the conclusions of the european council in december 2011, the european council will also take up the issue of status as candidate country for serbia. as you are aware, the european council on 9 december 2011 noted that considerable progress has been made by serbia towards fulfilling the political criteria. with a view to granting serbia the status of candidate country, the european council tasked the general affairs council to examine and confirm that serbia has continued to show credible commitment and has achieved further progress in moving forward with the implementation, in good faith, of agreement reached in the dialogue, including on ibm, has reached an agreement on inclusive regional cooperation and has actively cooperated to enable eulex and kfor to execute their mandates. in the light of its examination, the general affairs council will take the decision on candidate status on 28 february, to be confirmed by the march european council. i hope that a decision can be taken to give serbia status as a candidate country but that will of course also require that serbia has done what is necessary to live up to the criteria formulated in december. finally the european council is expected to address foreign policy, probably with the focus on the southern neighbourhood and the arab spring.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, europe is in an unprecedented economic situation. after the years of crisis, our forecasts show that growth is at a virtual standstill and will remain slow for the foreseeable future. unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is unacceptably high and may remain so for many years. this is the background against which we need action and against which the actions of european institutions and national governments alike will be judged. we need to deliver on the greatest concerns of our citizens – jobs and growth – and we need to mark a turning point in the way we have addressed this crisis until now. as we already said in our roadmap last october, we need decisive action to address greece’s problems and restore public finances to health. we need to strengthen the european banking system and to build credible firewalls for the euro area, and we need stability and discipline to prevent a repeat of recent events, but unless we can also get our economy growing and creating jobs we will only have a partial solution and we will not win the support of our citizens. that is why the informal european council was such an important stepping stone for the spring european council. it represented agreement among europe’s leaders to concentrate on a few immediate priorities with substantial potential for growth and employment – first and foremost for our young people and for our smes, to help them to grow and to create jobs again. this message was already at the core of our 2012 annual growth survey (ags), adopted by the commission last november and with this ags we are launching the new european semester. as you know, our survey is a contribution to the spring european council and we will call upon the european council to give very strong backing to the priorities we have identified. i hope that we can also count on the support of this house to do so. the annual growth survey points to the number of priorities we have to achieve in the future and the priorities which should guide the member states in drawing up their own new national programmes, which are due to be presented in april. on the basis of this, the commission will put forward country-specific proposals for the discussion in may and adoption at the june european council. what is very important is that very little of what is in the annual growth survey is completely new. there is, and has been for some time, a broad consensus on the need to cover jobs and growth as well as getting public finances in order. we need a balanced approach, covering growth and jobs and the improvement of fiscal consolidations and public finances, but what we need even more is implementation and respect for the commitments which we have already undertaken. as far as new ideas are concerned, we have to remind ourselves that we already have a policy for jobs and growth. it is called europe 2020. we also have a european semester which represents a quantum leap in economic policy coordination in europe. for the first time this year, the semester will take place within our strengthened system of economic governance based on the six-pack legislation that the european parliament played such an important role in developing. what is needed now is a firm commitment at national and european levels to picking up the pace of the reforms and to carrying that commitment through to 2012. the commission has already put forward a proposal regarding the problem which is probably the most burdensome and most difficult for our citizens – namely youth unemployment. we cannot accept the fact that we have 7.5 million young people across europe classified as neets, which means that they are not in employment, education or training. they definitely do not deserve this. we need to tackle these high levels of youth unemployment and we need to do so in a sustainable manner. getting young people on to the labour market is an essential element of our efforts to ensure future growth. we have already set up action teams that will visit the eight member states with the highest youth unemployment rates and they will examine, together with national authorities and social partners, what we can do better, how we can make better use of eu and national funds and how we can focus our efforts on social policies, smes and job creation for young people. i am very happy to report that our initial contacts with the member states have been very encouraging and i hope that we will already be able to bring a positive report to the spring european council on this matter. but these actions must be part of the wider reform of labour market policies aimed at getting more europeans on to the labour market and increasing their employment opportunities. i am sure that these issues will be discussed again at greater length in a moment when you debate the cornelissen, gauzès and berès reports. i started my presentation in a slightly downbeat fashion, but i would like to conclude on a more optimistic note. while no one is brave enough yet to suggest that we have turned the corner, that the worst might be over and that we might finally be back on the road to growth, i think it is fair to say that we now at least have far greater control over our future. the new measures that have been proposed by the commission and agreed by this house – now i am talking about the six-pack and other measures – are giving much more visibility to the european semester and are allowing us to take action far earlier than before and to avoid the kind of fire-fighting that has dominated our discussions until now. yesterday, the commission adopted its first alert mechanism report according to which the 12 countries should be subject to a more in-depth review. our recommendations will now be discussed in the council and eurogroup and, of course, the feedback from this house into this discussion would be very welcome. this might not seem particularly optimistic, especially for the 12 member states concerned, but it underlines the rapid and effective improvements that have already been made to the way in which public finances are managed in europe. we need to have the right tools in place to monitor progress, address risk and propose remedies well before a crisis hits. we must make sure that the crisis that we are now going through will never again be repeated. thanks to widespread agreement between the commission, parliament and the council we now have the tools and, although it is early days, i would say that we have very strong indications that they are working. i fully expect the positive spirit of the informal council to continue through to the spring council, that the heads of state and government will endorse the guidelines for growth and, more importantly, that they will meet their commitments on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, trust is the basis of the single market, it is the basis of the european union. the financial crisis has undermined that trust, the trust that our citizens have in each other and in policy-makers, and there is a growing distrust. in the face of this danger, we must be clear-sighted. we need measures to restore confidence in the sound management of our finances and the treaty to be signed next month will be one of the cornerstones of this. we also need measures to restore confidence in the governance of the euro and this cannot be done by contradictory statements. in this respect, i am very surprised by the statements made by commissioner nelly kroes, vice-president of the commission, who said that it would not be a big deal if greece left the euro area. i ask the commission: is this your official position? i ask the commission to comment on this. ladies and gentlemen, after years of imprudent management of public finances in many of our countries, the time has come for change. this is certainly even more true for greece, but we will not escape a cure of thinning our expenditure while adding that greece cannot take any more. our latvian friends have proved this a few years ago by reforming their public administration without any outside help and by accepting painful sacrifices that have led them back to growth. i therefore also hope that the greek people, who are very numerous, will feel a sense of responsibility and i am not one of those who want to make them believe that they will get out of the crisis immediately without reforms. however, as i said just after the last european council, we will not spare any measures for growth and employment either. the package which has been proposed to us at this stage is not, at that stage, at all commensurate with the challenges. i am convinced that the time is no longer to manage the day-to-day affairs. it is rather the adoption of what was the marshall plan after the war or even the single market project of 1992. ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for europe to be ambitious. the time has come to put in place a project that will mobilise all our energies to get back to growth and employment. my group expects the european commission to propose such a legislative package in close liaison with parliament, as we have done with the six-pack. this package could include measures as strong as the completion of the internal market. we need to know which countries are still blocking this market. the single market act, the services directive and the european patent are blocked because of a ridiculous siege. the package must also include a reduction in the burden on our companies, which is hampering their competitiveness, and in return they must make a commitment to employ, especially young people. in the end, there is no magic recipe for overcoming the crisis from above, except to show political will, to have the courage to tell the truth to our fellow citizens and to implement our commitments. as a former business leader, i tell you, i have experienced several crises, i ask the commission and the heads of state and government, who are always in an election period - i understand and it is therefore up to us, at the level of parliament, the commission, to show them the way, to make them bold proposals and proposals for major works, for example - to set up the internal market, and to denounce those who do not do so. these are measures, small measures, which, when combined, will perhaps enable us to achieve 1% growth again very quickly. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the blue card. mr fox, no, we need rules, and i'm a big liberal like you. but my liberalism, i'll explain it to you. it's a football field. there are two teams playing. may the best man win, but there's a referee and rules to be followed. that's my liberalism.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr lambsdorff, i do not want to be mean, but if i know mrs kroes well, since she has been with us for a very long time, i have made a different analysis. if you file the balance sheet in greece, there are insurance companies that reimburse 75% to certain companies. if we do not file the balance sheet, these companies will be forced to give up 75%, or even 100% of what they have invested in greece. i simply ask myself the question and we will ask mrs kroes if she has not thought of that. secondly, i had a phone call with mr. samaras last night. he dismissed 21 members of his party on sunday. i think he's a brave man. have you ever kicked 21 members out because they did not vote on a text? i don't think mr. samaras is without courage. he proved it sunday night.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it often happens to me that after the speeches by the council and the commission, i do not know what kind of world we are living in. but apparently we're able to think on different planets. mr šefčovič, from the commission, you mentioned 2020. and it occurred to us: it was 2020. it's a good story. it was also the lisbon strategy. these are the objectives that are always being formulated, but which are never actually achieved. i am therefore very pleased that the council has finally acknowledged the high level of youth unemployment. they've been around for about the last eight years, and now they've discovered this. welcome to the real world! and maybe you'll discover other things over the next eight years that are actually happening in this world. if you talk about youth unemployment, you could have built a bridge to greece. how do you propose to solve youth unemployment in greece? and that brings us to a central problem of the commission. if the neoliberal taliban rules in the commission, then the countries will be in bad shape. i can tell you what is being done in greece at the moment - and mr swoboda is right - that is not only irresponsible on the part of the troika, but i would almost say criminal. i don't know which officials had their hand in this. the council and the commission say that the greeks must save 326 million more. the government, after trying to bring order, says with samaras: 'we will save this in the defence budget'. some commission officials say: 'no, you have to save that for your pensions.' how do you come up with this idea and why? it's true you're saving that for the defense budget. and that's what i call the neoliberal taliban. they all demand that greece should save. mr. lambsdorff, it's not true that nothing is happening! first of all, without the interest, greece has reduced its debt from 10% to 3-4% in the last year, they have reduced the debt by 6% of gdp. you can't tell these people they didn't do anything. i'd like to see that, it's getting rude. i think i'm going crazy! we want to give the greeks 130 billion. now there is a problem of 380 million, and now we are locking ourselves up because of the 380 million that we have not reached. this is called in good german coercion. this is a compulsion on the part of the greek people. there is no solution. so i want to say in conclusion: if you think that everyone here is like you, that you are going to save greece, then you are wrong! you can't make reforms without a people. if you constantly provoke a people, that people will make bad decisions. it may well be that in greece the people are currently circulating false ideas. but you will not solve this by permanently forcing this people to their knees. you have to walk upright! i want to say one thing to the germans here: when the german occupation was in greece, they transferred 486 million from the greek central bank to berlin. this money was never repaid. that would be the equivalent of 81 billion, adjusted for inflation, that germany has to pay back to greece. do that! tell that to the germans! and that would be one sixth of greece's debt. this is how you tell a story in europe. this is called the european narrative in european history. (applause) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 14 (8) of the rules of procedure.'
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i'll just give you a name. a commission official named marco buti said in a meeting with ecofin that when he was accused of saying that the german institutions had said that neither portugal, ireland nor greece could repay, he said: and my colleague, marco buti, the ayatollah, if you like, rather than the taliban, the neoliberal ayatollah, i would like to correct myself, said: if anyone in my committee were to present these figures to me, he would be fired immediately. now that's what i call an ayatollah. an ayatollah is a man who puts religion above reality, and so do many neoliberal officials in the commission. reality is one thing, but with your ideology and with it you will destroy this europe. that's what i'm saying. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, greece is being pushed into an endless spiral of austerity and the modern bloodthirsty diafoirus are refusing to pay the promised aid. how could this be explained to the greek citizens who were subjected to double burdens of toil and injustice? there are alternative paths. i propose one: the fight against tax evasion. the estimated loss of revenue for greece is €16.4 billion, due to tax evasion to switzerland. to do so in a determined manner would allow greece to return to the stability pact without sacrificing the future. the circumstances have forced greece to consider a bilateral agreement with switzerland, as the uk and germany did with the rubik's cube. this partial levy on fraudulent investments, instead of prosecuting the fraudsters, is an institutional recognition of tax evasion and a bad deal from a financial point of view. the union should take as a model the united states, which has successfully forced switzerland to hand over the bank details of suspected fraudsters. what is the commission's view after its services have concluded that these agreements are illegal in a note which i call for to be made public? what does it propose for the future, now that its proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings has been buried by the council and, in particular, by germany? in short, what does it suggest so that discipline is not always burdened on the more humble? i would like the commissioner to answer me because this is an important question, but i have noticed that he is not listening to me.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i do not know what we are talking about this morning. i find this debate quite astonishing, as if we were discovering each other's positions. i just want to make a point of method. could the european council simply have the humility to reflect on what has been missed in the last year and why we are here? it's not about finding out who's right or wrong, but about finding out how we could change the method. i think the most serious issue is that we are trying to impose stability by force. we are trying to impose on a people - who have reforms to make, who have had enormous problems in their economic and perhaps political management - the stability of the eurozone by force. this is in total contradiction to what has been done since 1950 on this continent, where participation by all should be voluntary and where democracy should prevail over the balance of power and economic considerations.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr minister, i am having a very hard time getting used to the fact that, under the lisbon treaty, the general affairs council prepares the european councils and you, mr president, wish to take part in the european council. i propose that you invite president van rompuy to prepare the european councils. i would like to make three points. first of all, savings, but savings in the sense of avoiding public spending. i propose that we consider a mutualisation between the european union and the member states, for example by carrying out an audit of the european court of auditors, together with the 27 national audit bodies, on the savings we could make. twenty-seven armies, no more enemies, research programs funded 15 times without coordination and hundreds of diplomatic buildings for which we could provide ten-year management. finally, for growth, we must take up the idea of a major investment plan of eur 1 000 to 1 500 billion in the europe 2020 strategy. i also think that we are not doing enough to achieve social convergence, with minimum wages not progressing. what hope is there for the peoples if we fail to include social convergence in the cost chain?
in writing. the intergovernmental treaty that european governments are about to sign is doubly unacceptable. the procedure adopted is undemocratic and tramples on half a century of community method. it is also a financial crisis, because it is aimed at tightening the already stifling grip of the stability pact and imposing unprecedented austerity policies throughout europe. these policies can only plunge us into a lasting recession, destroy our social model and make the most modest citizens pay the price of a crisis of which they are the first victims. they will not solve the debt problem because austerity will kill consumption and investment and with them all hope of growth and recovery of public finances. proof that europe is currently walking on its head, while greece is being stabbed in the throat, the ecb has just granted banks a loan of €489 billion over three years at 1% interest. curiously, the latter are not suspected of moral hazard, unlike the states, which the ecb is not allowed to finance directly. they will therefore be able to buy back sovereign bonds at 6 or even 10% and continue their speculative activities with this free money. this is not the europe we want.
in writing. i sincerely hope that we will reach agreement on the aid plan for greece at the next council. it is crucial for all of europe. otherwise, the urgency of this issue will overshadow the ratification of the treaty on stability and budgetary governance. i know politics can be a long time. but let us not forget that this agreement is as historic as it is fragile. in france, we will have to choose a president for another five years. and some candidates are already announcing their intention not to ratify the treaty. worse, they claim they can renegotiate it! the majority of this house clearly agrees on the substance as well as the interest of this agreement. it is vital for the future of europe. let us not allow demagogic promises to destroy the hope we have placed in it.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam minister, commissioner, each year the annual growth review helps to define the priorities and actions of the european union in economic and budgetary matters. i should like to begin by thanking the commission for publishing its report before the end of november, thus allowing parliament to do some serious work in good time. we want this calendar to be permanent, so that parliament has time to express its opinion before the annual economic guidelines are adopted at the spring european council. this year, when it is examining this report, parliament wishes to make a very strong appeal to the member states to finally put into effect the measures implied by the policies they have themselves undertaken to follow. these measures must of course be directed primarily at the solution of the sovereign debt crisis. these measures must go hand in hand with a search for growth through improved competitiveness. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. parliament endorsed the commission's analysis that efforts at national and union level should focus on the following five priorities: to ensure differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, with the objectives of economic recovery and job creation; ensuring the long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; combat unemployment and take measures to deal with the social consequences of the crisis; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and measures. as regards fiscal consolidation, member states should pursue differentiated strategies in line with their fiscal situation and keep public expenditure growth below the rate of gdp growth over the medium term. member states should give priority, both in terms of expenditure and budget revenue, to growth-friendly policies, in particular in the fields of education, research and innovation, infrastructure and energy, and to ensuring the efficiency of such expenditure and revenue. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the financial sector was not left behind. the restoration of investor confidence requires a strengthening of the capital position of banks and measures to facilitate access to finance. thirdly, the promotion of sustainable growth requires an increase in the competitiveness of investment. in this respect, parliament was concerned about the macroeconomic imbalances within the union and the fact that many member states were lagging behind in terms of productivity. strengthened coordination of economic policies and structural reforms is needed to provide an adequate response in deficit and surplus countries. the modernisation of the eu's public administration and services of general interest is also a key element of competitiveness and an important factor in productivity. in future, parliament would like to be better involved in the elaboration of the broad political and economic guidelines. it should be recalled that the european semester is now part of the secondary legislation of the union. the economic governance framework provides for the economic dialogue instrument to strengthen the dialogue between the institutions and ensure greater transparency. we want that to be the case, and i shall conclude in a moment after the various speeches, in the two minutes i have left, mr president.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, it is five years since the spring european council was held in a climate of crisis. this is the fifth european council in a climate of crisis and where, clearly, the logic is being pursued that austerity will lead to growth. it seems to me that perhaps it is time to take stock and to recognise that it is the recession that is born of austerity and not growth. we are here today to discuss a document which the commission is submitting to the european council, the annual growth survey! recognize that there is something wrong here and that it is time to change the game. first of all, on behalf of our institution, the european parliament, let me say that we are in absolute denial of democracy here, because what is going on? the spring european council adopts the guidelines which will then be required of the member states in defining their economic policy strategy. on what basis does the spring european council take its decision? the commission is trying to contribute in a direction which is not in our interest, but it is putting on the table a community document called the annual growth review. meanwhile, the council will draw up the euro pact on the basis of a piece of paper drawn up by chancellor merkel and president sarkozy and then endorsed by the other institutions. in a democracy, the way in which the broad economic policy guidelines are defined is the basis of the social pact. that is why we are fighting for this parliament to have a say in this. we propose to do so on the basis of what the commission continues to call an annual growth review, which we ask to be turned into an annual growth guideline. we ask the commission to face the facts. can it be said that this annual growth review will make it possible to bring to life the potential contradictions between the stability pact and the europe 2020 strategy? both mr gauzès' report and mrs cornelissen's report - i thank our two colleagues for the spirit of cooperation with which we have been able to work - invite you to walk on two feet and, to walk on two feet, sometimes you have to twist the neck of austerity and the stability pact, because otherwise we will not be able to implement the europe 2020 strategy. we also call for a balanced approach to economic situations. this means that when there are imbalances within the european union, we have to look at the deficit side and the surplus side. madam president-in-office of the council, as i have said, the euro pact is no longer a basis for negotiation. madam president, look at the figures. everyone today, on a european scale, is in a difficult situation. have you seen the oecd figure on growth prospects in germany for the year 2012? 0.4% of the total. this is proof that even the most virtuous economy in the european union cannot bear the recessionary situation into which the policy of this five-year period is leading the euro area and the european union as a whole. then look at how you manage the union's tools. the european social fund is in a state of crisis. on the one hand you want to make it a tool for applying macroeconomic sanctions and on the other hand, when it comes to creating jobs for young people, you want to mobilise the european social fund. these contradictions must be resolved and to do so i invite you to look at the reports which this house is presenting to you as the european parliament's contribution to the work of the spring council. i hope that, through the voice of our president when he speaks to you, these guidelines, whether in the economic field or in the field of employment, will be able to improve your road map because otherwise it will be a dead end for democracy and for europeans.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, i would first of all like to thank the colleagues who worked on this report, but also the commission which has done work this year - i should like to stress this - which is much more comprehensive than last year's work and much less focused on a preconceived conception of the economy. we thank you for that. it is also important to ensure that the various documents are coherent, because it is obvious that it is a bit difficult for outside observers, for citizens, to find their way between the european semester, the annual growth strategy, agenda 2020, the euro plus pact, the six-pack, the two-pack, etc. the more coherence we can achieve, as you have already begun to do with reference to the 2020 strategy, the more coherence we will have between this report and the report on macroeconomic imbalances which was born of the six-pack and which, as one of the rapporteurs, i strongly supported, the more we will be moving in the right direction. i would like to stress that it is very important that one of the five priorities of the 2020 strategy, namely the fight against poverty and exclusion, should not be lost. given the situation in many member states, given first of all the suffering of individuals, but also given what this means for the cohesion of our societies, i really urge the commission not to lose sight of this objective, which the member states, madam minister, have been a little bit inclined to forget in the documents that have been concluded since. i'll close with a point. we must be very careful not to take a procedural view of this matter. it's a bit like a paperweight. i would really like to see more jobs created and i am counting on you, madam minister, if you will stop making phone calls during the debate, to give denmark a strong impetus in this direction, since your country has shown itself in this area, and we would like to be able to adapt the solutions you have found to our countries.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. in response to the crisis, the european union has just spent more than a year strengthening its economic governance to avoid macroeconomic imbalances and excessive budget deficits threatening the european economy, but this has not prevented social exclusion or increased unemployment. it is time, not now, that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are given top priority by the european commission and the member states in a growth perspective. each state will have to put in place a national employment plan, which means that the emphasis will have to be on a large number of subjects such as, inter alia, training, retraining, microcredit, apprenticeship, paid traineeships, etc. but, as commissioner andor said earlier, we have 23 million unemployed in europe, but also 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises and 23 billion in unused european funds for employment. we could almost make it a strategy 2323. and that is not to mention the €60 billion of unallocated cohesion funds. in denmark and the netherlands, social initiatives based on flexicurity have been taken and have proved their effectiveness. let's take a leaf out of it. it also means that our social policy as a whole must be more appropriate, with social incentives more favourable than those linked to unemployment and active support for all socially virtuous enterprises. we had poverty reduction targets to be met by 2020, and we already know that they will not be met, unless strong and adequate action is taken by the member states. our role as parliamentarians must therefore be exercised to the full and it is our responsibility to demand that the same energy devoted to taking strong economic governance measures should also be devoted to ambitious, effective and binding social governance measures.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this is certainly not the best time to speak, but i too would like to congratulate the excellent cooperation between the rapporteurs, mrs cornelissen, mrs berès and myself, and the fictitious rapporteurs. in the light of the debate, i would say that what is needed today is that after words there should be deeds, and that is certainly the most difficult thing to do. on the formal side, i would like to recall that the 2012 financial year of the european semester will be the first to be covered by the new legal framework for strengthened economic governance. in order to ensure that parliament is properly informed, we urge you, commissioner, to provide a detailed assessment of the implementation of the country-specific recommendations by the member states. the council, for its part, must publicly explain its position in the economic dialogue with parliament when it deviates significantly from the commission's recommendations and proposals. of course, the states may have a margin of appreciation in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the new legal framework provides for the proper involvement of the parliament in the european semester in order to increase transparency and accountability of decisions taken, in particular through the economic dialogue as provided for in the relevant secondary legislation. in this regard, i would like to end by recalling the requests made by parliament to the council and the commission in its resolution of 1 december 2011. it is important to give a public and precise response to this resolution. it is a question of the reality and effectiveness of the democratic control which this parliament has.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the guidelines for the structural funds. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in particular, i will support a proposal to work with the member states on a budgetary classification which makes it possible to check what contribution the member states make, for example, to the achievement of the objectives of the 2020 strategy rather than to military expenditure or whatever else. madam minister, thank you for your time. you said that you would report on this debate and the work of this parliament at the ecofin meeting on 21 february. that is exactly what we want. it is in this spirit that we want to advance european democracy and it is in this spirit that we will meet on 27 and 28 february with representatives of all the national parliaments so that the democratic dimension can also be brought to life in this european semester. finally, madam minister, i would like to ask you, at this ecofin council, to take the same account of the new impact study which the commission is to publish tomorrow, on the assessment of the taxation of financial transactions.
mr president, we shall vote on the report by mr siekierski. on behalf of all our colleagues, and in particular the members of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on agriculture and rural development, we would like to say that we will accept the extension of the programme for aid to the most deprived for two years, on the basis of the agreement reached in the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, today is a great day, because the food aid programme for the poorest of the poor has been saved. there was talk of suppressing it, that would have been absolute madness, political madness. who could have imagined that europe would turn a blind eye to such an important issue? we won that battle, and we should be proud of that. we must congratulate those who have contributed to this victory and particularly the governments who have helped us - i want to thank the french government in particular - and all the members who have followed us. but it's only a battle, the war remains open, since we saved this plan for two years. i simply want to say, as quietly as possible, to our friends the german, british, swedish, danish, dutch and czech governments, who are opposed to the renewal of this plan, that in two years we shall meet again. i simply want to say that a number of members - particularly the french members of the presidential majority - will in any event, and in any case, solemnly oppose any challenge to this plan. europe cannot simply ignore those who are hungry. this is an obvious question of european solidarity.
in writing. the schengen area, which includes 22 eu member states and 4 non-eu countries (iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein), offers their citizens the possibility of free movement. the abolition of internal borders between these states in favour of a single external border leads them to harmonise their external border controls and to strengthen their police and judicial cooperation. in order to fulfil the objective underlying the schengen agreements, the creation of an 'area of freedom, security and justice', it is essential to fully involve these four third countries. i therefore voted in favour of their participation in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in implementing the schengen acquis.
in writing. the schengen area, which simplifies the daily lives of our citizens and businesses by opening the internal borders of the european union to people, capital and services, is now expanding. i supported the request of iceland, switzerland, lichtenstein and norway, countries in the heart of europe but not part of the european union, to become associated states of the schengen acquis. the aim of this text is to formalise their participation in the process of drawing up the texts within the schengen comitology committees, which are composed of representatives of the governments of the associated states, the council of ministers and the european commission. the latter have the opportunity to explain the problems they face in relation to a measure or to respond to the problems encountered by the other delegations. they are also entitled to make suggestions. however, as they only participate in the preparation of acts, the associated states do not participate in the votes in the schengen comitology committees and withdraw when they vote , says rapporteur timothy kirkhope.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which allows iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland to participate in the commission's work on the implementation of the schengen acquis. this limited and supervised participation will make it possible to strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice of the european union and to identify more rapidly the problems related to police and judicial cooperation and the control of the external borders of our territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kirkhope report. in adopting this report, parliament gave its approval to an arrangement between the european union, iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland on their participation in the work of committees assisting the european commission in the implementation of the schengen acquis. the agreement provides that these states will be associated with the work as observers without having the right to vote. in addition, they will be asked to contribute financially to administrative expenses. finally, the arrangement contains a joint declaration stating that this association cannot be regarded as a legal or political precedent for any other area of cooperation.
in writing. this arrangement, negotiated since 2006, associates iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis by the european commission and the committees assisting it. it is right that these countries which are part of the schengen area should also have a say in the application of the schengen acquis which directly concerns them. these states will be able to participate in the work of the committees as observers and to speak, in particular to explain the problems they are facing. involving all the countries participating in the schengen area also means working towards greater uniformity in the application of the schengen acquis.
in writing. with 73 million job vacancies in europe by 2020, it is vital that we think about how to fill these jobs in the most efficient way. i believe that this will be achieved by training a skilled workforce which will provide new opportunities, especially for young people, who represent 20% of the total eu population. remember, 1 in 5 youths today suffers from depression!
in writing. i approved the guidelines for member states' employment policies for 2012, which envisage continuing the efforts started two years ago. i support this policy, which is based on strong annual guidelines: participation in the labour market, the fight against social exclusion and poverty, and the quality and performance of education and training systems. we all agree that we must do more to put europe back on the path to growth and jobs, but this must not come at the expense of the necessary strengthening of european economic governance and the imperative of reducing public deficits. we are convinced, as members of the centre-right, that we will only get out of this crisis by permanently restoring our public finances. any other reasoning is purely selfish, for it places the burden of our present welfare on the shoulders of our children who will have to pay off our debts. but sound finances do not mean declining growth and unemployment. on the contrary, they are the guarantors, the indispensable foundations for the return of growth and full employment. it therefore stresses the need to marry a responsible economic policy with the eu's long-term growth objectives.
in writing. today we say yes, the employment guidelines set in 2010 are still valid, but we also say, beware, this approval is not just for the council and the commission: it is conditional on action! it is high time for action, apart from austerity and budgetary restraint for employment in our member states. france, like many other eu countries, has experienced an explosion in unemployment in recent years. so yes, to promote quality employment, to develop a skilled workforce, to promote lifelong learning, to improve the quality of education and training systems and to promote social inclusion - all these objectives which make up the guidelines are more relevant than ever, but we want the means to achieve these objectives to be developed and finally put into practice! the commission started a movement at the end of january by launching a youth employment initiative. we must continue: the social consequences of the crisis are too serious to spare all the energy and resources at our disposal.
in writing. following the adoption of several european measures aimed at imposing strict budgetary discipline in europe, this vote confirms the validity of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for 2012 and is timely in recalling that growth and employment are what europe needs to revive its economy. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs pervenche berès. it is of crucial importance to concentrate efforts on combating unemployment and poverty, which are increasingly affecting citizens. to this end, states should continue to make every effort to increase the participation of women and men in the labour market and to promote quality education and training for young people, in line with the objectives of these guidelines. i also support this report because it proposes a more democratic governance of the european union in economic policy than the one that wants to impose financial sanctions on states, by establishing a dialogue on economic policies between the council and the european parliament, with the participation of national parliaments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the berès report on the guidelines for the employment policy of the european union for 2020. the europe 2020 strategy helps to steer the european union's economic system towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of social cohesion and productivity.
in writing. the 2011 employment guidelines were synonymous with raising the retirement age, making the labour market more flexible and lowering wages. the terrible results of such a policy must not have escaped mrs berès. however, with the majority of this parliament, it proposes to approve their continuation for the year 2012. i am voting against and denouncing this text.
in writing. in a single market in full integration, where member states are becoming increasingly interdependent, coordination of employment policies is a key objective to ensure coherence and effectiveness of action. in voting for the pervenche berès report, i support this objective by endorsing the maintenance for 2012 of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states adopted by the council decision of 21 october 2010. these are essential to achieving this objective: increasing labour market participation, reducing structural unemployment, promoting quality employment and social inclusion, promoting lifelong learning, improving the performance of education systems and combating poverty. these are necessities i've been advocating for a long time. finally, i welcome the commission's willingness, echoed today by the european parliament, to work for the stability of these lines until 2014, so that the emphasis is not on the conclusions of incessant negotiations, on their marginal modification, but on their practical application. it is now the duty of the member states to take them into account in their employment policies.
in writing. in the context of its europe 2020 strategy, the union has established a list of priorities and joint initiatives to promote smart, sustainable and job-rich growth. the recovery in employment has thus been identified as the main engine of growth and rightly recognised as a factor in greater social cohesion at european level. since their adoption in october 2010, guidelines have thus been guiding national employment policies. the member states, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, must reduce structural unemployment, train a skilled workforce, promote quality jobs and provide lifelong vocational training. the european parliament has voted in favour of extending the employment guidelines until 2014. this position, which i share, reflects a major realization of the european institutions: employment is our priority and we must consider all the ways of promoting and sustaining it. the member states have the possibility of using the european social fund for this purpose.
in writing. i voted against the berès report calling on the european parliament to approve the proposal for a commission and council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the vote is to ensure that the employment guidelines are 'compatible' with eu economic policies. it is already a programme and we see more and more what it means every day, through the sad example of what is being imposed on greece. it is 'to make the europe 2020 strategy a reality', 'to boost europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness', 'to make the labour market able to react quickly to economic developments', 'to respect the stability and growth pact' and 'to give member states clear guidance on the preparation of their national reform programmes'. that's all there is to it. the second is to reduce structural unemployment, develop a skilled workforce and promote quality jobs. these are just words sacrificed to the austerity policies.
in writing. as a supporter of european solidarity, i voted in favour of maintaining the edp for 2012 and 2013. this vote shall take place after the agreement has been reached in the council. however, this agreement can in no way be a long-term solution. we must now think beyond 2013 and how to reform the edp and enable the poorest to continue to benefit from this programme.
in writing. the european parliament made progress this week on a crucial issue: a compromise was finally reached with the member states to maintain funding for the european programme to help the most deprived for 2012 and 2013. the programme provides food for more than 13 million people in 15 member states. we must now work to ensure the future of this programme beyond 2013, and i can assure you that the european parliament will continue to fight on this issue. my colleagues and i have demanded that the european commission and the member states provide for a transitional mechanism in the short term and change the legislation in the medium term to allow this programme to continue. i proposed that the european social fund (esf) should be involved in this. finally, i believe that this programme is also an instrument to combat food waste. in any case, if we are to save money in a time of crisis, it is certainly not by leaving 13 million vulnerable europeans on the side of the road!
in writing. for the time being, the essential is saved. we get the continuation of the edp for 2012 and 2013. the annual budget of 500 million will be retained in full for the next two years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. europe, they said, is built little by little, it finds its momentum in crises, when it is facing the wall. this time, it's a bust! the programme is only being suspended, which in the present period, when austerity policies are hitting the european peoples hard and the union is in the midst of an existential crisis, is tantamount to denying the future of the eu: because there will be no eu in the future without a social europe, without rebalancing the economic dimension by taking account of the social. so there's still a lot of work to be done... we must now think of new and effective solidarity mechanisms, in collaboration with the european commission, to ensure that this european action in favour of the poorest is sustained.
in writing. i voted in favour of maintaining the funds of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) for two more years (2012 and 2013). it is our responsibility to ensure the survival of such a programme which has helped over 18 million people in need in 19 member states of the european union since 1987 (within the framework of the cap). the programme will continue to provide food to many charities fighting hunger, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. now our new battle, in which i want to fully engage, is to ensure the long-term sustainability of this important solidarity programme by guaranteeing its funding beyond 2013.
in writing. this is the culmination of intensive diplomatic work by bruno lemaire, french minister for agriculture, at the council level and by the european parliamentarians at the level of our institution. europe is thus demonstrating that it is a place of solidarity with the european citizens.
in writing. in my vote, i have approved the council's position which will allow the pead to be extended at its current funding level for another two years. it would have been inconceivable to reduce it, as the crisis has increased the number of people dependent on food distribution. this solution is, however, only temporary. two years is the length of the compromise we voted for. two years were needed for the more than 13 million europeans for whom this programme is vital. but two years is not enough: i will remain committed to finding a lasting solution, to maintaining this programme, which is essential for solidarity, in the european budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to maintain the european programme of aid to the most deprived and to ensure its funding for 2012 and 2013. i remain engaged in the european parliament, in particular by calling on the european commission and the council of the eu to find a solution to continue this programme after 2013, which provides food aid to more than 18 million of our citizens and which we need more than ever in these times of crisis.
in writing. 25 years ago, coluche went to jacques delors, then president of the commission, to ask for his support for the 'restos du cœur'. in the interests of its image, the european community had agreed to make available to charitable organizations part of its agricultural stocks so that they could distribute meals to those who, already victims of brussels' policies, could no longer afford to eat. she was buying a conscience at a high price. today, this aid amounts to 500 million euros. it's about how poverty has exploded. but the systematic dismantling of the common agricultural policy has put stocks at risk, and, with the economic crisis, some member states have wanted to make savings on a budget line which represents only a tiny part of the 150 billion in the european budget. the court of justice of luxembourg wanted to abolish 80% of the aid. this decision has caused such a public outcry that we are now voting to extend this scheme for two years, with no assurance that it will be viable beyond 2013. that doesn't solve the problem! for those of us who voted for this aid, it is a piss-off.
in writing. it is a great achievement for meps, who on 15 february saved the food programme providing food aid to the 18 million poorest eu citizens in 20 member states. last april, it was estimated, under the auspices of some member states, that the programme would have to reduce its funding from €500 million in 2011 to €133 million in 2012, which would have been catastrophic in these times of crisis for millions of european citizens whose survival depends on the programme. we therefore opposed this decision and already last july the european parliament had asked for an interim solution in order to save the programme and avoid a reduction in food aid. thanks to parliament's intervention, the programme will be effective until the end of 2013 and will have an annual budget of €500 million.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which gives the european parliament's consent to the continuation in 2012 and 2013 of the european programme of food aid for the most deprived, because of the extremely urgent situation faced by charitable associations and food banks. however, i cannot be satisfied with the continuation of this programme for only two years and i am bitterly sorry about the franco-german agreement which, although it has led to a release of the situation in the medium term, threatens to end this programme as from 2014. this is simply unacceptable, at a time when the economic and social crisis is plunging more and more europeans into precariousness and poverty. my socialist colleagues and i will repeat that we must build a more social europe. it is our duty to act so that our citizens can feed themselves and live in dignity. this is why we must work and mobilize now to ensure the continuation of the food aid programme by building it on an appropriate legal basis in the next financial period 2014-2020. we're running out of time.
in writing. the european programme of aid to the most deprived people has generated a strong and passionate reaction throughout 2011, following the decision of the court of justice of the european union to annul the provisions allowing the redistributive associations to buy foodstuffs on the markets under the common agricultural policy. this system was introduced in 1987 because there were agricultural surpluses, which are no longer the case today. following this decision, which was introduced by germany, france and the members of the parliamentary majority mobilised to preserve this programme which is essential to the food supply of over 13 million people. in november, a compromise was finally reached between the member states, which guaranteed the existence of this programme for the years 2012 and 2013. the european parliament, in turn, supported the agreement on 15 february, well aware of the urgency of releasing funds to relaunch the supply process in a particularly difficult period combining an unprecedented financial and economic crisis and extreme weather conditions.
in writing. today's vote is a success for europe and will help 18 million poor europeans for another 2 years. however, we must not give up and remain united in order to continue to support those in need. france is also committed to maintaining national food aid to associations. food aid to the poor was condemned. it is thanks to france's action that the european parliament has just saved it. with nicolas sarkozy, europe is also solidarity!
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has endorsed the agreement reached in the council last december to extend the funding of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) for the years 2012 and 2013 with retroactive effect from 1 january 2012. the edp is essential to help charities carry out their missions. so, keeping it is a great relief. however, this compromise must not be accepted. an emergency solution has been found, the priority must now be to find a lasting solution. we cannot be satisfied with this partial agreement. the council of the union must take up its responsibilities and stop retreating behind legal arguments.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by our colleague czesław adam siekierski approving the decision taken by the eu council on 23 january 2012 to maintain the funds of the european plan of aid to the most deprived (pead) for two more years in 2012 and 2013. i am glad that a solution has been found to unblock the situation and not deprive the associations and the most deprived of this essential support. it would have been completely incomprehensible, especially in view of the serious economic crisis we are going through, if we had not been able to find a solution to maintain this european programme, a symbol of european solidarity with the most deprived. but the battle is not yet won, we must now make sure that this fund continues beyond 2013.
in writing. while the european union is made up of developed countries, almost 20% of its population lives below the poverty line and the situation will not improve if food aid to the poorest is withdrawn in 2014. the abandonment of this programme, which represents only 1% of the total cap budget, will only accelerate the growing impoverishment of the population. this is a reflection of the situation in europe today. when it comes to supporting the banks, we reach agreements, but when it comes to poverty, european solidarity no longer exists, reducing the contribution to 23 cents per person. but that is not surprising, since the european union appears to be equal to itself, dominated by the will of germany, whose ultra-liberal policies are leaving thousands of people in unbearable misery. as in the time of john i of france, social europe is stillborn and will remain only in the imagination of the europeans who persist in believing in this social utopia. i am voting for this recommendation and for the extension of this aid, but, convinced that it will be withdrawn in 2014, i am asking that the sums allocated to france under the eafrd (eur 73 million) be deducted from our contribution.
in writing. the decision taken by the council under pressure from certain governments is totally unacceptable. even as it imposes unheard-of restrictions on the peoples of europe, the council is destroying one of the european union's few solidarity mechanisms. he even takes away charity from those he starves. it's a shame, you know? today he has given members only one choice: to let good people starve in the days to come or to accept aid today and its disappearance tomorrow. this europe is worthless. we're going to rebuild it.
in writing. i wanted to make my position clear in favour of this reform, in order to legally guarantee aid to the poorest for 2012 and 2013. a compromise was reached last year, at a time when the eu was threatened by germany and the nordic countries. i would like to commend the decisive action taken by france and the other countries. this is a big step. but we must remain mobilized and put aid on the long-term agenda. the same countries that put it in danger the first time want it gone out of existence by 2014. solidarity and unity are at the root of europe. these countries send a message that contradicts the realities experienced by millions of our fellow citizens. in the gard, for the associations that accompany the most deprived on a daily basis, this help is valuable, even vital. i will continue to defend these values.
in writing. for 25 years now, the european programme for aid to the most deprived has helped 18 billion european citizens every year. because of a two-year deadlock in the council, a decision had to be taken urgently to ensure that the funding was extended, and thus help the people in need, by getting the associations concerned out of a difficult situation. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation by mr czeslaw adam siekierski, which takes up the compromise reached with the council. this text contains key points, such as the continuation of funding until 2013 inclusive and the retroactivity of the decision as of 1 january 2012. the council's position also follows the main recommendations made by the european parliament, which i strongly support: 100% eu funding, the possibility of giving preference to products from the eu, the display of eu participation - a key provision to make the added value of european action more readable - and the reimbursement of storage costs borne by the associations. i now hope that the debate will continue to ensure a future for this programme after 2013 and that the commission will play its part by publishing a proposal in the near future.
in writing. europe is an exciting economic adventure in its early days; subsequently it has a strong political anchorage; finally, it develops its social dimension and is involved in improving the living conditions of its citizens. the european union, true to its history and its founding principles, has therefore turned its attention to the protection of the weakest, those who are struggling to survive, those who are hungry. as some of my colleagues have said, it is true that food aid is a matter for the member states, which provide for the needs of the poorest as best they can. however, given the serious social and even humanitarian consequences of situations of extreme poverty, europe cannot afford to be without a food distribution programme. yet this has been the case for the last two years (distribution blocked for legal reasons) and it is, most certainly, thousands of europeans who have paid the price. i therefore welcomed the news of a compromise to relaunch the programme for the period 2012-13, a compromise which i voted in favour of in plenary.
in writing. the mobilisation of civil society, of certain governments - notably that of france - and the action of the european parliament has paid off, and we should be pleased. the eapp will be extended until at least 2013, allowing charities across europe to get some respite in these times of severe economic crisis, and giving us time to convince those who still block the renewal of the programme after 2013 that europe only makes sense if it also promotes solidarity with its most vulnerable citizens. more than 18 million homeless, unemployed, elderly or disabled people, large families and single parents depend on european aid. can we just say to them, "enjoy it, it won't last"? the new european social fund regulation provides for the filling of the gaps caused by the disappearance of available agricultural stocks in order to continue to help the poorest. the regulation, which is currently being co-decided on, will be an opportunity for the european parliament to show that the interests of some states cannot be at odds with the interests of all and with our vision of a social and solidarity-based europe.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the continuation of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (pead) for two more years in 2012 and 2013, an agreement reached in october in the council of the european union. the blocking minority in the council has given in to the need not to deprive associations and the most deprived of essential support. but this is not a compromise. it was necessary to find an emergency solution, but now the priority is to find a long-term solution. we cannot be satisfied with this partial agreement, and i call on the council of the european union not to retreat behind legal arguments. the european states must now prove their willingness to act.
in writing. in the digital age, the demand for radio waves is increasing. it is therefore essential that the union develops a genuine policy in this area. that is why i have approved the first common european radio spectrum programme. the gradual switch-over from analogue to digital tv by 2013 will free up radio frequencies for mobile internet. the programme also advocates access to high-speed internet in remote areas.
in writing. i supported the recommendation to make the 800 mhz frequency band available to telecom operators. today it is used for television, tomorrow it will be used to extend and make much more efficient our wireless broadband internet access, starting on 1 january 2013. this scarce resource is a driver of economic progress for citizens, as strategic planning and harmonisation of spectrum use will be used in many areas, including shipping, health, the environment and defence. this programme 'will offer us opportunities for european industry as well as for new services and new growth', said my swedish colleague gunnar hökmark of the european people's party, adding that 'it is not just about telecommunications but also about giving the eu a new economic momentum' to regain its competitiveness in a new global economy that now includes major competitors such as china and india.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the reorganisation and liberalisation of radio spectrum bands, which will enable all our citizens, in urban and rural areas, to better enjoy the benefits of digital technologies and fast broadband connections.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will encourage the use of mobile broadband and stimulate economic growth in our territories. in may 2011, we approved measures to accelerate the development of mobile broadband for all, using the radio spectrum freed up as a result of the switch from analogue to digital television. the allocation of radio frequencies is a matter for national authorities and not the eu, but the rules on how to share the spectrum between internet providers and users must be decided at european level. under the agreement, eu member states should free up the 800 mhz frequency band for wireless broadband services by 1 january 2013. a pan-european telecommunications market will thus be created, where new services can create new opportunities to open up territories and stimulate growth in a market of 500 million consumers.
in writing. at the request of the european parliament, the commission published its multiannual radio spectrum programme in september 2010. this programme sets out the policy guidelines and means to be implemented for the harmonised use of radio spectrum in the european union for the period 2011-2015. it also provides for common measures to increase efficiency and flexibility, to promote innovation and to encourage competition. finally, it called for the implementation of an inventory of current and emerging spectrum needs. access to radio spectrum is essential for a wide range of activities from telephony and broadband to transport, energy, research and development and space applications. it also enables all european citizens, in urban and rural settings, to enjoy the benefits of digital technologies and fast broadband connections. for all these reasons i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. in the face of the crisis that hit the dairy sector hard in 2008-2010 and the end of quotas in 2015, measures were taken to strengthen the bargaining power of producers, make contracts between producers and buyers mandatory, and give greater visibility to professional organisations, which i supported. i welcome these major advances in the dairy sector.
in writing. i voted this week for a text which directly concerns dairy farmers. the sector has been in a severe crisis, prolonged and aggravated by the global economic crisis. the resulting price instability is deeply destabilising for our producers, who already face the planned end of milk quotas by 2015. the text amends the contractual rules to increase the bargaining power of milk producers, to guarantee them fairer prices for the raw milk they produce and to help them prepare for the end of quotas. like all the parties except the green group, we have taken our responsibilities! producer organisations will be able to negotiate on behalf of their collective up to 33% of a state's milk production or up to 3.5% of european production. the text will also improve the transparency and in-depth analysis of data on milk production in the union, which should help to restore the relative stability of the past. although the rapporteur, james nicholson, felt that this text could have been more ambitious, this compromise represents a considerable step forward for our dairy farmers and is designed to protect the most vulnerable.
in writing. this text is partly a response to the terrible crisis experienced by the sector in 2008-2010, when prices paid to producers had collapsed dramatically. producers will now be able to group together to have a greater say in negotiations with processors and distributors. new tools, provided for by european legislation, are at their disposal to promote their interests and participate in the management of their markets. the european parliament will continue to pay attention to the dairy sector, particularly as other steps are approaching, such as the issue of contracting throughout the chain or a mechanism to ensure that disadvantaged areas do not lose their milk production once quotas are abolished, which is planned for 2015. we will ensure that the 2014 and 2018 progress reports provide an opportunity to make further proposals to avoid an insurmountable shock to the dairy sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the nicholson report because i believe it provides a number of answers to the crisis in the milk sector in 2009. i am satisfied with the solutions proposed by the agri committee, which lead to greater stability in the dairy sector. i think it is urgent to regulate supply and to ensure a fair price level, as we move towards the end of milk quotas by 2015. this is essential to end the unfair commercial practices that are plaguing dairy farmers. two proposals in the report have particularly caught my attention: the introduction of a new european legal framework for inter-branch organisations and the obligation to draw up contracts fixing volumes and prices over time. this is good news for dairy farmers who are seeing their protection strengthened.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on contract negotiations in the dairy sector. the commission notes that the aid is part of the compensation for the damage caused by the crisis in the dairy sector in 2008-2010, when prices paid to producers plummeted. it also prepares milk producers for the scheduled end of milk quotas in 2015. to this end, it aims to increase the bargaining power of milk producers, in order to guarantee them fairer prices for their products, without, however, infringing the right to competition. to this end, the new regulation provides, inter alia, that milk producers will be able to join producer associations to create a real counterweight to processors, and thus ensure a fairer distribution of added value from one end of the supply chain to the other. in the long term, this approach aims to provide milk producers with fairer living conditions. today, i therefore encourage milk producers to make full use of these new tools provided by european legislation to put their interests first, to find their place in the market and to prepare for the 'post-quota era'.
in writing. the adoption of this text is to be welcomed, as the reasons for satisfaction are real. while not all is perfect, the policy shifts from the decisions taken in recent years are substantial, particularly with regard to the power given to producers to group together to give greater weight in negotiations with processors and distributors. interprofessionalism has become an integral part of the european vocabulary, and the need to allow producers of pdo/pgi cheeses to manage their production volumes has finally been recognised. other advances, such as contractual arrangements along the whole chain or a mechanism to ensure that disadvantaged areas do not lose their milk production as soon as quotas are abolished, will have to be made in the coming years. the 'smooth landing' promised by the then commissioner, mrs fischer boel, must be a reality for european producers. producers will now have to make full use of the new tools provided for by european legislation in order to promote their interests as much as possible and to participate in the management of their markets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which increases the bargaining power of milk producers so that they can obtain fairer prices for their products. it will help to break down unfair trading practices that impact on the final price paid by consumers.
in writing. the european union decided that agriculture was a sector like any other, subject to the vagaries of the world market. that is why it decided to abolish milk quotas, which helped to regulate the milk market and did little to support the prices paid to farmers, at a time when large producing countries want milk to be considered a strategic product and, as such, to be excluded from wto agreements. the solution it has found to replace this disgraceful regulation is the contractual relationship between producer associations and the dairies. but this does not solve any of the problems in the sector, at least at the level of the farmers. it does not guarantee the prices paid to them, their strengthening in the negotiations with the major dairy groups, or even their survival. the vast majority of professionals believe that this system, which is designed for the agro-food industry and is financed by the industry, will lead to a concentration of production in huge industrial plants located in easily accessible areas, at the expense of established and small farms. and this without any benefit to the consumers. we therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it strengthens the role of milk producer organisations in negotiating prices and volumes with companies. while this is a first response to the milk crisis, further action is needed to prevent a repeat of the serious crisis the sector has experienced in recent years. as negotiations on the reform of the cap after 2013 continue, we must focus our efforts on ensuring that farmers and livestock farmers have the tools to carry out their production successfully and enjoy fairer incomes.
in writing. the european parliament supported the adoption of the 'milk package' by a large majority. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the dairy sector. it will allow for sufficient preparation in advance for the milk sector's exit from the quota system planned for 2015. the 'milk package' as it emerges from the negotiations between the council and parliament is a real step forward for milk producers, who are given far more substantial negotiating power than they have had so far. they will have the opportunity to group together in order to have a greater influence on processors and distributors. other ambitious measures have been adopted, and i welcome this. i am thinking of the recognition of inter-branch organisations, which will facilitate dialogue between all the actors in the supply chain. i am also thinking of the producers of cheeses with a protected designation of origin (pdo) or a protected geographical indication (pgi), to whom the european union has granted the possibility of managing their own production volumes. this is a provision which will undoubtedly contribute to the economic vitality of our rural areas.
in writing. the nicholson report on the 'milk package' has just been adopted by a very large majority in the plenary today and i welcome that. this text is largely a response to the terrible crisis in the dairy sector in 2008-2010, during which the prices paid to producers had collapsed dramatically. the report is not perfect, but it is a first step in the adaptation of the dairy sector to the end of quotas. my colleagues in the french epp delegation are particularly concerned about this issue. their continuous involvement has enabled milk producers to benefit from new tools provided for by european legislation. these tools will enable them to promote their interests as effectively as possible and to participate in the management of their markets.
in writing. i am in favour of the management of production in advance. milk quotas fulfil this function, thereby controlling volumes and thus regulating markets and ensuring remunerative prices for producers. this text suggests exactly the opposite. it endorses the phasing out of milk quotas by 2015. despite the terrible consequences that this deregulation is already having on dairy farmers all over europe, nothing is being proposed here to stop the disaster. not only will the contractual nature of the proposed deliveries reflect the existing balance of power, but it is not mandatory. i am voting against this text.
in writing. in recent years, european dairy farmers have experienced an unexpected and dramatic decline in their income. the dairy sector was hit hard by the crisis. as representatives of the european people, we had to come up with solutions that were right for everyone. but only if we understand the causes. that is why i voted in favour of this text, because it is a response, albeit in part, to the problems of the sector. above all, it strengthens the bargaining power of producers in their contractual relations with distributors. the professionals will be able to associate more easily in order to weigh more heavily. this crisis has at least the merit of demonstrating that any deregulation is not beneficial for european agriculture. there are areas we must preserve. let us try to remember this in the model we want to impose for the cap after 2013.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's report on contractual relations in the dairy sector. the report does not call into question the idea of total abolition of milk quotas by 2015, although the dramatic effects of the policies of phasing out the quotas already in place on farmers' incomes are evident. we reject a policy based on the law of the jungle of free and undistorted competition for a commodity like milk, and which leaves the dairy industry the power to impose its conditions on the producers. we are, on the contrary, in favour of a supply-regulation policy which respects farmers' incomes and food sovereignty. it is not enough to recognize the imbalance in the supply chain and the unequal bargaining power of each side, but we must also find the means to maintain dairy farms throughout the european continent and to ensure that producers are paid fairly.
in writing. within the european union, the legislative initiative lies with the european commission. however, the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the european parliament's right of legislative initiative, which allows us to ask the european commission to submit a proposal. in order to improve the treatment of own-initiative reports, particularly at the plenary stage, i endorsed the decision of the conference of presidents, which considered that own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of annual activity reports and monitoring reports should be treated as strategic reports.
in writing. the amendments to article 48 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament envisaged by the afco committee do not all seem appropriate to me. i agree with the idea that the handling of own-initiative reports should be improved, but we should also not overload the agenda with non-legislative reports. that is why i voted in favour of amendment no 6, which maintains the division vote (article 163) and the roll-call vote (article 167) for amendments tabled in plenary and resolutions of parliamentary committees. i support the proposal not to apply the split vote to alternative resolutions. i share the idea of letting the conference of presidents decide on the strategic nature of own-initiative reports.
in writing. this report aims to improve the treatment of own-initiative reports, which are non-legislative reports, in particular at the plenary stage. the idea is to avoid overloading the agenda of plenary sessions with these reports while preserving the right of members to draw up own-initiative reports, established by the european parliament's rules of procedure. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. this report refuses to extend the possibilities of requesting roll-call votes and division votes to each provision of the own-initiative reports. these instruments enable members to be accountable for the positions they take on important issues. there is no reason to prevent this even on own-initiative reports which, together with resolutions and other declarative texts, form the bulk of what is voted on in this house. does this parliament, which has no legislative initiative, no spontaneous voice, no real right to amend, want to be just a machine for saying 'yes' to liberal follies?
in writing. my colleagues from the epp and i voted in favour of the introduction of stability bonds which could help to promote the stability of the euro area in the medium term. our decision was based on the green paper of the european commission. the resolution calls for the pooling of sovereign debt of the eurozone countries, as proposed by a group of german economists. the text, however, recalls that other financial instruments must be put in place quickly to meet short-term needs and that we must not think that stability bonds will solve our problems. i voted in favour of a resolution which, for the time being, is intended to give some thought to the possible conditions for the establishment of such a system. finally, i am in favour of greater coordination of budgetary policies in europe, which would be required by the introduction of stability obligations.
in writing. the adoption of a roadmap for the creation of the conditions for the joint issuance of part of the sovereign debt in the form of eurobonds is a longstanding demand of the socialist and democratic group. that is why i supported the adoption of this resolution, because eurobonds not only establish a system of responsibility and solidarity between member states, by helping the most heavily indebted countries to gain access to credit at a reduced price, but also because they commit to deepening economic and monetary union. moreover, they are a means of strengthening the stability and resilience of the euro area in the long term. eurobonds therefore provide a sustainable alternative to the drastic austerity measures imposed on citizens and provide a common european response to the sovereign debt crisis affecting states and their populations.
in writing. parliament asked the commission to present a report on the possibility of introducing european securities, which is an integral part of the agreement between parliament and the council on the six-pack of economic governance legislation. this resolution is a first response to the commission's green paper of 23 november 2011 on the feasibility of introducing stability obligations. it will be followed by an own-initiative report. i voted in favour of this resolution, which shows that stability bonds could be an additional means of encouraging compliance with the stability and growth pact and of promoting stability in the euro area in the medium term.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds, following the green paper launched by the european commission on this subject. these so-called 'euro bonds' are among the options for promoting the stability of the euro area in the medium term, but they cannot be a one-size-fits-all solution to the problems we are currently facing, in particular the european sovereign debt crisis. the necessary prerequisite is, of course, the establishment of strengthened economic governance, the further consolidation of our public finances through common budgetary discipline, and the strengthening of the convergence of our economic and budgetary policies. it is only when these principles are established and the implementation of the treaty on financial stability is completed that a possible joint bond issue will be possible, useful and seen as such by the countries of the european union. in addition, technical issues, notably the question of debt segmentation, remain to be resolved.
in writing. this resolution argues that stability bonds can promote the stability of the euro area. yet these bonds foster dependence on the free financial markets that are precisely causing instability. they also serve as a justification for forcing states to converge in stages towards a policy of permanent rigor. in doing so, they hide solutions that should be taken urgently. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. i am voting against this text.
in writing. in the face of the crisis and the adoption of austerity measures, some sections of the population are hit harder than others. young people are the first victims. while they represent 20% of the total population of the union, 1 in 5 young people are unemployed. the employment of young people must therefore be a priority. that is why i voted in favour of the cornelissen report.
in writing. in the context of the annual growth review, which will be approved at the european council on 1 and 2 march, the resolution by rapporteur marije cornelissen analyses more specifically the social aspects and the importance of measuring the social impact of policies in each country. the resolution warns that new fiscal consolidation measures could hit those at risk of poverty or social exclusion. as you know, the fight against poverty in europe is also one of my main priorities. i share the vision set out in the resolution of a european union that would focus more on decent work and work-life balance. as a mother, these concerns are mine. the text also stresses the need to develop comprehensive strategies for young unemployed people and the importance of reducing forms of precarious employment among young people. however, i remain convinced that there is no contradiction between the fiscal rebalancing measures currently being applied and the long-term growth objectives of the european union.
in writing. strengthening economic governance, reducing public deficits, modernising public administration, etc. is this enough to provide employment for 75% of the population or to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020? i don't think he did. employment and social policy issues are becoming increasingly rare in the current political discourse. ensure that fiscal austerity policies do not impede social justice, increase poverty and increase unemployment... in short, it is essential to ensure that the social effects of the crisis are not compounded by the social effects of austerity. it is not acceptable to have only rigour as a political horizon. the strategy put forward in the cornelissen report involves refocusing budgets on employment and social policy in order to support the creation of quality jobs, to combat effectively youth unemployment and also poverty and social exclusion. ignoring the perverse effects of austerity policies is not an option. the road to the social europe that citizens have been waiting for seems to be a long one, but the ideas are there.
in writing. it is urgent that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy be a top priority for the european commission and the member states. in the national employment plan that each member state will publish next april, training must be adapted to the needs of enterprises; continuing training and retraining must be offered to employees; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. our social policy as a whole must be more adapted, we need more crèches, more favourable social incentives than those linked to unemployment, and active support for all socially virtuous enterprises. we must offer young people without qualifications paid apprenticeships or traineeships. there are 23 million smes in europe, we have 23 million unemployed, and unused european employment funds. let us not wait any longer, let us encourage initiatives and quickly implement those that have a positive assessment of employment. it is our responsibility to demand that the same energy that is used to take strong economic measures is also used to take ambitious and effective social measures.
in writing. for several months now, austerity plans have been proliferating in europe. greece is the most striking example. despite the efforts needed to combat the debt crisis, growth is still extremely low. there will be no exit from the crisis without a return to growth. austerity alone will not get us anywhere. i wanted to reiterate this by voting in favour of this text. budgetary discipline must be accompanied by strong measures for investment and employment. in the difficult economic and social times we are living through, the recovery of our public finances must not hinder measures to combat unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment.
in writing. i supported this report which, in the run-up to the spring european council, calls on the council to ensure coherence and show greater ambition in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in the report, parliament also called on the council to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reform, to improve the quality and rate of employment and the conditions for an increased rate of activity, to combat youth unemployment and poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this annual growth survey report stresses that the european commission's budgetary priorities for the coming year must be the economy, employment, social policy and reforms. the central message of this review presented at the end of 2011 is to call for efforts to be directed towards supporting jobs and growth. i voted for this report because it stresses the importance of finding a middle ground between support for growth and balanced public finances.
in writing. the text calls on (without naming her) mrs merkel to "stimulate domestic demand" in germany. it advocates a taxation system which is "fair, progressive, redistributive, efficient and effective". he is concerned about "endangering the public pension systems". i can relate to him on those points. but i cannot accept the increase in the retirement age, the flexibility of wage relations, the abolition of early retirement or the abolition of the 'tax burden of non-wage costs' which this text advocates. i vote against it.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report. it contains a number of positive things, such as increased investment in education and training, the fight against youth unemployment, increasing employment for women or ensuring the involvement of the social partners. one might hope that this is not just fine talk, but one may have doubts, especially when one reads that fiscal consolidation must be based on social justice or that austerity measures do not compromise social protection, or that there is no endangerment of public pension systems. unfortunately, we know how these guidelines are being implemented at present, particularly when it comes to helping businesses by removing the tax burden of labour-related wage costs, setting up benefit systems adapted to the new needs of the market to maintain employability or pushing governments, under the weight of the current crisis, to implement the necessary reform programmes. we know all too well the disastrous consequences of such reforms. to stop the system, it would take more than wishful thinking.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jean-paul gauzès on the annual growth survey 2012. this review is used to set the european commission's economic and budgetary priorities for the coming year. this year's focus is on strengthening economic governance, reducing public deficits and boosting growth. these priorities will be taken into account at the european council in march.
in writing. in the context of the annual growth review, my colleague from the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary affairs, jean-paul gauzès, provides some clarifications. like him, i support the five lines of work chosen by the european commission: to pursue the strategy of fiscal consolidation, to resume normal financing activities for the economy, to promote growth and competitiveness, to combat unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and to modernise public administration. but are these measures sufficient to restore confidence among european households, businesses and financial markets? it suggests assessing the social impact of economic policy instruments in the context of the european semester and calls for effective, socially fair and sustainable reform of pension and social security systems and growth-friendly fiscal policies. finally, the resolution calls on the european commission to convert the annual growth survey into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' in 2013 and to present it in a form that allows the european parliament to table amendments. we must be able to give our opinion on the annual proposals of the european commission!
in writing. it was not a foregone conclusion, but the idea is moving forward: no, fiscal austerity is not enough to restore growth. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european monetary system (ems) in the form of a single currency. that is the spirit of the gauzès report. it is up to the commission to highlight the measures taken by the states in the context of the implementation of their national reform programmes. it must return them to the commitments they have made! moreover, the recovery of the economy depends on our banks, which, by freezing investments, paralyse the development and activity of our smes. they must commit to lending more to the real economy. finally, with regard to the preparation of the european semester, i regret that parliament has been left out of the main lines of economic policy, which is still a matter that governments settle in secret. the commission is therefore asked to convert this annual growth review into annual guidelines for sustainable growth in 2013, in a form that allows parliament to play its part.
in writing. i fully agree with the position of jean-paul gauzès, rapporteur for the econ committee, on the contribution to the annual growth survey 2012. the own-initiative report clearly sets out the priorities for a return to growth in the long term. i share the view of the committee that we need to develop a strategy focused on employment, the competitiveness of our economies and budgetary discipline. only this responsible approach can safeguard our economies and thereby the well-being of our fellow citizens. the role of the european institutions must be to defend structural growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes, in addition to the continuation of budgetary discipline, new measures to break the spiral of the crisis. it called for greater efforts to promote growth and employment for young people. the youth unemployment rate, which was hit hard by the crisis and has now reached over 20% in the union as a whole, must now be a priority for our member states.
in writing. following the commission's communication on the annual growth survey 2012, the committee on economic and monetary affairs adopted the own-initiative report by my colleague jean-paul gauzès. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted by the council on 14 june. the report also calls for the modernisation of the union's public administration and services of general interest. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which comments on the findings of the 2012 annual growth survey. it welcomed the european commission's policy of reducing public spending and reiterated that the recovery of growth must be based on measures which do not place a greater burden on public finances.
in writing. the report deplores (if not denounces) "the socialisation of private losses through liquidity injections into the banking sector and the speculative behaviour of rating agencies and international financial centres". his merit stops at this proof of lucidity. the rest of the text accepts the austerity plans. it approved the european semester, which it proposed to submit to amendments by parliament alone, and only in its first phase. the commission's annual growth review is a welcome example of the social destruction proposed by the commission. it encourages the recapitalisation of banks without imposing any constraints on the interest rates they will subsequently impose. such a contribution was truly not worth making! i am voting against and denouncing this report and those who support it.
in writing. i voted against the report by jean-paul gauzès, ump mp, on the contribution to the annual growth survey 2012. the commission has again produced a dismaying report, as is now the custom. the analysis of growth made by these supporters of a forced liberal-conservative approach remains the same: to ensure fiscal consolidation, to seek a hypothetical growth based on competitiveness and private investment, on the constraint of the administration and public services... always the same repetition of the breakdown of the state in favour of the markets. the same political choices are leading european countries into economic recession and social regression, deepening social inequalities, impoverishing a growing number of people and violating fundamental rights, including social and environmental rights. this report is in line with the ideology which is destroying the european construction more and more every day, imposing authoritarian choices which destroy the european social model outside any democratic debate.
president of the council, italy. - mr president, it is a great honour for me and the italian government to be invited to the european parliament in plenary session to speak a few words. i would like to begin by paying tribute to the european parliament. it's really exciting for me to be in this place. i remember my first meeting with the european parliament in january 1995 for the confirmation hearings for a member of the european commission. for ten years since then, parliament has been a decisive interlocutor for me and i have seen the influence of the democratic life of europe grow in this chamber, in the chamber in brussels and in the chambers of the commission, and i have always found that, for the commission, of which i was a member - and i greet the commission representatives - parliament was a fundamental ally in carrying forward the construction of europe. i now sit in a seat in parliament that i have never had the opportunity to occupy before, that of the council, and it is a new experience to be responsible for the policy of a member state. i can assure you that for me the responsibility i feel towards my country is inseparable from the responsibility i feel as an italian towards the european union. (applause) i would like to thank i have seen too many times from brussels, as commissioner, national governments playing the role of accuser of the european institutions after having participated in decisions taken in the european institutions. well, i promised myself that i would never make this bad joke about the european union and i always explain to my fellow citizens, in parliament and elsewhere, that the important sacrifices and difficult reforms to which the italian citizens are called at this moment are not imposed by europe: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also something that europe asks us to do and recommends that we do, but it should not be blamed on the european union. i feel very much responsible for leading at this moment a country which has a raw material which is increasingly rare in the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i feel that it is my duty not to waste it but to cultivate this raw material and so i feel that i must exercise carefully this need to persuade the citizens, but on the basis of substantive arguments, and not only and not so much on the basis of european constraints. i call on my colleagues in other member states to show the same care and consideration for this fundamental common construction. italy is currently engaged, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a complex race to get out of the emergency. i believe that we are gradually succeeding in removing our country from the shadow zone in which it was placed for some time, as a possible source of problems, of contagion, of outbreaks in the eurozone. we are making all the necessary efforts in terms of budgetary consolidation and in terms of structural reforms. i want to remind you that last summer my predecessor, prime minister silvio berlusconi, took the initiative of bringing the italian state budget into balance in 2013, a couple of years before the other eu states. this commitment was made in an emergency situation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. we are determined to achieve this rebalancing of public accounts quickly, just as we are determined, with the particular configuration of government and relationship with parliament that currently exists in italy, to carry out the necessary structural reforms very quickly. of course italy is gradually consolidating its position in security - and there is still a long way to go - but i am very encouraged by what is happening. it will not be a country that merely passively adopts the political guidelines of the european union, but a country that will want to contribute more and more to determining these guidelines and to play the role that naturally belongs to a great country that founded the european union and to one of the largest economies in the eurozone. (applause) i would like to thank it is in this spirit that i was happy to accept the invitation to close cooperation addressed to italy by the german chancellor and the president of the french republic and i have always stressed with them, since our first triangular meeting, that the contribution that italy intends to bring to that table is a contribution oriented towards the community method, which recognizes the priority of the european institutions and which intends to cultivate always all the possibilities to build bridges instead of separations with respect to those countries which are not yet in the eurozone and to those which had expressed the intention of never being part of the eurozone. i think it is important for the european union to be inclusive, not exclusive. mr president, in view of the specific theme of this part-session, 'economic crisis, growth and employment', i should like to dwell for a moment on what i consider to be the main risk at this stage of european life. the euro has been the most ambitious completion of the community's construction to date: we can allow anything, but we must not allow it to become a factor of disintegration and division among europeans. this risk is real and within our reach. i believe it and i hope it and we are committed to it. but i think we must make an equal effort to recover a united spirit of belonging to a single project. the eurozone crisis has created too much resentment, it has recreated too many stereotypes, it has divided europeans according to latitudes, it has divided europeans into central and peripheral states. all these classifications are to be rejected categorically. (applause) i would like to thank i am the representative of a state which is considered to be geographically peripheral and i have no objection to this geographical connotation; at the same time, i should like to point out that the central states - and italy too, from the point of view of responsibility, if we want to start with the two largest economies in the euro area, germany and france - were the cause of the crisis of the stability and growth pact and its limited credibility in 2003 when, with the complicity of italy, which was then chairing the ecofin council, those two countries preferred to exert their political influence on the other member states in order to, in essence, break the enforcement mechanism. this is a fact which is now recognized by the governments of both germany and france, so i am not saying anything unpleasant to my colleagues, the german chancellor and the president of the french republic. but it is a fact that a great blow to the credibility of budgetary discipline has come from the central point of the eurozone, which had a great historical merit in establishing and promoting that budgetary discipline. we cannot therefore forget that there is a responsibility for the centre, as well as for the periphery, because it is true that several peripheral states, including the one i represent here, have at some point - (applause) - allowed themselves to be too much drawn into budgetary indiscipline. but there are no good people and bad people in the european union, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. we must all feel partly responsible for what we have done in the past and, above all, for building the future. (applause) in the end, we have spent eight difficult years in which the member states, the commission - first of all the commission, i am pleased to acknowledge and emphasize, that great institution which is the engine of european integration - and parliament - which has played an increasingly important role in recent years - have had to spend eight years to rebuild credibility for the stability and growth pact, and i want to pay tribute to the role that parliament has played in particular with the six pack, a construction which has introduced a credibility in the discipline even greater than that which the council had put in place. so when you think that, in the reality of this historical phase, parliaments are indisciplinary in relation to the executive - which is true sometimes at national level but i am pleased to say today that it is not true at european level - well, this parliament, thanks to its work, has become a disciplinary factor. (applause) now i do not think this is the time to put aside the moment of budgetary discipline, content that we have the fiscal compact and to move to another page of the european agenda, that of growth. i think we have to reconcile both of these aspects. and this is also true of the daily life of our countries. for example, yesterday, with my colleagues in the council of ministers in rome, i had to make a difficult and unpopular decision: the commission's proposal is to deny the italian state's financial guarantee to a magnificent project to bring the 2020 olympics to rome. there was a lot of disappointment in italy about this decision, especially in rome. but we have argued - and i have the impression that italian public opinion has understood - that the essential imperative for italy today, in its own interest and in the interest of europe - and last week in the united states, i had the testimony in washington of how the stability of the eurozone is considered an essential good also for the world economy - is another and that therefore, at this moment, any gesture of postponement of possible burdens of uncertain quantification does not appear in line with the responsibility that we governors must assume - although too often avoided in the past in all countries - that is to avoid unloading burdens on the future and on future generations. i hope that there will be other occasions for major events in italy, as there have been many times in the past, where italy has been able to make its contribution to culture, sport and events at european level. but i think that these are also small examples that we must offer to show that budgetary discipline is not a recent acquisition that we want to get rid of as soon as possible, but is a new way of living civic life. (applause) mr president, italy is bringing the voice of growth to the european council table with increasing intensity, precisely because it feels that its conscience is right because it is doing everything necessary for budgetary discipline internally. the european council of 30 january, which will be followed by the one on 1 march, has much to say and even more to do about growth. i know how much this parliament interprets the imperative of growth in its daily work, in its major motions, as well as in its timely decisions on individual projects. italy has asked and obtained, for example, in the european council, that growth be given greater priority among the objectives of economic policy than in the recent past. this is perfectly possible without questioning the discipline: just get out of certain common places. for example, the single market - the first building block of european integration - still has much to say and much to give to european economic growth. commissioner barnier has been the main protagonist of the commission's most recent initiative, the single market act, which has enormous growth potential. in the european council, italy is fighting for words to be followed by deeds, in an accelerated way and so that the heads of government expose themselves personally with their visibility and give the maximum political prominence, to avoid the single market looking like a grey collection of endless directives and regulations. the single market is the body and, in some respects, the soul of european integration, and we have asked for it to be developed strongly. another example - and i repeat here something i said to the european council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but is not at least part of the same work needed to be done for the discipline of economic integration of the single market? (applause) i would like to thank why do we have to have, as we rightly do, serious and effective mechanisms with sanctions for budgetary discipline, and a member state which breaks the rules of the single market can persist in this breach for four or five years, until the commission has gone through all the stages of the procedure to get to the court of justice? it is these limitations of european integration that are responsible, among other things, for the poor functioning of the euro area itself as an optimal monetary area. it is very good that so much attention has been paid to monetary union and the budgetary discipline that must accompany it; it is a pity that we have not paid as much attention to economic union, which is the pillar on which monetary union rests. it is time we all paid more attention to this. as regards growth, mr president, i am going to conclude because i know that time is rightly rationed in this parliament much more than in any other place of public debate in europe, and here is another contribution you make to discipline, mr president. the stability bonds, on which this parliament has voted by a very large majority, are an instrument which i myself have promoted in other places without ever considering them as a possible source of budgetary indiscipline. they are an instrument for greater integration of financial markets which, if properly constructed along the lines of the commission's green paper and the report approved today by the european parliament, can actually help to make the action of financial markets more restrictive in relation to public budgets. this is just one example of the tools that can be put into practice, respecting the different sensitivities: if a large country feels that stability bonds should come a little later rather than a little earlier, this sensitivity must also be respected, provided that it is not said that it is dangerous to study them. i believe that one day the time will come - but in a little while - to reconsider whether the present treatment of the economic act of private, but also public, investment is the most appropriate today. it is good that the rule of a structurally correct balance is now introduced into our constitutions as a result of the fiscal compact. a little less good to call it a golden rule. this is an important discipline, but once, even in german economic culture, the golden rule was that there could be a state debt but only up to the limit of public investment; that is, debt can finance what is capital formation. (applause) one day europe, having completed the great transformation which, thanks in particular to germany, we have made in recent years towards a culture of discipline, will be able to afford, without evading or attenuating it, to look more coldly and calmly at such instruments for growth. the last point, mr president, which i have little time to elaborate on: i would like to refer to an article which appeared this morning in the french, italian and german press and which bears my signature along with that of mrs sylvie goulard. we need to reconcile this with integration, which we need in ever greater quantities, and democracy, which we certainly do not want to give up. how can democracy and integration be reconciled? well...i think it is deeply possible to reconcile democracy and integration. (applause) of course only a deeply superficial, insular culture... (applause)... might naively believe that integration means a super-state. (call of who elected you?) a vast majority in the italian parliament. mr president, i apologize if i am caught up in the passion for european integration, which is not a superstate at all but a continuing operation of the principle of subsidiarity and must be reconciled with democracy. it is clear what can happen if citizens in some member states feel that integration is being achieved at the expense of democracy. instead of trying to reinvent the wheel, as we say in italy, i think we should work on the existing institutions. there is in europe - i believe you have heard of it - an institution elected directly by the citizens by universal suffrage called the european parliament. this institution has a very significant impact on community life: i was part of a european commission which, a number of years ago, this parliament invited to come home. i can assure you that his control is quite vigorous! i think that by developing the european parliament's functions more and more, it will be possible to reconcile better the effectiveness of a body which is itself a fully-fledged community body but which is the expression of governments such as the council, and, under the commission's great impulse, to reconcile these bodies invented by the extraordinary french mind, jean monnet, so that integration and democracy are, as they should be, ever more in harmony with each other. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the italian council, mr mario monti, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced in this house that europe must both put its public finances on a sound footing and return to growth. that's what you just told us. i would like to say to you, mr mario monti, that the economic reforms you have undertaken in your country are exemplary on this two-pronged approach. on the one hand, you have continued many of the reforms initiated by the previous government - you also mentioned this. you have also made important changes, including the liberalization of certain professions. this is a good thing because it will create jobs and increase competition. with your proposal to introduce a kind of flexicurity, you will strengthen the social market economy, you will make the labour market more dynamic, more protective too. your fight against fraud and for a more transparent tax system is also just and will reduce the tax burden on the italian people. my group supports this package of measures which, i repeat, is an example for europe. i hope that many countries will follow your example, because to restore growth, it is necessary to restore a favourable political and economic climate. it is also necessary to give our fellow citizens hope again, not false hope, which would be quickly disappointed because it is based on reality, but hope based on the development of a more competitive economy and on the necessary reforms of our collective way of life. the italian economy, like that of most european countries, is strong because it is built on a real economy, on competitive sectors with great potential. mr monti, you have begun to optimise this potential, to free the economy from the burdens that were weighing it down. we must do the same in all our countries and follow the example of those who do it better. we must promote, through national but also european policies, as you said, resources which are underutilized. we must in particular enable our smes, our researchers, but also the millions of europeans, and especially the young unemployed, to develop their potential. and this policy requires a spirit of responsibility, the same, dear mario monti, that you show at the head of your government. the temptation is great for some to confuse public spending with investment, as you have said, but it is only through investment that we will achieve sustainable growth. the former president of the commission, jacques delors, used to say that you do not fall in love with the internal market. but the day after valentine's day, you don't fall in love with european competitiveness either. however, mr monti, in your report on the relaunch of the european area you have set out the right paths for the renewal of growth and jobs. i am talking about greater tax coordination between the member states. i am talking about a new breath of political and social support for the integration of the european market. i am talking about the internal market, which, almost 20 years after its launch in 1993, is still not complete. you called him back. mr president, as much as everyone knows how much i support the franco-german engine, i would also like other countries, like italy, to make their views, proposals and even counter-proposals known. i would also like to take this opportunity to commend you for your strong commitment to the community method and european integration. like the european parliament, mr monti, you know that a return to the intergovernmental method would be a grave mistake, a step backwards for the 500 million europeans. i appreciate you putting your weight on it. continue to oppose this intergovernmental method. you have the majority of this parliament with you. this parliament wants to make another voice heard, that of a europe of solidarity and responsibility, that of an integrated and political europe. we know that you are an ally.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that once again this debate is an attempt to cover up the absurd and odious religion that is leading europe into chaos: austerity for the people. you didn't say that word, mr. monti. you spoke of discipline, but discipline is still for the people, not for the financiers, as in greece and other countries. but austerity is a deadly poison. it does not balance public accounts or stimulate the economy, because it sacrifices wages, social protection, work and human welfare. you have spoken at length about democracy, but what kind of democracy is this when you yourself, mr monti, are destroying the italian labour code? what democracy is there when the euro plus pact calls for no more negotiating agreements by sector? what kind of democracy is it when a troika of unelected people run some countries? what democracy is there when the only words in future treaties are: discipline, surveillance, sanctions, prosecution before the court of justice for those who do not meet the 'austerity' standard? what democracy? the treaties that are being drawn up today are not about growth and employment. on behalf of the group of the european united left, we put to you a few proposals for this growth and employment: the introduction of a european minimum wage and a minimum income, as voted by this parliament; the defence of public social security by the invention of a system of occupational social security for work in europe; the end of social and fiscal dumping; the taxation of capital at the same level as labour; a real tax on financial transactions; a european alliance against unequal free trade with the introduction of visas, border protection in line with social and environmental progress; the commission has also proposed a programme of major works and the launching of a new industrial and agricultural policy; the development of research, innovation and education. this could be achieved by creating a fund for human, social and ecological development, in place of the european stability mechanism, in conjunction with the european central bank, which should be able to buy all or part of the debts of the states which are currently in difficulty and grant credits at 1% directly to the states. and do not tell me, mr president-in-office, that the treaties forbid you to do so, since you are changing them against the backs of the peoples and against the peoples, and therefore against democracy!
mr president-in-office, many people welcome your swift action, a plan of rigour capable of meeting all the requirements of your compatriot and former colleague from goldman sachs, mr draghi, now president of the european central bank; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we commend you on your courage. but is there really any courage, mr president-in-office, when, having been appointed to this post, you know that you will continue to exercise responsibilities as in the past, without ever having to stand for election by those you govern? it is not a personal insult to say that your democratic anointing is rather limited. you have been softened up by the occult and globalist circles of the trilateral commission, the bilderberg group. it's a bit like democratic legitimacy, even if you have a parliamentary majority. you have also painted a picture of an integrated europe, but with respect for subsidiarity. but, mr president-in-office, my colleagues have answered your question. mr swoboda, who is austrian, and mr verhofstadt, who is flemish, for the liberal group, answered you in english, although there are interpreters here. they have disdained, except for a brief effort by mr verhofstadt, their national language. it is the language of big brother that they used, not the language of the british patriots who are standing by me.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i do believe that we are no longer talking about repression or oppressed people, but about the intolerable terror of the bashar al-assad regime. we have to look at how public hospitals are now being turned into centres of torture, execution, kidnapping, and in the face of this, i will not here list the considerable number of wounded, the number of missing, the number of prisoners, the number of dead. the un human rights council has said that these are crimes against humanity. mrs de keyser is right, assad will have to answer for his crimes before the international criminal court. in the face of this terror, i really want to salute, of course, the courage, the determination but also the incredible capacity for resistance by the civil society organization in syria. because, despite everything, food is coming, despite everything, information is being exchanged, despite everything, protections are being provided for the people who are demonstrating. nevertheless, care is provided in rooms converted into emergency hospital. i believe that these channels that are being set up are precarious and dangerous. we should think and work to see how, already, we can intensify the movement of goods, of care, of food, of protection through these informal channels, how we can secure it, strengthen it and expand it, how we can protect the people who, at the risk of their lives, move these goods. i believe that this is the first concrete action that they are asking us to take. the sanctions must of course be strengthened and, above all, we must ensure that they are properly implemented. i really think that the european commission and the council should ask themselves how a ship full of weapons could have left a cypriot port to go to syria to supply bashar al-assad with weapons of war that he is deploying against his own people. there is the arab league initiative. of course, we must support it, but we must also be vigilant. we know that the arab league represents a set of extremely divergent interests. we know that initiatives are being taken here before iraq assumes the presidency of the arab league. all this is well known, but in view of the situation, the european union must define its strategy very clearly and be able to say so on 24th in tunis. it is very good that this meeting is taking place in tunis, because it is an important thing, it illustrates that this story is first of all that of a people facing its oppressor. we consider syria as a piece on a complicated chessboard and if we move this piece, how will the moves play out behind it? we must return to the basis of the conflict, of this struggle, to support the people. the story that is playing out in syria today is really that of a society fighting for democracy and rights. we must not be naive to see this as the main issue and the one to which all our efforts must be directed. the meeting on 24 february must therefore be an opportunity to isolate or integrate those countries which today continue to support the syrian regime. of course, there's china and russia, but there's also algeria. we must put maximum pressure on assad to be isolated. it's a practical way to help. the national council must also be recognised. it has its flaws but we need to have a political dialogue with this national council to help it become the political interlocutor of the future of syria.
madam president, we cannot remain indifferent or silent to the tragic situation facing the syrian people under the bloodthirsty regime of bashar al-assad. let's not abandon the syrian people! first, let us strongly affirm our support and solidarity with the suffering syrian people. what strategy to build? what can we do? first, denounce the veto of the russian and chinese governments at the un, demand that ngos and journalists be allowed to circulate on syrian territory. then support the people by supplying medicines and medical equipment that are lacking, knowing that even the country hospitals are under attack. medicine cannot be used as a weapon of war. it is also important to help set up a humanitarian corridor. finally, we must recognize and support the syrian opposition around the syrian national council, to enable them to rebuild a state that meets the aspirations of the syrian people. and we must send assad and those responsible for crimes against humanity to the icc.
mr president, the situation in syria is the most serious and painful challenge facing the international community at the moment. we cannot tolerate the heavy bombing of its own people, the imprisonment and torture of civilians, including children, and these are the manifestations of the blindness of a criminal regime. it is easy to get angry and denounce, it is more difficult to act, and to act effectively. if we exclude, and i think we are right to do so, the possibility of military intervention as in libya, then our means of action are, it must be admitted, very limited. but there are ways of contributing to the further isolation of this regime, which president brok has rightly pointed out is probably the most realistic way. first, the sanctions, which the eu has been at the forefront of. they must be strengthened as much as possible and they are an interesting means of action. on the diplomatic front, which is an essential dimension, we must first of all condemn the russian and chinese veto, without appeal, and above all we must lead these two countries to realize that this veto is not only unacceptable, but it is incomprehensible and above all without any way out for these countries themselves. the arab league is taking initiatives, it is playing a major role, which is welcome and should be strengthened and strengthened, even if not all the options it presents are feasible in the short term. these initiatives have the immense merit of being in existence and being very widely supported by responsible countries. beyond this political imperative to increase maximum pressure on the syrian regime and those who support it, like iran, like russia, there is also a humanitarian emergency. the demand for immediate and unconditional access to victims does not require a un resolution, it is an absolute moral duty. the eu and its member states must do everything in their power to advance the arab league's initiatives and put an end to the scandal of this age-old repression.
in writing. "bashar al-assad will fall". this is the first time that the president has been in power since the beginning of the crisis. these were the words spoken by our minister, mr alain juppé, in the european parliament on wednesday 15 february. these are words full of hope and meaning: france, europe and the world are and will continue to support the syrian people. support, yes, but save most of all. in the past 10 days, nearly 300 people have been killed in homs by government forces, bringing the death toll since the beginning of the insurgency to nearly 6,000. in the face of the extreme urgency of the situation, the arab league proposed a new plan on sunday: the dispatch of un peacekeepers. some member states consider the idea of western intervention to be dangerous; others see it as a first step towards ending violence. if the european union is to weigh up its actions, it must speak with one voice: that is the aim of the foreign affairs council on 27 february. in the meantime, the group of friends of the syrian people (initiated by president sarkozy) will meet in tunis on friday 24th; this is a strong signal to damascus, but also to moscow and beijing, which continue to block the un security council sanctions process.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we have chosen not to join the european parliament's joint resolution on this subject, not because we are in total disagreement on the substance, but because of its many shortcomings. a little too much "double standards" in our eyes beyond words. we have tabled amendments to illustrate these shortcomings, but i would like to stress one of them. i have just returned from turkey, from the kurdish part of turkey, and i would like to know how long we will continue to be silent about the deterioration of the democratic situation in that country, especially since 2009. more than 10 000 people have been taken into custody in one year; more than 5 000 people are in pre-trial detention in the kck case alone, including many elected officials and bdp activists who are constantly calling for a peaceful and political solution to the kurdish question, but also children as young as twelve, lawyers, journalists and human rights defenders. i was there on monday. over 140 arrests, mostly unionists and artists. yesterday, it was over 180. this can't go on. the european union must stop being silent. mr. erdogan must stop his double talk. i very much hope that this matter will be raised in the human rights committee.
mr president, commissioner, the standards for the protection of personal data in third countries still differ considerably from european standards. it is our duty, however, to ensure that our european minimum standards of protection, which we are using, are respected and guaranteed to the european citizen. it is essential that personal data are processed fairly and collected for specified and legitimate purposes. european citizens must be guaranteed a right of access to and rectification of personal data concerning them and the right to bring legal proceedings in the event of a breach of their rights. action is needed to allow european and international standards to coexist and to resolve a legal conflict that could potentially harm european citizens. european legislation alone is not enough. it must be intelligently articulated and coexist with international standards, because we cannot escape our duties and commitments to the citizens of europe. this situation echoes other debates in this house. it reminds us of the relevance of projects such as the establishment of a european programme to monitor the financing of terrorism. such a system would allow us to have a tool which has proved its effectiveness in the united states while fully respecting domestic law and therefore the protection of personal data of european citizens. the european institutions must continue to be committed to this and fully assume their own standards of protection.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i agree with the speakers: it is high time that we say to the rest of the world, to our partners, that we are a continent of 500 million citizens who must be respected, and that the laws which we have decided together with this house have to be applied on the territory of the european union. you might have seen that the commissioner who is speaking to you has been very explicit on this: saying that the high guarantees which are our values, which are in our european laws, must not be eliminated in relations with third countries. this is why we already have laws in place, and we are going to improve and strengthen them with the guarantees which the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights give to our citizens. we will make our european laws –which have to be respected by third countries on our territory – stronger. this is exactly the reason why i have tabled before this house a reform of the 1995 data protection rules and why i have said very clearly – and you can see what is going on in other territories at the moment in the political discussions – that those laws which we make here will become a world standard. that is what we want to achieve in the future. for the time being, i have been very clear on the fact that the data protection rules of 1995 are missing some elements, such as arrangements concerning infringements, which we have included in our reform. the monitoring of data protection law compliance is also left completely up to national authorities, who are not currently obliged to inform the public or the european commission. this should be changed, because the set of rules on data protection should in future be made on a continent-wide level in order to reinforce application. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, agreements which we have with third countries – colleagues have been speaking about swift and pnr – have to be agreed on by parliament. this has dramatically changed the way that third countries approach the european union. lessons have been learnt from the way in which questions on swift were dealt with. pnr is under discussion now and you know that the umbrella agreement which i negotiated with the united states will be on the table for this house to accept or to reject. in the acta agreement, which this house also has to decide upon, the internet freedom provision has been included in the final text of the legislation precisely because of the remarks made by this house, because we do have problems (in answer to the question from the member asking the fundamental question of tonight’s debate), because there is the problem of the conflict between two jurisdictions. this is a conflict of international law – and such issues of international law must be clarified by the court in the hague – but we have tried in our new legislation to clarify all these points. if you read recital 90 of the regulation you will see, and i quote, that: ‘the extraterritorial application of these laws, regulations and other legislative instruments may be in breach of international law and may impede the attainment of the protection of individuals guaranteed in the union by this regulation’. that is why transfers should only be allowed where the conditions of this regulation for the transfer to third counties are met. that is what we have to work on now, beyond the conflicts which will arise between partners, beyond the international agreements which we have to vote on in this house and beyond the implementation of our european legislation in the framework of international law. i therefore count on your support in the forthcoming legislative process on the data protection legal framework and on the umbrella framework, in order to clarify these points and in order to make it crystal clear that, on european territory, european law has to be applied.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased to be able to answer the question which your assembly and your rapporteur, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, are putting to the commission and to give you the opinion of my colleague, cecilia malmström, on this subject for which she is responsible. ladies and gentlemen, family reunification accounts for a large proportion of legal immigration into the european union. there is a trend of a decrease in this family grouping from half in the 2000s to a third today. the migrants covered by the directive i.e. third-country nationals who join a non-eu citizen account for 21% of all permits issued 500 000 persons for our 27 member states in 2010. i should like to briefly touch on the content of the green paper and the questions it raises on the scope of application, the conditions for the exercise of the right of association, in particular integration measures, and procedural problems. some questions also concern possible ways of combating fraud and marriages of convenience, and, in addition, the rules on expenses. in its 2008 report on the family reunification directive, the commission had already identified some implementation problems at national level, for example cases where visas are not issued under a simplified procedure to a person admitted as a family member. the commission also noted shortcomings in the directive where some of its provisions are too vague, for example as regards the possibility of applying certain conditions such as integration measures. member states called on the commission, both at the time of the 2008 pact on immigration and asylum and in the 2009 stockholm programme, to continue the development of this policy at eu level, with particular attention to integration. the tendency of some member states to apply stricter rules, due to what they claim are integration problems and certain abuses, has revived the debate. in view of all these elements, the commission considered that it would be useful to organise an open consultation at union level. the green paper is the most participatory approach. it provides an opportunity for all interested parties to engage, to make their views known. it also leaves us the choice as to whether to act further and how to act. as regards, ladies and gentlemen, your questions on human rights and fundamental rights, i would like to make three points on behalf of mrs malmström. firstly, the directive recognises the right to family reunification as a necessary means of enabling family life. secondly, as the court of justice has confirmed, the directive must be applied in compliance with the charter of fundamental rights and in conformity with that charter. this is particularly the case with regard to the right to respect for family life, the right to marry, the right to found a family and the right of the child to have a personal relationship with both parents. the court of justice has confirmed in another judgment that the optional conditions laid down in the directive - for example, the requirement that the applicant for family reunification have sufficient financial resources - must be applied restrictively in order not to impede the right to family reunification. finally, thirdly, the green paper invites interested parties to clarify whether safeguards should be introduced to ensure that integration measures and fees are not used as a means of limiting the right to family reunification. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to forced or fraudulent marriages, the green paper calls for more information to be provided to the commission so that it can tackle any problems in a more targeted manner. firstly, the commission is trying to establish in this green paper whether there is a link between forced marriages and the minimum age of the spouse, as some member states have claimed. it also asked for statistics on registered marriages of convenience and for information on how the provisions for checks and inspections could be made more effective. i would like to emphasize the open nature of this consultation. the commission will decide on the basis of its findings what action to take. there are several possibilities. interpretative guidelines are one possibility. this can be an effective instrument if accompanied by other tools, such as expert groups and in-depth dialogue with each member state. in addition to the green paper, the european migration network will complete a targeted study in the second quarter of 2012 to inform the consultation process and its follow-up. whatever the form of the follow-up measures, the commission will ensure the correct implementation of the current union rules on family reunification. if necessary, it will be prepared to initiate infringement proceedings.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2003 family reunification directive is an important milestone in the european union's migration policy. it recognises the right to family life of migrants legally established in the territory of the european union. it promotes integration by limiting family separations and by allowing them to have a stable and flourishing family life. it should be borne in mind, however, that family reunification continues to be a major source of legal migration. the european pact on immigration and asylum, adopted under the french presidency of the european union in 2008, reflects the need to structure and manage migration taking into account the reception capacities of the member states. it is a realistic and humane policy. the human rights of migrants legally residing in the european union must be respected and their integration promoted while preventing any abuse, taking into account our own limitations in terms of reception. in france, 29 400 residence permits were granted in 2010 to third-country nationals on the basis of family reunification. in italy, the number of licences was 160,200, while in finland, forty times fewer licences were issued in the same period. the conditions for granting family reunification differ considerably from one member state to another. despite all the efforts made, there is very little convergence in national family reunification policies. the european commission has already pointed out on several occasions that this is partly due to shortcomings or inadequacies in the transposition of the 2003 directive. consultation of civil society and relevant stakeholders is always appropriate, but above all it is important to ensure that existing law is respected and properly applied. if not, i would urge the european commission not to hesitate to be more reactive than it has been so far. the european commission presented its green paper. why this news, commissioner, and what are your other proposals?
i am glad that we are having a debate on family reunification today, on the eve of the consultation launched by the european commission. i regret, however, that our institution has not been able to contribute more concretely to this reflection in a more structured way and as other organisations or associations have done or will certainly do. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of discrimination. the first is that there is a need to update the approach followed so far by emphasizing first and foremost that what we need is to ensure respect for the right to family life. this should guide our thinking on the implementation of the directive, especially since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and, therefore, of the charter of fundamental rights, with the prospect of accession to the convention on human rights. the second point concerns the objective of the directive. the original aim was to promote the integration of migrants. but the directive has instead become a tool for managing immigration with an effect that can legitimately be considered counterproductive in terms of social integration. my question on this point is therefore whether we should not return more firmly to the first approach, that of integration. finally, thirdly, i think the commission should be more aggressive and, let us be clear, should initiate infringement procedures against a number of member states which do not apply these rules properly. as has been seen in several member states, the adoption of increasingly restrictive measures has had the effect of reducing the number of migrants moving to europe for family reunification. i therefore ask the commission to be very vigilant in its treatment of the green paper's findings.
member of the commission. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr menéndez del valle and mr moreira for this report and for this question, to which i wish to reply on behalf of my colleague, mr algirdas šemeta, who regrets that he cannot be here in person to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, of the commission's full commitment to the progressive establishment of a genuine euromed free trade area and the social and economic integration of our partners in the southern mediterranean. you have asked several questions, mr menéndez del valle and mr moreira, to which i would like to reply specifically on behalf of mr šemeta. firstly, the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin is one of the first concrete responses to the historic and positive events that have recently occurred in many of our southern mediterranean neighbours. this convention is important for several reasons. first, it will promote trade between the european union and its southern mediterranean neighbours. it will therefore strengthen their economic integration. it will then pave the way for the simplification of the rules of origin and their adaptation to the new economic situation in the region. it will also allow the integration of other european neighbours, notably the western balkan countries, into the pan-euro-mediterranean area by providing them with new opportunities within an expanded trade area. since i am speaking of the economic integration of this region and its association with the european union, i express my concern as commissioner for the internal market and the idea that one of the ways in which this region can open up to democracy and the world is that these countries on the other side of the mediterranean should first of all succeed in establishing a common market among themselves. i was listening the other day to the new tunisian president advocating the creation of such a market, which would facilitate trade, communications, lower borders and remove barriers between countries, particularly those in the arab maghreb. but we also have the tools, as i said, to move towards an organized free trade area between them and us, beyond the mediterranean. a second question you have asked: although there is no dispute settlement mechanism in the convention, there is one in article 33 of appendix 1 to the convention, which is quite logical, since the disputes which may arise between partner countries will concern essentially bilateral issues relating to the verification of proofs of origin. the text of this appendix will be legally binding, ladies and gentlemen, and it will replace the protocols on rules of origin, which are currently annexed to the bilateral free trade agreements between partners in the pan-euro-mediterranean area. thus, all free trade agreements concluded between these partners will refer to the same rules of origin and thus to identical provisions on dispute settlement. thirdly, the convention and its annexes can be revised at any time. for example, after several years of implementation and in the light of experience gained, amending decisions may be adopted by the joint committee, as specifically stipulated in article 4 of the convention. i quote: 'the joint committee shall adopt by decision the amendments to be made to this convention, including the amendments to the appendices'. so we are not in a totally static procedure that will never move. in the light of experience, and you have mentioned a number of problems, there are possible developments. this mechanism will be developed in the rules of procedure of the joint committee established by the convention. fourthly, i would like to assure you, mr menendez and mr moreira, on behalf of mr šemeta, that the commission is closely monitoring the implementation of the technical arrangement between the european union and the state of israel and is taking the necessary measures to improve its functioning, if necessary. the notice to importers on imports from israel is currently undergoing a very detailed examination with this objective. the commission services are currently examining, in close cooperation with the customs authorities of all member states, the possibility of making the list of settlements public and of issuing an amended version of the notice to importers. the objective of such a measure would be to oblige importers to verify themselves the postal codes appearing on the proofs of origin established in israel which they intend to submit to the customs authorities of the member states of the union. i believe that this should lead to improved controls, since the burden of checks will in future be shared between importers and customs authorities. to ensure that no settlement product is unduly favoured in the eu through cumulation with partners with a free trade agreement with israel, the commission considers that the best approach is to invite these partners to negotiate with israel similar or identical arrangements to those negotiated by the eu. finally, i want to say quite frankly that the commission is satisfied with the way the technical arrangement is working. therefore, the commission does not consider it necessary to amend its legal status at this stage. these are the answers mr šemeta wanted to give to the four questions you kindly put to the commission.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleagues, mr menéndez del valle and mr moreira, for their cooperation on this important matter. as you said, commissioner, this convention is an important milestone. this is the first concrete implementation of the communication 'partnership for democracy and shared prosperity' of march 2011. i therefore hope that it will be ratified as soon as possible after our vote, especially since it is already in force in some other countries in the area and the european union had vowed to be the first to do so. i would like to draw your attention to a few points. firstly, the problem of products from the occupied territories, which calls for greater vigilance on the part of the customs authorities. secondly, economic operators have difficulty in knowing, understanding and using the system of rules of origin. a solution could be provided by more communication and technical support. i take the example of the export desk created in 2004. it is a useful tool for exporters in third countries, but it is very little known. i also noticed that the original rules guide is only translated into english while the rest of the site is translated into arabic. it is a small detail, but given the complexity of these rules, i think users will appreciate having a guide in their own language. another point on the rules of origin: our committee is currently examining an own-initiative report on the trade and investment strategy in the mediterranean. one of the rapporteur's proposals is to bring the rules of origin of the generalised system of preferences closer to those of the pan-euro-med convention. it would be useful to have the opinion of the directorates-general for trade and taxation on this point. is that even possible? is that a good solution? finally, i call on the commission to pursue at the same pace the other reforms announced last year in the march communication. any delay could be interpreted as a negative signal by all the neighbouring countries.
in writing. the objectives of this regional convention - replacing more than 100 bilateral texts with one, integrating the western balkan countries into the pan-euro-mediterranean system of rules of origin and facilitating trade between member countries - contribute to the economic integration of the euro-mediterranean region, which has been one of the main objectives of the eu's euro-mediterranean policy since the barcelona process. the conclusion of the agreement has been the desire of our partners in the southern and eastern mediterranean for several years. after the talk that accompanied the arab revolutions, it is time to act. the adoption of this convention will enable the eu to send a first concrete message of commercial openness to the countries of the southern mediterranean, which are finally opening up to democracy. but it will not be enough on its own to bring about the change we expect in the eu's trade relations with the southern mediterranean. we must therefore continue our efforts to support the development of south-south trade, improve customs cooperation, modernise the rules of origin themselves and, more generally, review the eu's trade policy towards our mediterranean partners to take better account of their interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to join my colleague mr glante in his earlier remarks. but it is true that we have not found common ground on the future of gmes today. the stakes are much higher than gmes. it is a real ambition to ensure our growth, far beyond the aspects mentioned by my colleague mr glante, whether technological aspects or environmental aspects. it is also a europe of projects which we are so much calling for and which commissioner barnier has so much promoted, including during the european elections campaign. by excluding gmes from the multiannual financial framework and delaying the adoption of a new regulation on its implementation after 2014, the commission casts doubt on the future of this programme. more importantly, it casts serious doubt on his ability to finally take on extremely ambitious projects. i say to mr barroso - excuse me, commissioner barnier - for once, let him show a little courage and initiative, especially on this project! i think that during his term of office he has very rarely shown courage and initiative, and i say this very clearly. i would like to see a clearer definition of the concept of 'competitiveness' and the concept of 'employability'. right now, we really need it. as you know, we in the european parliament are very much involved. we signed a letter in september to mr barroso. we have adopted the report on the european union's space strategy, referred to earlier by mr glante, which very clearly asked you not to give up gmes funding. today, with this oral question, with this resolution, we are doing it again. let mr barroso hear our message, let him hear the messages of the directly elected representatives of the european citizens. the european union should not abandon to the states a project which it itself initiated and which it has so far financed. in conclusion, i agree with all the requests made earlier by my colleague mr glante.
mr president, on 29 june the european commission published this unacceptable proposal to finance the gmes programme outside the multiannual financial framework. eight months have passed, eight months in which the member states and the european parliament have come forward to express their firm opposition and to ask the commission to return to reason on this matter. is it still necessary - as many of you have already done - to remind people that gmes will impact the daily lives of our citizens by providing them with essential services? that is why we are all fighting for it and against the commission's proposal. this financial disengagement is hardly understandable to all the actors, whereas you yourself, mr commissioner, have acknowledged the exemplary nature of this flagship programme. at present, if we want to sum up the commission's position, it is: 'if you want to see this programme survive, finance it yourself'. the commission must now open its eyes to the reality of the crisis. we cannot ask our countries and our citizens once again to provide new financing. commissioner, on behalf of the commission, could you explain to us today why the union is so disengaged from these programmes where there is real european added value? i do not want to go into a technical approach, but could the commission explain to our fellow citizens why it wishes to exclude the european parliament from this programme, thus excluding any democratic control? i would ask you today to express a clear, strong and reasoned position. we cannot keep this sword of damocles on the future of the programme, it is the whole of the players in this market who are holding their breath. the current dialogue of the deaf is likely to paralyse the market, which involves many small and mediumsized enterprises in our territories. with gmes, the aim is to make the union independent and to preserve the technological advantage that our companies have been working for for years. i hope that the commission will soon make a legislative proposal to include gmes in the next european budget forecasts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gmes programme is a unique programme in the world, a symbol of a europe of industrial cooperation projects, one which speaks to our fellow citizens. gmes is innovation, it is employment, it is industry and industrial policy. these are words that should be a challenge to us in this time of crisis. however, the european commission's proposal to take this programme out of the union's financial framework directly threatens it. and the launch of the sentinel satellites planned for 2013 cannot be guaranteed in the current state of affairs if there is no visibility on the funding that will allow the satellites to operate once in orbit. the interruption of this programme and the delays it would entail would inevitably lead to substantial industrial and budgetary over-cost. the continuity of such an industrial programme is essential to contain costs and increase efficiency. while we are trying to cut our spending today, this change in programme is likely to blow it up. in these troubled economic times, many subcontractors cannot afford to invest in the absence of predictability. gmes must therefore be consolidated and must, to do so, benefit from the sustainability and continuity of the european budgetary framework. in this sense, together with my colleagues in parliament, we ask you to review this proposal so that gmes becomes the symbol of industrial and space policy in europe.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not be long. i simply want to say that the report on the free trade agreement bears my name, and since there was a vote in the committee on international trade in favour of the agreement, the report continues to bear my name until now, and i call for a vote against this report. those who are against this agreement must vote no, not yes. i just wanted to make that clear.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in view of the result, i support the majority and of course withdraw my name. in any case, i want to thank all the members of this house who took part in the debate because it is very important that we have had a debate on international trade for the first time. we must continue in this direction. i hope the commission will take account of the discussions that have taken place.
in writing. how to vote against a report whose aim is to guarantee the repayment of a deposit to the amount of eur 100 000 in a short time in the event of a bank's failure, with all banks being required to be affiliated to a deposit guarantee scheme. the big question, however, is: what is the point of this when, in a country like france, we know that private deposits amount to some 1 600 billion euros and that the guarantee fund is barely reaching 2 billion. the idea is that an average deposit of 24 000 euros per head can be covered by a guarantee of 33 euros per head! this simply means that in the event of a major bank going bankrupt, it is doubtful that any guarantee will work without the imperative appeal, once again, to the state, that is to say the taxpayer! when you're "too big to fail", you can always do anything. the intention is commendable, but in the event of a disaster, the effectiveness is questionable. the sole purpose of such a text is to maintain the confidence of depositors, which is the very condition of the banking profession.
in writing. this report contains some progress. but he proposes to relax the deposit guarantee rules put forward by the commission. on the contrary, they should be strengthened to increase the financial contribution of banks to the security of the financial system. the commission and the econ committee's amendments do not propose that bank shareholders should be involved in the event of bank failure or difficulties that could threaten depositors. this contribution is necessary. it should be part of a global overhaul of the financial system. in particular, the retail and market activities of banks need to be separated in order to reorient the credit system towards the economy and employment and to reduce financial risks. i cannot vote for a report which is so unambitious for the safety of bank users.
in writing. in the face of the crisis, we must show responsibility. that is why i voted in favour of the vaughan report which calls for a freeze on the administrative expenditure of the european institutions.
in writing. budgetary restrictions are necessary in times of crisis, the rigorousness is everywhere in europe, we cannot ask the states to make considerable efforts without doing so ourselves! the vaughan report rightly calls for a freeze on the european parliament's expenditure for 2013. we all know that this is necessary, but we must also take the necessary measures. but let us not forget that croatia's accession may increase eu spending... we will then have to be even more proactive than we are today and make the necessary budgetary adjustments for future expenditure. it is only natural that, in solidarity with the citizens of europe, we should freeze travel expenses and individual allowances until 2014. in parallel with these measures relating to our individual expenditure, the report recommends that we identify long-term savings opportunities in order to keep expenditure within the budgetary limits we have set ourselves. it is crucial to identify budget lines that overlap or lack efficiency in their action. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. in these times of crisis, strict budgetary discipline is required of the greatest number and the european parliament must not deviate from the rule. a freeze of parliament's operating budget for 2013 has therefore been decided. in concrete terms, the staff budget and the budget for travel of members will be identical in real terms to that of 2012 and the individual allowances of members will not change until the end of the parliamentary term. to identify other possibilities for savings, parliament's budget will soon be the subject of an independent evaluation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this austerity budget because it is important that the european institutions contribute, in these times of economic crisis, to the effort of budgetary discipline initiated by the member states.
in writing. the european institutions are all the more costly because they are harmful and generate unnecessary or excessive expenditure in an attempt to justify their existence, to increase their own powers or visibility. in this context, the candle-lit savings and hypocritical calls for moderation in budget increases contained in the report and addressed to all the institutions except the commission appear hypocritical and ridiculous, especially when we know that the european union, paradoxically, employs fewer civil servants than the city of paris alone, and that members have systematically opposed, often in an opaque way, the reduction of their own standard of living! we are eagerly awaiting the report on the commission's budget, its management and its policies, to see whether this assembly will dare, for once, to cut back on unnecessary expenditure, advertising or patronage.
in writing. as in 2012, the european parliament is embarking on a period of budgetary austerity: we have voted this week to freeze the budget of our parliament for 2013. indeed, as the eu is going through a period of unprecedented financial and budgetary austerity, it is essential that the european institutions show responsibility and participate in budgetary efforts. i voted in favour of this report and i welcome its adoption. we also ask for an independent evaluation of the european parliament's budget. in addition, our individual allowances for members will be frozen until the end of the parliamentary term, as will budget lines for travel and staff. in particular, i would like to point out that i voted against amendment no 2 in favour of a single seat for the european parliament because it is yet another attack on the seat of strasbourg. i strongly advocate its maintenance, not only for historical and symbolic reasons, but above all in the name of the principle of diversity of the european union. this is above all a political question concerning the independence of parliament: the choice of strasbourg reflects a desire for a decentralized europe, not one "concentrated" in a single seat of power in brussels.
in writing. parliament was due to vote on its operating budget for 2013 on thursday 16 february. the budget did not raise any major difficulties, except for the introduction of an amendment calling for the european parliament to have only one seat. i am very sorry that this amendment was adopted, and that has opened the way to an internal battle between those who support and those who oppose the siege of strasbourg. for the sake of convenience, some of the work is being done in brussels, but let us not forget that strasbourg is the only official seat of the european parliament, the symbol of the rapprochement between france and germany, the symbol of the european unity desired by the founding fathers. today, some members of parliament declared open war in strasbourg. however, a report by the european association of young entrepreneurs presented on 14 february overturns the financial, institutional and environmental arguments put forward by critics. i therefore call on members to respect the letter of the treaties, because if we are to pursue the logic to the end, why not make strasbourg the sole seat of the european parliament?
in writing. the adoption of guidelines by means of a resolution is the first step in the budgetary procedure. all the institutions except the commission are concerned. the parliament's budget is the largest of the other institutions. the second stage will be the vote in march on a resolution with concrete estimates. in this crisis and in the face of the need to reduce our public expenditure, i supported the adoption of these guidelines which provide that, like the commission's administrative budget, the budget of the european parliament and the other institutions should be frozen, that is to say simply indexed to inflation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the 2013 budget. while i support the freezing of our institution's budget for 2013, i voted against the amendment which targets the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. two days earlier a report was presented which substantially corrected the erroneous but very often heard figures, raising the cost of the strasbourg seat from 169 to 203 million euros per year. the reality is quite different, according to the parliament's secretariat-general, the total specific costs of strasbourg are €51.5 million, or €10 cents per citizen per year. similarly, the estimated carbon footprint of 19 000 tonnes of co2 is four times higher than the actual figure of 4 199 tonnes. i note that my colleagues are not disarming on the subject of the siege of strasbourg and that this is a matter of politics rather than really budgetary or environmental issues. i think that if the european parliament is to have a single seat, it must of course be in strasbourg.
in writing. i fully support the motion for a resolution tabled by mrs maria do céu patrão neves which highlights the multifunctional nature of the fisheries sector. i have always fought for the cfp not to be conditioned solely by environmental concerns. because it gives life and structure to many territories, fishing is a key element in the production of public goods. it is the expression of know-how and culture and offers many opportunities, in particular to strengthen scientific knowledge and to ensure the development of coastal areas. it also has a structuring effect on the development of maritime areas. that is why i am in favour of the development of the public goods provided by fishing.
in writing. the fisheries and aquaculture sector generates €34.2 billion a year and employs more than 350 000 people in europe. environmental sustainability - improving the level of fish stocks - is a prerequisite for the economic and social sustainability of the sector. the reform of the common fisheries policy must therefore ensure that stocks are fished in a sustainable way to ensure the sustainability of the sector and the future of coastal communities. it must be ambitious and include clear, prioritized, measurable objectives and a timetable.
in writing. the resolution on 'the contribution of the common fisheries policy to the production of public goods' is a missed opportunity for the european parliament to take a clear position on the common fisheries policy. there are some positive aspects, but this is still very theoretical. the resolution calls for the establishment of a sustainable fisheries sector, food and employment security and the maintenance of vibrant fishing communities. the resolution also calls for the preservation of marine biodiversity, which is itself a public good, and for the recognition of the seas - which cover more than two thirds of the surface of our planet - as a resource that plays a crucial role in the reproduction of other natural resources. the resolution is deliberately vague and imprecise, whereas there is no shortage of issues on the common fisheries policy. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. let us not be mistaken, what is happening in hungary today is serious from the point of view of public freedoms and fundamental rights. but in the current european political debate, everything is mixed: economic issues, and in particular the independence of the hungarian central bank, are mixed with the question of the independence of the judiciary and the problematic points of the new constitution with regard to respect for the constituent values of the union. the central bank is not the main topic for me! the public freedoms, the full and complete respect for democracy, are much more important! today we must consider the most appropriate way of countering the authoritarian drift of the hungarian regime: is it article 7 so often mentioned? i believe that we must at all costs support the democrats in hungary, citizens and politicians who are committed to democracy and its values: that must be our priority.
in writing. our group in the european parliament, the adle group, together with the european left and the greens, succeeded this week in getting our joint motion for a resolution adopted, strongly condemning the situation in hungary, despite the shameful opposition of the european right and the far right. our resolution expresses serious concerns about the exercise of democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human and social rights, the system of the balance of power and equality and non-discrimination in the country. this is a great victory for our parliament. our resolution makes explicit mention (this was the subject of paragraph 7, which i of course supported) of article 7 of the teu, which provides for a mechanism of sanctions against a member state when serious breaches of european principles are found to exist. until now, in the libe committee, the two main political families in the european parliament (the epp and the s&d) were opposed to it! the european parliament has therefore decided to refer the matter to its libe committee, in which i sit, which will be responsible for drawing up a report on hungary's compliance with european laws and principles, on freedom of the media, on judicial reforms and on the question of the hungarian central bank.
in writing. i supported this resolution, which is justified by the serious concerns raised by the state of democracy in hungary and the attacks on european values. on the eve of the scheduled deadline for the accelerated infringement procedures launched by the european commission, we send a strong message of solidarity to the hungarian people. we therefore ask the commission to verify that hungarian law is in line with the letter and spirit of the european treaties, particularly as regards the independence of the judiciary, respect for media pluralism and the protection of personal data. the committee on civil liberties should also be given the task of drawing up a report which could possibly make it possible to consider the initiation of the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty, a mechanism for sanctions in the event of a breach of the common values of the european union. the european commission must complete its task as guardian of the treaties; the hungarian government must follow the recommendations made to it to comply with european law. clearly, we cannot confine ourselves to mere measures of cosmetic adjustment.
in writing. this resolution has the merit of asking mr orban to respect the rules of democracy. it should go further and condemn the anti-democratic and anti-social coup d'état led by mr orban and his far-right party. but no conviction here. not a word about mr orban's outright abolishing the republic in hungary. nor a word about inscribing a reference to god in the constitution. nor is there any mention of workers' rights, which have been undermined by successive austerity plans. the reminder of the independence of the hungarian central bank, however, was not forgotten. the commission, which took so long to react, should also be appalled. i prefer this resolution to the one by the epp which shamefully supports mr orban. but i can't support her in any way. i would remind you that article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides that one third of the members of the european parliament may request that certain rights, including the right to vote, be suspended from a government which is violating democracy. the majority of the member states are clearly not concerned about this and prefer to reserve the suspension of voting rights to deficit countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on 'recent political events in hungary' drawn up following the adoption of key laws in hungary which threaten the independence of the judiciary, the hungarian central bank and the hungarian data protection authority. i believe that the european union is first and foremost a union of states which share common values, such as respect for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. this community of destiny cannot tolerate members who compromise these values. i also call on the government of viktor orbán to comply with the rules contained in the european treaties and to respect the recommendations of the european commission, which on 17 january launched an infringement procedure against hungary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the upcoming presidential elections in russia on 4 march 2012 and on the controversial results of the parliamentary elections on 4 december 2011. indeed, we wanted to denounce the lack of transparency and impartiality of the russian electoral system, prone to many frauds, a lack of media neutrality, and a lack of separation of party and state. the resolution therefore seeks to express the european union's concern about the situation of human rights and the rule of law in russia. we call on russia to hold free and democratic elections and to punish all forms of fraud and intimidation.
in writing. with the arbitrary exclusion of opposition candidates from the upcoming presidential election in russia, the putin-medvedev regime is once again demonstrating that it has little regard for political pluralism. it is essential that the russian electoral laws be reformed so that the people can finally participate in free elections. russian citizens took to the streets to express their desire to take control of the political destiny of their country. it's our duty to stand by them.
in writing. since the last parliamentary elections on 4 december 2011, europe has been paying close attention to russia. these elections did not fully comply with the standards of free and fair elections. the european parliament therefore calls on the russian authorities to reform the electoral laws in order to ensure free and fair presidential elections. the eu is also very concerned about the situation in russia with regard to respect for and protection of human rights. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because the stability, security and success of europe depend on cooperative and good neighbourly relations between the european union and russia, based on shared values such as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. as a member of the council of europe and the osce, the russian federation is a privileged partner of the eu. cooperation and good relations with our great neighbour to the east are essential to our stability and prosperity. the adoption of a strategic partnership aimed at establishing closer cooperation is being considered, since it would allow, among other things, for significant progress in political and commercial matters. but like any relationship of trust, the eu's relationship with the russian federation must be based on shared values. 2011 and its wind of democratization in the arab world reminded us how much we care about democratic principles and how important it is for europe to promote them. restrictions on the creation of new political parties (april 2011), lack of transparency in the parliamentary elections (december 2011) and refusal to register the candidacy of a number of opposition candidates for the presidential elections cannot be left unaddressed. the european parliament, in a resolution which i co-signed, therefore condemned these recent developments in the russian federation and encouraged president medvedev to implement the reforms he announced.
in writing. today more than ever morocco needs the support of the european union, not only in the current context of the arab spring, but also and above all because morocco is one of our closest partners. i had already voted to extend the existing agreement last december. this agreement was necessary because it allowed ten member states to fish in moroccan waters in exchange for financial compensation for the development of moroccan fisheries policy throughout moroccan territory. after a long and difficult process in committee and then in the house, the european parliament has finally reached a consensus, and i am delighted. we cannot and must not abandon a historic partner of the eu. we must now do everything we can to consolidate the partnership agreements with morocco and propose new ones on new bases in order to support the democratic process under way.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of this resolution. this positive vote is a vote that strengthens our trade ties with morocco. the vote is a reminder of the eu's commitment to supporting morocco's economic and political developments. this resolution underlines the importance of the agricultural agreement for both morocco and the eu. it recognises the qualities of our moroccan trading partner, while at the same time highlighting the concerns expressed by european producers, so that the commission can provide an adequate response. this resolution will make it possible to monitor the implementation of the agricultural agreement. i am confident that morocco, like the eu, will be able to respond to this.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain on the vote on this agreement. the text as presented to the european parliament is unbalanced. in substance, this agreement risks weakening the already exhausted fruit and vegetable sector, without sufficient guarantees having been provided to limit distortions of competition between producers on both sides of the mediterranean. this is why it is crucial that the eu embarks on genuine structural reforms to keep a euro-mediterranean agriculture active, notably in the framework of the future cap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission must change its method by introducing parliament's participation in the discussions upstream. the commission should have also undertaken an impact study on the economic, social and environmental consequences before concluding this agreement and not afterwards. but beyond its economic and commercial aspect, this agreement has a political and strategic dimension for the eu and morocco. this is a support to the stability of a partner that has succeeded in introducing important political reforms and pursuing the process of modernisation in a turbulent regional context.
in writing. the resolution explains that free trade is "an important part" of the response to the arab revolutions. the establishment of a large euro-mediterranean free trade area has been planned since 1995! the majority of this parliament, ensnared in its liberal dogmatism, once again supports european imperialism against the aspirations of the peoples of the mediterranean to live well. i am voting against this text.
in writing. in the aftermath of the arab spring, as morocco makes significant democratic progress, it is essential that the eu fully supports it. in this sense, it was important not to abandon the agreement on reciprocal agricultural liberalization after lengthy negotiations. however, this agreement, as presented to us, raises many questions. unfortunately, parliament had no choice but to accept or reject this agreement, without being able to amend it. the resolution was therefore necessary, and although i would have liked it to go further - i am thinking particularly of the producers in the south-west - i supported it. in this text we stress the importance of small farmers taking advantage of the agreement; we are asking the commission to assess the impact of the agreement on european producers - this should have been done beforehand - (i supported the amendment stressing the need to compensate for the negative impact they might have, but unfortunately it was rejected). calls on the commission to promote the equivalence of measures and controls between morocco and the union in the field of environmental and food safety standards; we call on morocco to improve its water management.
in writing. under the new powers conferred on the european parliament by the lisbon treaty, we can only approve or reject the conclusion of a trade agreement, which does not allow us to change our position. the resolution, on which we voted at the same time as the protocol to the agreement, has precisely this function: to show that despite this limited possibility, we are studying all the implications and consequences once implemented. this resolution is balanced and summarises the different views of the stakeholders. it also stressed the benefits to both parties of the new liberalization: it consolidated the position of european exporters on the moroccan market while maintaining the mechanisms for protecting the most sensitive european products. that is why i supported it in plenary.
in writing. this agreement between morocco and the eu is questionable in many respects. i can only regret that we have to vote on it even though the impact study has not yet been published... nevertheless, since a decision had to be made, i chose to vote in favour. this is not a vote against french, greek, italian or spanish producers, it is a vote for the moroccans and for the coherence of the development policy we are trying to pursue. even though the arab spring has completely changed the situation in the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, we must now support the development of morocco. the agreement is far from perfect, and free trade agreements as such pose many problems. but morocco is our neighbour and we cannot promote the economic and democratic development of these countries if we completely deny them access to our markets.
in writing. i am pleased to note that the majority of meps have chosen, as i have, to continue to support and strengthen the eu-morocco ties and to support the transition to democracy following the arab spring. i am one of those who believe that this agricultural agreement will help alleviate economic, migration, and security problems. parliament took account of the many concerns raised by producers in southern europe. so there are safeguards, which have been required to moderate the increase in quotas for certain products, such as tomatoes, strawberries or cucumbers. the agreement also sets seasonal quotas to combat distortions on the eu market and recalls that moroccan imports should meet european health standards. it therefore called for strict monitoring of the application of quotas and for increased checks to prevent any alleged fraud in the entry price system. the european parliament also called for an assessment of the impact on the incomes of european producers and farmers.
in writing. i have decided to approve this agreement which follows the spirit of the specific association agreement signed in 2000. it is important to remember that the european union is engaged in a process of rapprochement with the southern shore of the mediterranean. this agreement is therefore more broadly in line with the logic of dialogue, which can legitimately be expected to have a beneficial effect on the economic development and democratic development of morocco, which has implemented considerable reforms. this agreement is balanced and respects the principle of complementarity of production (no overlapping of production periods). it also provides for a consultation mechanism in the event of a significant increase in european imports of fruit and vegetables. as regards european fishery products, i would like to stress that this agreement increases the possibilities for exports to morocco. it is also a positive signal to morocco after the non-renewal, against my wishes, of the fisheries agreement we had with that country.
in writing. after the unfortunate vote against the fisheries partnership agreement in december, a positive vote in favour of the agreement on reciprocal liberalisation measures for agricultural and fishery products was more than necessary. the agreement is a balanced agreement, which takes account of the specific features of the european and moroccan markets and contributes to our mutual prosperity. it is an essential tool, in particular, for the integration of moroccan 'small farming' into international trade. morocco is a country that must be supported in its stability, as the eu has committed itself to do. voting in favour of the agreement is to act in this direction and to reaffirm the solidity of the commercial, economic and political ties which unite us with morocco.
in writing. i know what the eu-morocco agreement means for this country. symbolically, while the arab spring changed the landscape in the southern mediterranean. economically, because agriculture represents a very important part of morocco's development, and employs up to 75% of the workforce in rural areas. however, i did not approve this text for at least two reasons. in substance, this agreement risks weakening the already exhausted fruit and vegetables sector without providing sufficient guarantees to limit distortions of competition. it is no longer acceptable that the european parliament should not have a say in the content of liberalisation agreements. we must be involved in the negotiations with third countries from the outset. to amend the texts, to improve their content, taking into account their impact on european producers, and to raise the level of requirements on moroccan production. finally, it is not acceptable that this agreement should be presented even though the results of the impact study on the economic, social and environmental consequences are not known. this way of doing things by the commission cannot continue.
in writing. the reforms initiated by the king of morocco, which are allowing a smooth development of this country, should certainly be welcomed and cooperation with this great country encouraged. but certainly not at the cost of a free trade agreement on agricultural products, a step towards morocco's participation in the european internal market, a very questionable objective. such an agreement would be devastating not only for european producers but also for moroccans, especially those who live on family and subsistence farming, whose importance and crucial role in the food security and independence of nations cannot be stressed enough. a free trade agreement, however far-reaching, is certainly a win-win for the big multinational corporations and the global financiers. it is always a loss for the peoples and the workers, ruined here and enslaved there.
in writing. morocco is a privileged and priority partner for the european union in our trade and must continue to be so. morocco and the eu have made significant progress in the areas of political dialogue, institutional relations and exchanges of views on bilateral and international issues. in agriculture, as in other areas, we must, however, demand reciprocity in accordance with european health and environmental standards. however, morocco does not currently meet these standards for a number of agricultural products, such as tomatoes. the agreement would therefore be likely to affect french and european fruit and vegetable production, which would be in a difficult competitive situation. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the issues related to the agreement between the european union and morocco on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products have provoked strong reactions from our farmers, who fear that their activities will be undermined by unfair competition. i want to reassure them, the guarantees are there. in view of the sensitivity of this sector and morocco's offensive capacity, mechanisms for preserving the sector are in place. this includes the maintenance of quotas for the most sensitive products (tomatoes, cucumbers, strawberries, clementines, etc.) which will be subject to monthly management; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of fruit and vegetables is maintained. special provisions are also provided for tomatoes, a highly endangered product. the liberalisation granted by morocco also contributes to strengthening the position of european exporters on the moroccan market with immediate and almost total liberalisation of certain sectors. finally, this agreement seals a commitment made in 2008 when morocco obtained "advanced status". it reflects the eu's willingness to support the democratic and reform process in the country and to achieve a common economic area in the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eu-morocco agreement on reciprocal liberalisation measures for agricultural and fishery products. i welcome the endorsement of this agreement by the european parliament. firstly, it will make it possible to strengthen the position of european exporters on the moroccan market while maintaining the protection mechanisms (quotas, entry price regimes) of the most sensitive european sectors, and in particular french ones, in particular the fruit and vegetable sector. above all, this balanced agreement is a very important step in the deepening of economic and trade relations between the eu and morocco: it accompanies the moroccan rural development policy, while representing an opportunity for european exporters. finally, by this vote, the european parliament is affirming its support for the courageous process of political democratisation and economic modernisation in which morocco has embarked.
in writing. this resolution endorses the free trade agreement signed between morocco and the eu in november 2010. this agreement is another step in the establishment of the eu-morocco free trade area which i denounce. it is not profitable for moroccan farmers or for european farmers. the beneficiaries will once again be the major european agro-industry and distribution firms, winners on both fronts. the majority would have been better advised to follow the recommendations of the rapporteur, josé bové, who proposed rejecting the agreement. i am voting against this text and denouncing it.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving this protocol to the eu-morocco agreement as it represents a step forward in the union's policy towards the countries of the southern mediterranean, particularly in the context of the arab spring. it is an essential component of the convergence of values and economies towards a common euro-mediterranean economic area and should benefit all moroccan farmers. in addition, this protocol embodies the advanced status which morocco and the european union agreed to in principle in october 2008, and marks an important intermediate step before the launch of negotiations for a comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreement, currently under consideration. finally, it consolidates the position of european exporters on the moroccan market, while maintaining the mechanisms for protecting the most sensitive european products. so it is ultimately a protocol which will produce balanced effects for both sides, and that is why i supported it.
in writing. the passionate debate over the eu-morocco agreement prevents us from thinking with a cool head, even though the situation is extremely sensitive and complicated. i am aware of the strategic nature of this agreement, the importance of greater integration of our economies around the mediterranean basin, the safeguards and the safeguard clauses that the commission has tried to negotiate. i would also like to welcome the efforts made by the kingdom of morocco to improve its labour law, to meet certain environmental constraints and to accompany the profound change in its agriculture with the 'green morocco' plan. i would like to express my support for the political reforms in these times of great instability. however, the almost saturated situation of the european vegetable market, the situation of our farmers hit hard by the crisis and their fears of unfair competition, social dumping and environmental dumping do not allow me to vote for this agreement. for all these reasons i decided to abstain, because i wanted the commission to realise that free trade agreements cannot be made at the expense of the survival of our agriculture.
in writing. i consider the agreement on the liberalisation of agricultural and fisheries products to be a key element in relations between the european union and morocco, in particular because of the eu's clearly stated strategy of supporting the democratization process under way in some arab countries. the agreement provides for the gradual implementation of greater liberalization of trade in agricultural and fishery products. i would like to reassure french farmers, because this agreement preserves the mechanisms for protecting the most sensitive european and french sectors, in particular the fruit and vegetable sector. the entry price system for fruit and vegetables (and in particular for fresh tomatoes) is maintained, which is a decisive guarantee for french and european producers. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of the european parliament's approval of this agreement.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's ratification of the eu-morocco agreement on the liberalisation of agricultural products. this agreement is against the interests of farmers and small producers on both sides of the mediterranean, and will only benefit big business and the king of morocco himself, who owns more than 12 000 hectares of land. the gue/ngl has joined the greens and josé bové, who led the battle on this issue, in tabled ing an alternative resolution. we remind the house that after the arab spring the european union should no longer dare to impose unbalanced relations, guided only by the desire to impose its liberal model (which is proving more and more harmful every day) to the detriment of fundamental principles such as food sovereignty. this resolution gave us the opportunity to stress that this agreement should not apply to western sahara. the european commission replied that 'western sahara is considered by the united nations as a non-self-governing territory and morocco is the de facto administrative power'. such an answer is astounding. with such reasoning, it is as if international law is useless.
in writing. in order to respond swiftly to the unprecedented deterioration of the situation in syria, i supported and participated in the drafting of this resolution. i therefore voted in favour of this text which calls on the regime to put an end to the atrocities it has committed, to support the initiatives taken by the arab league to get out of the crisis and to strongly condemn the support given by russia and china to the syrian regime.
in writing. as the situation in syria continues to escalate, the european union must maintain its pressure on president bashar al-assad and continue its efforts to address russia and china who are blocking the draft security council resolution. russia must also stop its arms supplies to the syrian government. we call for support for all international initiatives, both of the arab league and of the international committee of the red cross. the member states must demand that syria immediately cease the intolerable attacks and repression against the civilian population. we cannot turn a blind eye to such an escalation of violence.
in writing. in mid-march, it will be a year since syrians took to the streets daily to protest against the regime and demand more democracy. it will also be a year since bashar al-assad, clinging to power and totally closed to the demands of his people, uses all the means at his disposal to crush the democratic aspirations of the syrians. according to united nations estimates, more than 5,000 syrians have been killed and tens of thousands are being held. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the brutal repression by the syrian authorities and the blockade of the un security council resolution on syria by russia and china. we hereby reaffirm the european parliament's full support for the syrian people and call for a political solution to end the violence as soon as possible.
in writing. today we are adopting our ninth text on syria. how many more will it take for the international community to take responsibility for the regime of bashar al-assad? because it is no longer the time for declarations of intent as the uprisings in the city of homs are being harshly suppressed by the regime. we therefore call on the international community to adopt tougher sanctions to maintain international pressure on the syrian regime. we also call for action to protect the syrian people who are still suffering from a bloody and unbearable repression. only through the mobilization and coordinated action of all relevant actors can we sustain the pressure to defeat the assad regime.
in writing. we vote against this resolution. we can only see the serious impasse in which syria finds itself. the plight of the syrian people under the regime of bashar al-assad and the brutal repression are terrible. we condemn this regime and its policies. but we must find another way than the one presented in this resolution. indeed, paragraphs 15 and 18 are part of the strategy recently defined by the arab league for sending a "force" to syria. the deployment of such a force without the agreement of all the actors, including the syrian authorities, is impossible without military intervention. the syrian government, like the democrats and progressives in that country, rejected this proposal. the european parliament would be committing itself to supporting a very dangerous political-military escalation if it adopted a more ambiguous formulation. we are back to the situation of a few weeks ago, when france had already proposed humanitarian corridors and turkey a no-fly zone. it is still the pressure for military intervention, implicit pressure and in language that masks the risks of an all-out civil war in the country and foreign occupation.
in writing. this text condemns in the strongest terms the brutal repression of the syrian people by the regime of bashar al-assad. he demands the immediate resignation of the regime. it calls for the opening of borders to humanitarian aid, human rights organisations and journalists. in that sense, i support it. but the text calls on mrs ashton to negotiate with turkey, the arab league and the syrian opposition on the modalities of setting up humanitarian corridors on the syrian-turkish border. the humanitarian corridors involve sending military forces to protect them. it is inconceivable that such negotiations should take place in any other framework than that of the un. this text is free from that obligation. binding clauses preventing the risk of military escalation must be clearly and explicitly guaranteed. nothing of the kind is required here. i am voting against this motion of censure.
in writing. according to the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, 1.5 million syrians need international food aid. the consequences of the repression affect the living conditions of nearly 3 million syrians. there are more than 5,400 dead and more than 15,000 refugees, mainly in turkey. in the face of the syrian people's revolt, the repression led by syrian president bashar al-assad continues without the international community being able to intervene because russia and china are preventing any action by the un security council. this intolerable situation must end, and i call on the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to do everything possible to ensure that a un security council resolution is adopted, in cooperation with russia and china. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria.
in writing. the european union, which has been a guarantor of the fundamental rights of its citizens for several decades, must build on its experience and continue to extend its fight to the rest of the world. to do this, it must assume its role as a global actor and seize the opportunities offered by multilateral organizations with one hand. in the field of human rights, the adoption of binding standards is the key to rapid progress and concrete improvement on the ground. however, international bodies do not always agree on procedures quickly enough. it is therefore imperative that the european union and its member states join forces in a specialised intergovernmental platform: the united nations human rights council. the institution, which will meet for the 19th time from 27 february to 23 march, shares our universal vision of human rights and puts on the agenda priority issues such as the current human rights situation in syria. the european parliament adopted this resolution to show its interest in the work of the united nations human rights council and its willingness to establish closer cooperation with this institution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the nineteenth session of the human rights council because i welcome the increased integration of human rights in the work of the united nations, as evidenced by the increasing number of interventions by the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in the security council. the question of respect for human rights must not be subordinated to political or commercial considerations but must be regarded as a central element of the european union's foreign policy. i would also like to stress that i voted in favour of keeping in this text the reference to the tangible and sustainable implementation of the un high commissioner's resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. "the hunger for books"... is the phrase used to describe the situation of many blind or dyslexic citizens who are prevented from reading. 95% of publications are never converted into 'accessible formats', such as braille, large print or audio recording. the petition initiated by the european union of the blind (eub) and the dyslexics association (eda) was followed by an oral question in plenary on wednesday 15 february and a resolution on thursday 16 february. in view of this appalling situation, i have spontaneously supported this resolution. if publishers do not publish enough books in special formats for blind and partially sighted people, we must be able to force book publishers to do so. the time for non-binding recommendations must be over in favour of our commitment to produce a legally binding text to re-establish this manifest discrimination against access to reading.
in writing. the resolution we have just adopted unanimously is a reminder of how difficult access to culture can be for blind people. literature is a perfect example of this. we must support all initiatives based on new technologies, particularly those aimed at making books more accessible to the blind. promoting the publication of books in braille with lower copyright costs would allow younger people to have books in their hands, to facilitate their learning of braille, but it is also necessary and above all to optimize the solutions offered by new technologies with digital books. why not also offer a discounted download card for the visually impaired, blind or illiterate? more than an international treaty, we need a genuine political will on the part of the member states to take measures to facilitate the production and exchange of braille and audiobooks.
in writing. only 5% of books are currently accessible to the visually impaired. indeed, 95% of all published works are never converted into accessible formats such as braille, large print or audio recording. the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is considering an international treaty to improve access to books for the blind and other visually impaired which would introduce a specific exception to copyright rules and increase the number of braille publications. but the commission and the council have consistently opposed a legally binding text, preferring recommendations on a voluntary basis. the european parliament would like to point out that it is the duty of the european union not to stigmatise a section of the population suffering from a particular disability. the states must therefore decide in favour of such a treaty.
in writing. less than 5% of books are now accessible to blind, visually impaired and reading disabled people in europe and less than 1% in the rest of the world, or what is called a real 'book famine' for these people who are deprived of their right to access culture. negotiations are currently under way within the world intellectual property organization to establish an international treaty on limitations and exceptions to copyright, in order to facilitate the cross-border circulation of books available in accessible formats, negotiations which are currently blocked. i therefore voted resolutely in favour of this resolution, which seeks to unblock the situation, in order to guarantee the fundamental right of access to culture for these people. copyright laws should not, in this specific case, constitute a discriminatory barrier to access to cultural products by such persons.
in writing. 95% of all published works are never converted into formats accessible to blind, visually impaired and dyslexic people. unfortunately, to date there is no international legal standard allowing a specific copyright exception for the transnational distribution of publications adapted to people living with a reading disability. that is why i voted for this resolution, so that the council and the commission can vote in favour of a legally binding international treaty to facilitate access to books for those affected by this shortage of books. this resolution follows a petition by the world blind union, the european blind union and the british institute of blind people.
in writing. parliament voted in favour of making books available to blind and partially sighted people. what could be more natural than to be able to read any book at any time. however, persons who are blind or visually impaired do not always have access to books in accessible formats (braille, large print, or audio). there is a legal constraint which prevents the transnational distribution of publications adapted to people with reading disabilities. the european parliament wanted to point out this inconsistency and called on the commission and the council to support any initiative by the world intellectual property organisation which would facilitate this public so that culture is truly accessible to all.
in writing. blind and partially sighted persons have limited access to books and other printed material. as many as 95% of publications are never converted to 'accessible formats', such as braille, large print or audio recording. i supported the adoption of this european parliament resolution calling on the council of the european union and the european commission to vote in favour of a world property organisation treaty providing for derogations from intellectual property law in order to enable blind and partially sighted people to no longer be discriminated against in access to culture.
in writing. the petition is an essential democratic tool which allows any european citizen to engage in direct dialogue with the politicians who represent him or her and to ask them questions on issues of concern to him or her. it is vital to take this into account and to react to it. in this case, the petition reminded us of the lack of measures to make books accessible to the blind and visually impaired. their disability must not condemn them to having access to only 5% of the books and publications, and thus limit their access to culture, training and openness. to this end, the draft international treaty to improve access to books for the blind and other visually impaired of the world intellectual property organization must be supported and ratified by the european union. on such an important subject, which affects the rights of many european citizens, a binding legal standard is essential to allow a specific copyright exception for the transnational distribution of publications adapted to the visually impaired.
in writing. the associations of the visually impaired confirm that at present, in the european union, the blind and visually impaired have very limited access to books and other printed publications. the number of titles available in adapted formats remains woefully inadequate, as 95% of publications are never converted to "accessible formats" - audiobooks, large type, or braille - for copyright reasons. however, restricting free access to publications has important cultural and social consequences. it also has a negative impact on the empowerment and independence of the visually impaired. since non-binding recommendations have not been sufficient (and if national exceptions exist, they stop at borders), it is time to consider exceptions or limitations to copyright in favour of the transnational distribution of publications adapted to people with reading disabilities. in this context, we must demand that the council and the commission vote in favour of a legally binding wipo (world intellectual property organization) treaty to facilitate trade in adapted works. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which is a strong signal in that direction.
in writing. within the european union, 95% of publications are not made accessible to the visually impaired (braille, audio format), mainly for copyright issues, an essential point of our community legislation. it is essential to remember that access to culture, education and participation in society are also rights to be guaranteed to european citizens, whether they have full visual capabilities or not. the world intellectual property organization (wipo), which is at the forefront of this field, is already considering an international treaty to facilitate access to books for the blind and visually impaired. europe is responding cautiously, if not frivolously, by issuing only non-binding recommendations. the resolution i supported in plenary calls on the council and the commission to vote in favour of the legally binding wipo draft treaty which would bring about a major improvement in the lives of blind people of all ages.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution. against the wishes of the council and the commission, the vast majority of meps voted in favour of a legally binding international treaty within the wipo framework establishing exceptions to copyright to allow wider access to culture and the written word for the blind, to broaden the cultural and creative media for the blind and to facilitate exchanges between countries, taking account of technological advances in this field. most books are never converted into a format accessible to the blind, mainly for copyright reasons. with this vote we are asking the union to adopt a clear strategy on this matter and to take action to put an end to discrimination against the blind. with this vote, we want to come to the side of our fellow citizens living with this disability and put an end to their "hunger for books".
in writing. it is essential that the countries of the southern mediterranean feel fully included in a euro-mediterranean economic area. the new convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin is a step in this direction. the 'preferential origin' system allows certain goods to benefit from reduced customs duties when they enter the european market. the convention will also harmonise more than 100 preferential rules of origin already contained in bilateral agreements between the eu and mediterranean countries. this single and simplified instrument will stimulate the development of south-south trade and thus contribute to economic growth, social integration and democratisation in the region.
in writing. this resolution rightly points to the problem of companies taking advantage of the eu-israel agreement to export products from the territories occupied by israel. it is concerned that the text may facilitate or encourage this type of practice which encourages the spirit of force majeure and contempt for conventionally given speech. it denounces the fact that the agreement does not provide for a dispute settlement mechanism. it also denounces the fact that the convention does not provide for revision or review. despite all this, its authors are in favour of the convention. that's not consistent! i therefore vote against this inconsistency, but i support the denunciations and the request to create a blacklist of israeli companies which deliberately violate the spirit of the eu provisions by abusing the export of products from the occupied territories.
in writing. the barcelona process, launched in 1995 and transformed into the union for the mediterranean under the french presidency of the european union in 2008, aims to create a common area of peace and stability between europe and the mediterranean countries surrounding it. on the economic front, this union must make it possible to establish a free trade area. it's been on standby for many years. the arab spring, supported by the european parliament, has shown the need to revive this objective, which the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin intends to address. i therefore voted in favour of the menéndez del valle report.
in writing. we have just approved the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. this convention is an important step forward because the simplifications it entails will have a positive impact on facilitating trade and the economic and social integration of the countries of the region. any measure to promote the development of relations between the countries of the region should be supported. hence the importance of facilitating the use of the system of cumulation of origin and ultimately strengthening north-south and south-south trade, and of extending the system of preferential rules of origin to other neighbourhood countries.
in writing. i supported the adoption of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin, which will strengthen north-south and south-south trade. i support the resolution tabled on the initiative of the rapporteur, mr menendez del valle, who points out that this convention is of major political importance in the current context of democratic transition on the southern shore of the mediterranean. i welcome the establishment of a pan-euro-mediterranean system of cumulation of origin which clarifies the rules in force until now and contributes to the achievement of the commission's objective of 'shared prosperity'. i hope that this convention will be implemented quickly so that we can start to move towards the countries with which we already have free trade agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin because it is a step towards the creation of a free trade area in the mediterranean, in line with the proposals made by the french head of state.
in writing. i am against the establishment of the euro-mediterranean free trade area envisaged by the barcelona process. the convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin, which we are here being asked to approve, is intended to speed up its implementation. it even allows for a wider geographical scope. moreover, the agreement does not guarantee the cessation of imports of products from the occupied territories and in so doing encourages the spirit of coup de force which prevails in the present government of israel. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament's position in support of the council conclusions on the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin in trade. the report points to a number of real problems in trade between the eu and the rest of the mediterranean, including the preferential treatment accorded to israel for selling products from the occupied territories. i do not think, however, that the text goes far enough in terms of equal treatment between all the partners. the difference in treatment with regard to palestine is still to be applied when it is decided to simply freeze the agreements. such a difference in treatment is intolerable for a european union which claims to give lessons to the whole world in the field of democracy and human rights. i would venture to add that even from a purely liberal point of view, it is not relevant, since according to their great principles, equality in trade should be the rule. they don't even respect the basics of their ideology, or more precisely, as always, we choose the rules according to the interests at stake.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of gmes because it sends a strong signal to the european commission: that of a european parliament which does not accept that it can exclude the gmes programme from the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. we also asked the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal for the long-term governance, financing and operation of the programme as soon as possible, in order to provide assurance about its future. this is not the time for the eu to renounce, by renouncing the states, a programme which it has itself initiated and hitherto financed.
in writing. the vote on this resolution is a further step in demonstrating the european parliament's firm opposition to the european commission's intention to exclude gmes from the eu budget. we cannot ask our states and our citizens to tighten their belts and then ask them to put their hands back in their pockets. by turning a deaf ear to our calls for action over the past few months, the commission is risking paralysing a whole section of the space industry which expects a clear and reasoned position from its representatives. it is here that the european commission is attacking the europe of projects. that's a very uncomfortable position to take.
in writing. in its communication of june 2011 on the community budget, the european commission proposed to finance the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) outside the budget, on the model of the european development fund (edf). it is an unlikely proposition, which jeopardizes the future of a promising sector. the european parliament recalled this in its resolutions of 19 january and 16 february, as did many member states, including france, germany and the united kingdom. gmes is a major programme for the future, but the commission considers that the union does not have the means to support programmes of such a scale. but gmes is a symbol. it embodies the member states' willingness to invest together in a european project. what are the consequences for employment and competitiveness if this programme is financed from the community budget? what is the impact of the sentinels satellites planned for launching in 2013? what are the consequences for our smes, which will not be able to invest without the certainty of having access to gmes data? what is the impact on the union's international standing? these are all issues that require ambitious responses and not half measures.
in writing. the european global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme provides state-of-the-art services - the most advanced in the world today - in the fields of environment, civil protection, crisis management and mobility, via databases. it also provides an effective framework for stimulating innovation. last june, the european commission proposed in its financial perspective to exclude this programme from the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, preferring to leave it to the discretion of national funding. some of us had warned the european executive of the dangers of such a decision in the beginning of 2011. our main arguments have been taken up by this resolution: the risk of making financial aid unstable, of losing its european dimension and the investments already made, of creating disparities in terms of access to information and the benefits of this programme, etc. i have therefore signed this resolution to call for the reintegration of gmes into the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 because it is unacceptable to jeopardise such an important programme, which is considered to be one of the two flagship european space initiatives along with galileo, and at a time when it is beginning to bear fruit.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at 6.46 a.m. strasbourg time, life came to a standstill in japan. in a collective prayer, the japanese people have had a thought for the people who were swept away or destroyed by the natural disaster coupled with a serious nuclear accident at the fukushima power plant. a year earlier, on march 11 at 6:46 a.m., an earthquake of magnitude 8.9 caused the power supply to the plant to be cut off, shutting down the reactors and switching on the backup generators. unfortunately, 55 minutes later, 14-meter waves devastated the plant: 19,000 dead, 340,000 displaced people, an earthquake and a tsunami created the largest nuclear disaster on the planet. i would like to thank you, mr president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, for your initiative and to say that we have a thought for the dignity and courage of the japanese people, their government and the families affected. we are in thought with them. this disaster has led to a political debate - you recalled it - with all the public opinions. in a fit of emotion, some states have immediately or gradually shut down nuclear power plants. but there are more construction sites in the world that are under construction than there are that are being shut down, and so the question is asked. this is just one more factor in the accelerating rate of disasters in the world. who does not remember the earthquake in haiti and the deepwater oil disaster? the european union reacted immediately, commissioner, and i thank your colleague, mr oettinger. following the disaster of 11 march, the european council immediately met on 24 and 25 march 2011 and requested a comprehensive nuclear safety risk assessment of all power plants in the european union. the european commission was invited to review the june 2009 nuclear safety directive and the programme was set up. today all states have carried out their assessments, we are waiting for the peer review and the european council in june 2012 will carry out a general assessment. the group of the european people's party would like to see the following areas of improvement addressed: firstly, when it comes to safety standards, the european union and its citizens must have the assurance that we have the best safety standards in the world. we know that these safety standards are evolving in line with the scientific ingenuity of man and that they must be constantly adapted and enforced on operators in this sector. secondly, governance needs to be reviewed in order to give more independence to the national security authorities. thirdly, transparency. this is an area where transparency must be paramount. all national security authorities must release their documents to the public so that the public is properly informed. fourthly, we must review the technical developments and criteria for the choice of sites for nuclear power stations. fifth, we must collectively improve emergency preparedness and response. i would remind you of the proposal to create a european civil protection force. the sixth point is the clarification of the civil liability of operators. we must include in the cost chain all the costs of nuclear, including the possible risks and the costs of decommissioning the plants either through appropriate insurance or through equity levels. seventhly, the inclusion of the full costs - excuse me, i said that just now - of the risks and dismantling. the eighth point is scientific training and research. i welcome the commission's proposals in this respect, extending the euratom research programme for two years. we cannot solve our energy and competitiveness problems, our social comfort and global warming without addressing all the issues that are necessary for the operation of nuclear power stations around the world, including maximum safety.
madam president, in addressing this question of quotas, mrs reding has raised an old debate on the legitimacy of binding legislative measures. i am in favour of voluntary and binding measures on this matter, because it is clear that things are not progressing at all. and yet, in college, it was said: in the top schools, you find brilliant female students who have much higher degrees than their male colleagues. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we cannot continue at european union level to do without the skills of half the population, which was once called the "other half of the sky". what i would like to say is that i belong to a political organisation which has included parity in its statutes since 1984 in france and we have achieved brilliant results. we had the first woman regional president in france. we've had female candidates for president. we have eight women in this parliament at the moment - i am one of them - out of 15 elected members, which is more women than men. so i think that when we decide to move things forward, it is enough to take measures like these to achieve parity. i am 100% in favour of these binding measures because i think parity is essential. it's simply a matter of justice. and it's not about quotas. i think we should be talking about parity and not quotas. quotas are 30 to 40%, that's not justice. justice is half and half. and i think that we must absolutely achieve that. and i would like to propose to you, madam president, that we should set an example, particularly in relation to the member states, and why not introduce parity in the executive bureau of parliament as soon as the next parliamentary term begins. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the cause of women undoubtedly owes a great deal to europe. the principle of equality between men and women was already enshrined in the treaty of rome and has been constantly reaffirmed in the many treaties since then. gender equality is truly a fundamental value of our european project. the commission has always been very active in promoting gender equality and the advancement of women. gradually, progress was made. many legislative instruments have been put in place, such as directives. there has been a very active and vigilant committee on women's rights and gender equality in this house for many years. a european institute for gender equality has been set up. programmes are set up, funds are voted on year after year. more recently, on 2 march, we had the opportunity to celebrate the second european equal pay day. the legislative arsenal is undoubtedly there, and the european will has been demonstrated on several occasions. however, it is clear that the fight for gender equality, and in particular for equal pay, is still relevant. the average wage gap in all the countries of the european union is still around 17%. women still earn 17% less than men for equal work. this is, of course, totally unacceptable. the committee on women's rights and gender equality is currently working on a draft resolution calling on the european commission to revise the 2006 equal treatment directive, which is one of the most worrying and central issues facing european women in all our societies. on another subject, the introduction of quotas, both in the decision-making bodies of large companies and in political life, i come from a country - france - which adopted, a long time ago - more than ten years ago - binding rules on quotas in political life and more recently - about a year ago - a law for the introduction of quotas in the boards of directors of large companies. france is not, of course, the only country to have opted for such legislation. what has been the result of applying the principle for a few years in one case and for a few months in another? it is clear that things have changed, that things have moved forward. so it's a necessary evil. quotas have an effect. commissioner, you have recently taken an important step towards the introduction of quotas at european level in the decision-making bodies of large companies by launching this major public consultation to gather opinions on possible legislative measures to be put in place. on that point, you have my full support.
in writing. advocating for women's rights is not an old cause. it is true that legislation everywhere in europe enshrines equality between men and women. however, the facts are there and latent discrimination persists: we only have to look around to see it. two thirds of meps are men. to stand up for women's rights is also to remind that a woman should be free to dispose of her body. every woman should have access to information and contraception. we should not overlook the importance of education in this area and of structures that can advise and guide women, such as family planning. motherhood is a choice, not a forced one. we have fought for centuries in europe for free will and freedom of choice: let us not be backward when we talk about women. the rights to sexual and reproductive health must be protected. we may differ on the interpretation and exact definition of these rights, particularly in relation to abortion. but we cannot be different in our desire to protect women no matter what they choose. when abortion is legal and possible, we cannot abandon these women at the expense of their health.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me congratulate the european parliament and in particular, mr berlinguer, for this very timely report. mr berlinguer, you have brought your work to a successful conclusion just as we prepare for the bologna ministerial conference, which was mentioned by several speakers. the european area of higher education fully deserves the political and public attention that it is receiving today. the bologna ministerial conference is taking place at a difficult time for europe with unemployment, especially among young people, reaching record levels in many parts of the continent. therefore it is the right moment to ask how the bologna process in higher education can help us to find solutions for the crisis. it also presents an opportunity to assess progress after a decade of reports. the european commission welcomes this report, which highlights the main achievements of the bologna process so far and points to the way ahead. this is an essential contribution to what is a crucial discussion about the future of higher education in europe. i believe we have seen considerable progress in the implementation of bologna reforms. close to two-thirds of the 47 participating countries have more than 90% of their programmes in line with the bologna two-cycle system. access to higher education has been widened and quality assurance has improved. and yet plenty of challenges lie ahead. the comparable use of the european credit transfer system, the development and assessment of learning outcomes and the transparent implementation of qualification frameworks are among the most important challenges. therefore, we must strive for further improvements in quality, stimulate mobility and ensure that our systems and curricula become more relevant to our labour markets. above all, we must open up access so that greater numbers of students from all backgrounds can enjoy the benefits of higher education. i can assure you that the european commission will continue to work closely with all partners involved in the bologna process to achieve its shared objectives.
president of the european council. − mr president, honourable members, the meeting of the european council on 1 and 2 march was positive and not overshadowed by an immediate crisis. but, there can be no complacency in facing the enormous economic challenges that still remain before us. sustained effort on several fronts remains necessary. one front is fiscal consolidation. another is the growth and employment agenda. some claim that these two are contradictory. it is our job to make sure that they are not. since the 1930s the main response to an economic downturn has been a fiscal stimulus: deliberate deficit spending by governments to boost demand. indeed, in 2008 a coordinated fiscal stimulus was agreed, which undoubtedly helped in the short term. however, the ability to use this instrument is limited in most member states, because of their already excessive debt levels. what had been a solution became a problem. the reasons behind the debt problem are diverse. in most cases, it is not because of gross profligacy in public spending. in some, it is because of large banking sectors, insufficiently supervised, which collapsed and had to be rescued by the taxpayer. in some others, economic growth, fuelled by asset bubbles, artificially boosted budget revenues which quickly collapsed, with the crisis increasing budget deficits and debt. but for several, it is because debt levels have accumulated gradually over time, leaving most member states with debts well over the agreed maximum of 60% of gdp. they applied keynesianism asymmetrically: deficits during a slowdown were rarely eliminated during peaks – let alone replaced by surpluses. they were left with no safety margin when the crisis hit. that is why the rules agreed in the new treaty on stability, coordination and governance, which was signed on the occasion of this european council, are so important. they do not prevent countercyclical deficits as long as the structural deficit over the economic cycle is balanced, or at least remains very small. nor do they limit public expenditure: they simply provide that this must not be financed by excessive borrowing. the european council stated that all member states should continue to respect their commitments under the stability and growth pact, which has been strongly reinforced by the six-pack. but at the same time, the focus on consolidation, especially in the short term, must go hand in hand with further efforts to secure economic growth and improve employment prospects. how to do this was the focus of both the european council, in the context of the european semester, and, as i reported to you already, the one in january. we approached the question from many angles. making sure that, at the same time as we bring budgets under control, we keep investing in our future, in education, in research and development, in innovation. stimulating investment. looking closely at expenditure. making assistance to the unemployed more pro-active. looking at revenues, for instance by tackling tax evasion and tax fraud. exploiting to the full the single market, especially the services and digital markets, as emphasised again in a letter by 12 colleagues. reducing the tax burden on labour, especially on low-income earners. increasing trade. opening sheltered sectors, such as professional services and retail. improving the business environment, cutting red tape and paperwork thanks to digital public administration. in short, making the right choices for jobs and growth in the midst of fiscal consolidation.all this will be monitored by the institutions. as you know, the semester is our annual policy coordination tool, running from the release of the commission’s annual growth survey to the june european council, which will adopt country-specific recommendations, a key moment in the semester. of course, some of the supply-side measures take time to have an effect, whereas fiscal consolidation has a more immediate dampening effect on demand. but we may be able to avoid an overall contraction in credit and i hope the banks will take advantage of the ample liquidity support provided by the european central bank to pass on some of these resources to businesses and households. the action taken by governments and the ecb is also helping to stabilise sovereign debt markets in the countries under pressure. it is crucial for countries also not to relent in their efforts and to stick to their commitments under the stability and growth pact and the new fiscal stability treaty. alongside this monetary policy, the overall policy of restoring confidence in the euro area at different levels will contribute to restored confidence by consumers and investors and will in that way contribute to growth and jobs. our strategy is starting to work. we have reached a turning point in the crisis while being fully aware of the remaining vulnerabilities. we need a short- and a longer-term strategy for growth. the latter is embodied in the europe 2020 strategy, now also closely monitored in the semester, but we also need a specific employment policy, especially for young people. even if the main responsibility lies with the member states, the union can give guidance, as we have done in the european council conclusions. we look forward to the commission’s forthcoming ‘employment package’ to take this work further. we also talked about the situation in greece and we welcomed the progress made on the new greek programme. the aim is to put the greek economy back on a sustainable footing, both in terms of debt sustainability and competitiveness. euro area leaders support the efforts undertaken by greece. and may i just underline, for those who claim that the european union is ‘imposing’ austerity on greece, that, in fact, euro area countries and the imf are providing another eur 130 billion, on top of the first package of eur 110 billion, of long-term low-interest loans to greece, and helped it to secure a write-down of 70 % of the net present value of its debts to private banks. overall support to greece represents more than 100 % of its gdp. without all this, greece’s situation, difficult as it is, would be far, far worse. but we also need a strong growth agenda for greece mobilising european funds, foreign investments and maximising the growth potential of the greek economy. the commission was asked to step up its technical assistance to greece to achieve this. euro area leaders also confirmed their commitment to reassess the adequacy of the overall ceiling of the efsf/esm firewall by the end of the month, via the euro group. in addition, they agreed to accelerate the payments of the paid-in capital for the esm. during this european council, we had a wide range of other issues to discuss also. on serbia: we agreed to grant it the status of eu candidate. this is a remarkable achievement – a result of the efforts demonstrated by both sides in the dialogue between belgrade and pristina. i hope it will encourage serbia to undertake further efforts in order to meet the political and economic criteria for eu membership and to continue to support regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations in the western balkans. we expect further normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina. on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area: we have asked the jha council to adopt its decision in september and, in the meantime, to identify and implement safeguarding measures aimed at contributing to the success of the process. on syria: facing an appalling situation, we focused on three key aspects of this crisis. on the humanitarian side we called for an immediate end to the violence against civilians and human rights abuses, making it clear that those responsible for atrocities will be held accountable. we also called for humanitarian agencies to have unhindered access – the eu has already mobilised humanitarian funding. on the political side we confirmed the eu’s commitment to further increase the pressure on the syrian regime, and invited the council to prepare further targeted restrictive measures. we called on president assad to step aside. as soon as a democratic transition begins, we are ready to develop a new partnership and provide assistance. on the diplomatic front, we supported the efforts by the arab league, the mission undertaken by kofi annan and the launching of the group of the friends of the syrian people. we also called on all members of the un security council, particularly russia and china, to work together in an effort to stop the violence. let us not forget that we cannot act decisively without a un mandate. this view was unanimously supported. evidence, i remind you, that there is more common foreign policy than some think. we have a common position on iran, on syria, on libya, on the southern neighbourhood and so on. in other words, in the world’s most dangerous region, the 27 are working hand in hand. this is a fact often overlooked. finally, i was honoured that all 27 heads of state or government of the european council decided to ask me to continue as their president for another two-and-a-half years. furthermore, 17 of them, from the euro area countries, also asked me to chair the euro summit meetings. looking forward, it will not come as a surprise that my first priority will remain the economy. it is our lifeline. we need a strong economic base to preserve our social models, to achieve high levels of employment, including for the younger generation, and it is the only way to play a role on the world stage equal to our potential. it is a privilege to continue the work in this decisive moment for europe.
president of the european commission. − mr president, president of the european council, distinguished members of parliament. first, while i have already congratulated president van rompuy on his reappointment, i would like in this chamber to reiterate my thanks and appreciation for the work that he has carried out over the last two-and-a-half years. i look forward to continuing to work with him to build a stronger european union – stronger in defence of the interests of our citizens and also stronger in the world. the president of the european council has already outlined the main outcomes of this summit, including the important discussions we had on external relations issues – namely the situation in syria and relations with iran and of course the very important decision to grant candidate status to serbia. on my side i would like to highlight a few elements that demonstrate that the european union may be turning the corner towards renewed stability and growth. let us be clear; there is now less tension regarding the euro area, but we are not yet out of the crisis. the situation remains fragile and we have to complete our work, including the reinforcement of the firewalls. these are an indispensable counterpart of our reinforced economic governance. as i have said before in this parliament, i expect heads of state and government to focus not just on short-term crisis management, but also on growth: smart, sustainable, inclusive growth, which is the key to job creation and the future prosperity of europe. this was, and remains, the first objective of the europe 2020 strategy and is at the centre of the comprehensive approach behind the roadmap to stability and growth which i presented in this parliament last october. this approach is now gaining support and this european council was a step in the right direction, although a lot remains to be done. at this summit, progress was achieved concerning key elements of this comprehensive approach: first, an agreement for a response to the problems in greece; secondly, financial stability; and thirdly, job-creating growth through our europe 2020 agenda, namely through concrete initiatives frontloading targeted investment. let me start with greece. some people continue to say that greece will not make it. i ask why? why should greece not be able to carry out the necessary reforms for its competitiveness? i believe it is possible. the greek government and the greek parliament believe it is possible. the decision on psi shows that it can be possible. the priority now is to make the second programme work. this is our collective task, supporting the greek authorities and the greek people. to that end, the commission is already taking concrete steps. together with those commissioners most closely involved, i have had very concrete talks with prime minister papademos and his team about getting key growth-enhancing decisions taken immediately. as you will have seen from my letter, we have agreed to concentrate on a number of key priorities: improving youth employment, promoting a more business-friendly environment, providing liquidity to smes and sweeping away barriers to the absorption of structural funds. these are all areas where we can make real progress in weeks, not months or years. the commission task force under horst reichenbach is currently on the ground discussing how to put these measures into practice with the greek government. finally, just yesterday i held a meeting with president hoyer of the european investment bank to examine how our support for greece can be made more effective. to cement this approach i intend in the coming weeks to present, together with vice-president rehn, a communication on growth and jobs for greece, taking stock of the progress that has been made and setting out the top priorities for the future. as i set out in the roadmap to stability and growth, finding a lasting solution to the problems in greece is an essential prerequisite for stability. without stability there is no confidence and without confidence we will not get growth and jobs. the signature of the treaty on stability, coordination and growth was a further sign of the commitment to discipline and convergence. this, as you know, was not the commission’s preferred mechanism due to its intergovernmental nature. however, its signature – not only by euro area countries, but by 25 out of the current 27 member states – is a political statement that the euro is not just the currency of some countries but of the european union. it is a strong political message about the irreversibility of the euro, and it was very well received by investors in europe and outside europe. it is the very culture of financial stability that is a condition for a true economic union. together with the six-pack and the european stability mechanism, it is an important step in this process. it is therefore vital that all its appropriate provisions can be brought into line with european union law as soon as possible. the contracting member states have agreed to integrate the provisions of the treaty into european union law within five years. already the commission has proposed further amendments to the ‘two-pack’ to make sure that important provisions of the fiscal compact are implemented under community law: that means also with the active participation of this parliament. naturally this agreement could not – and perhaps it should not – cover all the elements of an economic union and its most pressing objectives like the internal market or economic, social and territorial cohesion. these objectives are indeed better pursued, from a community perspective, in the framework of the existing treaties, and through the european institutions and the community method. implementing the europe 2020 agenda for growth and jobs dominated our agenda at the european council. financial stability is indispensable but it is not sufficient. as we said several times, we need financial stability and economic growth: the one and the other. as the roadmap made clear, there are a number of elements towards growth that must be implemented at the same time. these include, among others, structural reforms, deepening of the single market, targeted investment – yes, we need investment – and boosting trade with foreign markets. on these points, i made clear to the european council that member states must do more to close the implementation gap between political will and decisions taken on the ground. i made it clear that it was not sufficient to talk about europe 2020 only in brussels in the justus lipsius building but that we need to own this strategy at all levels, including the social partners, the regions, and our societies. i also made clear that we need a perspective of social inclusion because there are some situations of social emergency, and indeed rising poverty, in many of our member states. i made a point that structural reform must be politically, but also socially acceptable to our citizens. social dialogue is vital in this respect; that is why i place such importance on the tripartite social summit at european level, and social dialogue between employers and unions at national level. this is one element in demonstrating that the path we are taking is a fair one, where the burden and the benefits are both shared. fairness was a key motivation behind the commission’s proposal for a financial transaction tax last year. more broadly, the last three european councils have highlighted taxation as a fundamental component in our recovery efforts. this should not be a surprise. recent figures indicate that as much as eur 1 trillion is lost every year in the european union through tax evasion and avoidance. compare this eur 1 trillion to what is needed to consolidate national budgets, and you can imagine that many problems could be solved. a strong, unified stance is the only way forward to tackle the issue. the commission is working on concrete measures to toughen our stance against tax evasion and fraud but member states have an important duty to fulfil at european level too. there is no reason for any further delay on adopting the revised savings directive and the negotiating mandates for tax agreements with third countries. this is blocked, as you know, at council level. this is another negative example of the implementation gap i mentioned earlier: positions that are taken at the european council but are not afterwards followed up by the council or by the member states. i have said that the programme for achieving growth is europe 2020 and the instrument to achieve it is the multiannual financial framework. the european budget is a budget for investment; i hope that it will be in this perspective that we will have constructive discussions with the member states about it, and i am pleased to see that the european parliament has taken that position. i am also pleased that commission proposals on project bonds for infrastructure development and the roll-out of broadband were accepted at this european council. together with other priority actions, such as accelerating some initiatives under the annual growth survey and completing the single market, these measures will create jobs in the short term and make the european economy more competitive in the longer term. our citizens want to see real action that will make a difference to their daily lives. since the informal european council at the end of january, the commission has been taking this action with regard to slashing youth unemployment and providing support to smes. smes are the answer to the need to create more jobs in europe. commission teams have visited eight member states since then. in almost every case, in close cooperation with the national administrations, they found ways of helping to get more young people into work. let me close by reiterating that we have now come a long way in creating more stable conditions which will enable us to do the bulk of the work still before us. what we need is not constant drama about the euro, but hard work and determination in our action to sustain the european social market economy. no, the european social model is not dead. but in a more challenging environment, we need a more competitive europe that delivers stability and growth through responsibility and solidarity.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office, first of all, i congratulate you on your appointment and wish you a lot of courage for the next two and a half years, since we all need good proposals for job creation in our europe. i think there are two lessons to be learned from the crisis. the first is the recovery of national and regional finances, and it cannot wait any longer. the signing two days ago of the twenty-five-nation budgetary treaty shows that this lesson has been learned by the most farsighted countries in the union. it requires its signatories to exercise faith, sincerity and discipline. but we all know that the most important thing is not to sign a text, but to implement it. that is where we expect the member states to be and that is where we expect the commission, the guardian of the treaties, to be. everyone remembers how the stability pact was violated by the largest member states. we all remember that a certain president of the commission even called him stupid. so good for the budgetary treaty which, with the six-pack and soon also the two-pack, is a useful instrument, but be careful how it is applied. the second lesson to be drawn from the crisis is the importance to be attached to the recovery of sustainable growth and job-creating growth. i must say that no real progress has been made in this respect since the beginning of the crisis. the january council merely made recommendations to the member states, without coordination or an overall plan. the commission is very active and the many initiatives it is taking would be better understood and more effective if they were part of a larger project, in particular a project for growth and employment. i am particularly struck by the difficulty and the slowness with which too many member states are applying the rules to which they have committed themselves. i also expect the commission to take even greater care to put the member states back on the right track. the epp group proposes two lines of action which it will formalise in an open letter to the council and the commission. first line: the internal market. at the end of this year we will be commemorating the 20th anniversary of the single market. well, 20 years later, there are still over 150 bottlenecks that are hampering the functioning of this market. that is why i am asking you not only to ensure that the rules decided upon are properly applied, but also to propose a legislative package with a precise timetable that will enable us to complete this internal market. there is an urgency and in this we can find, as i say every day, at least a small percentage of growth for all the countries, which is very important in this difficult situation. the service sector, which is essential to the european economy, is the single biggest source of bottlenecks. when we consider that prices vary on average within the european union itself, from one to two times as much for medicines, from one to three times as much for medical treatment, from one to four times as much for certain insurance policies and from one to one hundred times as much for the same university degrees, it is clear that we cannot wait any longer to act. and, of course, we can't do everything at once. that is why i am asking the commission to start with a new legislative initiative in ten areas of the internal market. the second line of action advocated by the epp group concerns the investments necessary for growth policy. i also propose that in the next few years a share of the european budgets be allocated to investments that create growth and jobs. let us be clear: this is not a question of new expenditure, of additional budgets, but of channelling the funds already available towards sustainable investments. it is a question of finally having our own resources. it is not well known that one euro invested by the union can produce, thanks to its multiplier effect, up to 5 euros of investment. take the example of energy. in 2010, the €4 billion injected into the sector ultimately generated €22 billion in investment. i will end with this: our fellow citizens, especially the young, need jobs today. our economy needs small growth at the beginning and steady growth in the future. the budgetary pact will guarantee sound and sincere finances. i think you are right, mr president of the commission. we must take a harder line on tax evasion. we must act - and you quoted the figures, that is huge - in creating jobs, while the completion of the single market and the sanctioning of the investment budget must generate sustainable growth and jobs.
question for the council mr swoboda, you brandished your passport with the name of nicolas sarkozy. do you know that nicolas sarkozy has always defended schengen? do you know that nicolas sarkozy does not want to abolish schengen but on the contrary to strengthen it? do you know how the border between greece and turkey works? do you know that in truth one cannot exercise freedom without security? i have a question for you, mr swoboda: yes or no, do you consider that the schengen system is being managed properly?
question for the council mr president, i simply want to know the reaction of my friend guy verhofstadt since mr sarkozy has no representative of the national front in his government. we have a problem in the netherlands, where the government has never reported anything. it's much more dangerous and much more sneaky. the second thing i would ask him is this: when neelie kroes says that greece must leave the euro, i have never heard mr verhofstadt criticize that. answer me, please.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr van rompuy, i do not know whether to congratulate you or whether we should congratulate ourselves. i hope your second term is not like your first. i would like to say a few things. first of all, to return to schengen, i would like to say something very simple. germany and france are isolated in the council. in the council, all the countries refused to renationalize the management of schengen. that is what it is all about, saying that we need to reform. if you want, for greece, mr audy, if we stop provoking the turks with completely idiotic resolutions in the national parliaments, we could perhaps make an agreement with them to secure the borders. we're just gonna tap them and then say, "be nice to us". they're as smart or as stupid as we are! let us clean up our own house and perhaps we can secure the border with greece by having a better relationship with turkey. it's not a lie, it's the truth, my dear friend, and you're going to hear more of it. i would like to come to the crisis. i think this whole golden rule thing where we adopt a triple golden rule -- financial, social and environmental -- makes sense. i am not against a financial golden rule, but if we do not accompany it with a social golden rule and an environmental golden rule, we are not up to what we need to do for future generations. that's what i meant about the golden rule. from there, what we need to do today is a recovery plan, but a recovery plan that is not made of bits and pieces. you know, we spent $4.6 billion to bail out the banks. they were guarantees, they were investments, they were different forms of bailing out the financial system. the marshall plan was 5% of us gdp; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. let's rise to the challenge. we will not get out of the crisis simply with austerity that strangles the people, but only if we give those people prospects. we had to strike a blow to save the financial system. are we not capable of striking a great blow to save the citizens of europe? it still seems a trifle banal to me. what i am asking for is that with a substantial european budget - mr daul is right - with own resources, with the european investment bank, we should move towards a sustainable and lasting economic recovery with the green economy. i would like to say that we must be honest about tax evasion. as long as we continue with tax competition in europe, we will not succeed. let me give you an example: in ireland there is facebook and apple, in luxembourg there is google and amazon, while money is generated in france, germany and so on. but these companies pay taxes in luxembourg or ireland because there is unfair competition in the taxation of companies. until we are able to regulate this, let's stop saying we are tackling tax evasion. and then, if you want to tackle tax evasion, it's very simple, just say, "all banks that do business in europe, whether european, swiss or foreign, must declare what european residents deposit in their banks, all banks, or they will be banned from working in the european market". that's what the americans did with ubs when it came to american money in switzerland and you saw how the swiss banks came in and said, "here are the statements". do the same! you'll have to make the banks report it. yes, it's the temporary lifting of bank secrecy. if you attack that, you have tax evasion, because you know where it is and you know where it comes from. until we do that, we're not up to the task. i would now like to conclude with two points. as far as bosnia and belgrade are concerned, i do not agree. until bosnia is given a chance, those who are responsible for the war are the big beneficiaries, and those who were victims of the war - bosnia - do not even have a european straw man. i find that morally unjustified. i'm not against the deal with serbia, but i'm saying we're not doing enough for bosnia. until we can take on dayton, we're not going anywhere. finally, as regards syria, guy verhofstadt is right. today we are imposing a humanitarian corridor, but let's not say we are doing anything. yes, there is the isolation of syria and all the options: arming the army, see if we have to intervene to impose the humanitarian corridors ... mr van rompuy, you talk about a humanitarian corridor, but if mr assad does not want it, what do you do? are you enforcing it or not? that's something to think about. the massacre of the syrian people is happening every day and our thoughts are not moving at the speed of the massacre. that's the problem. i'm not saying i have the solution, but we're not up to the challenge today.
mr president, i would first like to inform mr swoboda of one point. since the schengen agreements, i have to present my passport or at least an identity card, not only at the border, but also on domestic journeys. when i return from strasbourg to lyon, i have to present my identity card at check-in, and i have to present it again at boarding. it is very curious: since there are no more controls at the external borders, there are controls everywhere. that's the first point. secondly, if i may, to the great democrat mr verhofstadt, former prime minister of a country which has banned its main opposition force - the vlaams blok - and now wants to crack down on the internet. he thinks it is very racist to mention the fact that people in france are forced to eat halal meat, even though they are not muslims. but it's not just that, mr verhofstadt. i heard on television this morning, for example, that mosques were burning in brussels, but that too should certainly not be mentioned. and soon, you'll be banning websites that mention him. i salute your deeply liberal spirit. the european council we are discussing today is not an exceptional event, but a last chance event. we've sacrificed greece and the markets are temporarily calm. it is the one, we are told, of stability, coordination and governance. stability is stability in the denial of democracy, since the people will not be called upon to speak. coordination is the result of austerity and precariousness, and governance is that strange mixture of bureaucracy and plutocracy which has been leading and increasingly pretending to lead the people to the stick for some time now and, it seems, with increasing authoritarianism and ferocity.
mr president, mr barroso, you have rightly spoken of tax evasion. you know this is an extremely important fight for us, because it's a fight for economic efficiency and social justice. it's all very well to talk about it, but we'd like to see some action. where are the commission's statements? where is the pressure from the commission to help greece to try to recover the 100 to 200 billion euros that are in switzerland, according to the estimates of the greek government? i know that this is not necessarily greece's priority. greece is the main culprit in this failure to actually raise the tax. but where are the commission's actual efforts to put pressure on switzerland so that the money can be taxed and then returned to greece? daniel cohn-bendit was talking earlier about what obama did with the swiss banks and with banking secrecy. where is the european commission's initiative to do exactly what obama did, which is to impose an extraterritorial law that imposes itself and crushes banking secrecy? where is the commission's initiative to have a european list of tax havens? in the oecd blacklist, there's one state, two states, three states every now and then; they sign agreements with each other, and then there's no one. so the real fight is empty because the blacklist is empty. where is the commission's initiative? i am waiting for concrete answers because it is very good to make big statements before this parliament, but it is still much better to put concrete political acts that put pressure on the states because i am fully aware that the first brake is the states. but we need you to put pressure on the states. one last question, mr barroso, which is not about tax havens but about austerity. when we informally talk to your services and dg ecfin, what do your officials tell us? when we put all the austerity policies, the requirements that are being put forward today by the commission to reduce budget deficits, in the same economic model, we are unable to show that there is really a path that allows deficits to be reduced. in fact, we are so slowing down growth, so reducing tax revenue, that we end up with more deficits rather than less. this is the case in spain, for example. the debate is also taking place in the netherlands and perhaps tomorrow in france. the reality, mr barroso, is that when you put these figures together, it does not work. when are you gonna recognize him? when are you going to start changing your path?
mr president, mr van rompuy, first of all, congratulations on your reappointment. i am one of those who, since the beginning of your appointment, have been trying to explain to the citizens that your task is difficult. i hope you will continue to lead it with the same stubbornness. i know she's difficult indeed. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to you about the citizens. i am sad to say today that europe is losing its credibility. i'm not going to get involved in the national election fight, this is not the time or the place. but one may wonder why such remarks can influence public opinion. because they are not rejected by public opinion, they are approved by a very large majority simply because our citizens, our fellow citizens, no longer have faith in europe. the act of faith is something that can be done in certain places. i think that europe needs realities. today i admire all those who, every month, every week, make speeches to say the same thing and i pity those who write them because what our citizens expect are actions and not words. let's take less time to talk and more time to act. what are the causes of this weakening of europe today? the first is, of course, the national recessions caused by the crisis. everyone sees the sun shining on his doorstep, looks at what is happening at home without taking the european dimension which is the only dimension that could save us. the second is also the weakening of the commission. the commission is not in session. i am not saying that the commission is doing nothing, it is working, but nobody is aware of what it is actually doing because there is no clear plan, because there are no specific actions that allow citizens to compare what is announced with what is actually done. take greece as an example. of course, the situation in greece is dramatic. why is it now being made to believe that it is settled? she's not a cop. we've fixed one problem to make the plan work, but in a year or two we'll still have problems because we need to take strong action. in the two-pack i am proposing a back-up measure for countries in difficulty, and what have you come to say to me? the commission has told me that this is a market failure. no, when you talk to markets, what the markets want is to know where you're going and how you're going and stick to the steps you're taking and not change every two weeks. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
question for the council mr president, you speak of popular sovereignty, but you also mentioned the two-pack on which you are rapporteur. and you want to transpose - no, no, i am talking about a european text - you want to transpose into the secondary european regulation a treaty, the austerity treaty with its symbol, the lead rule. because it is a rule of thumb which, as my colleague mr canfin has said, will plunge europe into recession. you want to transpose this lead rule into secondary legislation before the people have had a chance to vote and ratify the treaty. my question is simple, mr gauzès: you who speak of popular sovereignty, will you withdraw your amendment no 9 from this two-pack which is a real contempt for democracy?
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, first of all, i would say here that i think that what is in the treaty could very well be in european law, and on this point i think i agree with the commission. this was said earlier by president barroso, who said that the commission is making proposals to integrate a number of parties. so i'm not taking anything away. i think that rigor is necessary. you can't build on lilies! if we are to rectify the situation today, we must reconcile both rigor and growth. but growth, we're not going to look for it in a piece of text in the newspapers or in theories. growth must be found in innovation, in entrepreneurship, in the mobilisation of entrepreneurs and in trust. and that's what we need to work on together.
mr president, mr vice-president, may i ask you to send a message to our president to thank and congratulate him for his speech at the european council? i believe that it has made a strong impression on the debate by raising the fundamental question of european identity, both that of the european social model and that of the democratic legitimacy of the processes involved. the european council was marked by the signing of a treaty, while even one of the governments most fervently supporting a merkozy strategy is now in difficulty. neither spain nor the netherlands could, it seems to me, reasonably apply this treaty. but i understood, mr president, that at the same time, all of a sudden, those in charge would have discovered that we also have to talk about growth, but not in the same way, not with the same golden rules, with soft rules. let me tell you that there will be no more growth if you just make the internal market rule, which is just a negative integration rule, even though your conclusions turn your back on the balance that was inscribed in the europe 2020 strategy, which you are unraveling, and which you are rewriting less than two years later. there will be no more growth with the destruction of the european social model. there will be no more growth, while those who claim to want to protect undermine the foundations of european identity. there will be more growth if you think first of jobs, common industrial strategies, the european energy community, the concrete fight against tax evasion, instead of waiting for months and months before negotiating and denouncing the unilateral strategies of some member states. there will be no growth unless there is consistency in the commitments of the member states when we negotiate the financial perspective and the establishment of an own resource based on euro bonds and on a taxation of financial transactions.
author. - mr president, mr council representative, this question is addressed to you because this european parliament does not understand what is happening in the council. in december we supported by a very large majority the commission's proposal to maintain the crisis dimension of the european globalisation adjustment fund. we see a situation of total gridlock in the council, in an incoherence which we do not understand, because can we say that the crisis is over? can it be said that this fund has not been useful in taking account of the effects of this crisis on workers? today, the growth prospects are between 0.5% and 3% for european gdp. or is mr draghi wrong when he cites these figures for future european growth? the commission itself forecast an economic recession of 0.3% for the european union as a whole in its latest projections for february, even though in november 2011 it still expected a growth of 0.5% for 2012. where's the end of the crisis? the crisis for industrial workers threatens the very existence of the european spirit. it fosters scepticism towards the european union. it leads to turning our backs on what makes us "live together" and it turns our backs on the elements of social justice that we could bring. the applications made under the 'crisis' criterion have only progressed since the crisis is still present. i should like to say, mr president, that we had the opportunity to hear from spanish and lithuanian experts in the committee on employment and social affairs how valuable this crisis mechanism was. but i would like to emphasize here the intervention of the german authorities. the director of the european employment fund group testified to the exemplary nature of this mechanism for bringing social innovation to life and enabling workers who are victims of this crisis to find a european answer to their problems. however, his government now has a majority to block the extension of this mechanism. we do not understand this and we ask you, on behalf of the presidency of the european union, to use all your strength to break this deadlock. i take up those who are constantly arguing for more flexibility. flexibility is there with the mass layoffs, day after day we see jobs being eliminated. provide a little bit of security, allow these workers to provide training, a transition in their adaptation to the new situation they are experiencing. i am concerned because if this is the council's position today on the extension of the crisis mechanism, what will happen tomorrow when, in the context of the financial perspective, we negotiate the extension of mechanisms to all farmers who are victims of free trade agreements? there is a moment when the council will have to choose between de facto solidarity and virtual solidarity. we prefer evidence today and we believe that the time has not come to make any fancy statements about growth which, perhaps one day, will lead to job creation, and to remove what is one of the few tools the european union has at its disposal to provide concrete help, support and solidarity to workers who are victims of globalisation, but first of all in its crisis dimension. we are counting on you, mr president. you must change the majority in the council, including in the states which today refuse to extend the derogation, even though they are exemplary countries in the use of this fund.
madam president, if there are 100 people who could not vote, it is because there was a technical problem, so i ask you to vote again and the problem will be solved in a minute. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i am pleased to see the european parliament reaffirming its support for this very special form of society, the cooperatives. the companies represent a real weight: 160 000 cooperatives for 5 400 000 employees. we are not going to be angelic, of course, and we know full well that some cooperatives are behaving like real predators, like the finnish cooperative which has just wiped out mr alizay, leaving more than 400 workers stranded on the roadside. it is true and it is shameful, but as a general rule, cooperatives behave quite differently and, above all, on many occasions this form of society allows employees to save and develop companies that we simply wanted to destroy. that is why we must support this particular form of society in which everyone counts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement between the eu, iceland and norway on the application of the convention of 29 may 2000. the provisions of the agreement are intended to strengthen judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the two countries. they concern both the hearing of witnesses and the sharing of information. this agreement, which is concluded between the member states, requires the approval of the european parliament under the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. in 2002, negotiations on mutual legal assistance agreements between the european union and our neighbours, norway and iceland, were launched. at the last plenary session, i voted in favour of an agreement to improve this judicial cooperation. as the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, has said, these include provisions on the hearing of witnesses, experts and prosecuted persons by telephone or videoconference, controlled deliveries, discreet investigations and joint investigation teams, and requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring in order to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular. strengthening cooperation with our neighbours also involves exchanging information for our security. i fully endorse the progress made in this report.
in writing. i have always been in favour of deeper cooperation at european level. it is therefore only natural that i should have approved this agreement, which improves judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states and extends it to the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway. crime is now transnational, so i think it is urgent to ensure that the various national authorities responsible for judicial and criminal matters can work actively together. it's about the efficiency of our justice system. i am also pleased to see that this agreement strengthens eurojust, the european judicial cooperation unit set up in 2002.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the strengthening of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the european union, on the one hand, and iceland and norway, members of the schengen area, on the other. it is important that common rules are established in europe to facilitate judicial procedures, to combat organised crime and to enable our citizens to benefit from a uniform system of justice and to be guaranteed the same level of protection wherever they are in europe.
in writing. i supported this agreement which extends to norway and iceland the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force and widely applied in the member states. the agreement will strengthen the fight against crossborder crime.
in writing. the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union has facilitated mutual assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities. the purpose of the text, which i voted for, is to extend a significant part of this international agreement to relations with iceland and norway. it contains provisions on the hearing of witnesses, the setting up of joint investigation teams and requests for information on banking transactions and bank accounts. i am convinced that this agreement will make it possible to combat crossborder crime more effectively and will strengthen cooperation between these two countries and the european union.
in writing. you have adopted an undignified resolution against the hungarian government, calling into question its democratic character, and expressing concern about the lack of independence of the judiciary in the face of an executive which is almost considered fascist. and today, with a last-minute change of agenda, you are rushing to vote to lift the immunity of mrs krizstina morvai, an opponent of that same government, to allow that same hungarian justice, suspected of being in charge, to judge the remarks she made in the course of her activities as an advocate for the cause of women! proposals that she was not the only one to hold, but for which she remains one of the only ones prosecuted. that's the way it is! it's called variable geometry indignation. you're just a bunch of ideologues who obsessively bow to the powerful and willingly participate in the priesthood where you risk nothing.
in writing. the current system of crossborder successions in europe faces many obstacles. differences between member states in the law of succession create legal uncertainty for european citizens. what is the law applicable where the deceased person's will concerns heirs of different nationalities? in a europe where the free movement of persons is a fundamental principle, such a question cannot remain unanswered. that is why i voted in favour of clarifying the legal rules on this matter and introducing a european certificate of succession.
in writing. this new regulation on cross-border successions will avoid legal conflicts and lengthy succession settlement procedures in the future when the laws of several eu countries apply. today we travel, study and live in several countries of the european union and intermarriage is, in fact, on the increase. the aim is therefore to promote the free movement of citizens and to strengthen the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of the creation of the european certificate of succession, which will enable heirs to prove their status as heirs or the assignment of a specific property. i welcome the adoption of this text, which simplifies the lives of europeans and shows that the european union also cares about the daily lives of its citizens.
in writing. we have just taken a further step towards making life easier for european citizens by adopting this report. in the context of inheritance within the eu we know of court-based systems of settlement of inheritance, where the passage before the judge is mandatory, and non-court systems where the settlement of the inheritance is carried out by the notary. it was therefore important to obtain the principle of circulation of authentic instruments and thus to have them recognised in another member state, which was not the case until now. the adopted regulation also introduces a european certificate of succession (cse) to be used by heirs and legatees with direct rights in the succession to prove specific elements, such as the status of heir or the assignment of specific property. finally, we have succeeded in ensuring that heirs, who are nationals of a member state which applies the mechanism of the estate reserve intended to protect a portion of the estate for the deceased's children, can claim it in the event of an international succession.
in writing. i agree with the rapporteur, kurt lechner, who stresses the need to simplify and harmonise the rules on succession in the member states. the purpose of this regulation is to facilitate the administrative procedures of european citizens in matters of succession and to guarantee the rights of heirs and legatees. within the european union there are judicial and non-judicial systems for the settlement of successions. i am glad that the competence of notaries has been preserved. one paragraph provides for universal jurisdiction for notaries which will ensure that, when all the heirs agree to settle their succession amicably, the competent court will have to close the proceedings so that the notary can settle the succession.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the creation of a european certificate of succession because it will harmonise the rules of succession in europe and avoid litigation and lengthy procedures to settle successions where the laws of several eu countries are likely to apply. it is not right that in the age of the single market and european mobility, the law of heirs and legatees is not better regulated and that our fellow citizens faced with the difficult question of succession cannot benefit from legal certainty and predictability of the law allowing them to benefit from the best advantages for the transmission of their heritage.
in writing. the european parliament approved at its march 2012 plenary session the compromise text negotiated with the council of the european union on 'succession' which marks three years of work and discussion. this text recognises the principle of the circulation of authentic instruments, which means that a document has the same evidentiary effects (content, date) in a member state as in the member state of issue. above all, it recognises the universal jurisdiction of notaries despite the diversity of succession systems within the european union, which should ensure greater efficiency between systems. among other notable developments, the text introduces the european certificate of succession (cse) to facilitate the rapid settlement of international successions. with this certificate, heirs and legatees can assert their direct rights in the estate. finally, the principle of reservation of inheritance, which is not recognised in all member states, is preserved.
in writing. i supported the lechner report, which is a real step forward in the matter of succession for the european union. the lechner report, which has been compromised, advocates the principles of the circulation of authentic instruments and the protection of the hereditary deposit. it also allows the creation of a european certificate of succession for use by heirs and legatees with direct rights in the succession. finally, in order to safeguard the powers of notaries, the report expressly provides for their universal jurisdiction.
in writing. the free movement of people within the european union is one of the greatest achievements of european integration. however, the wide diversity of rules on succession between the different member states constitutes a barrier to this freedom of movement and creates legal uncertainty. i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to avoid legal conflicts in the case of successions where the law of several countries might apply. the regulation will enable citizens to decide, on the basis of specific criteria, which eu country's law they wish to apply to their inheritance. the text also provides for the creation of a model "certificate of succession" common to the member states which will help heirs to prove their rights in any member state.
in writing. i wished to support the report by mr lechner on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments and authentic instruments in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession. it had become necessary to adapt to changes in society, in this case the steady increase in mixed marriages within the european union and the legal problems this can pose. the report therefore supports the creation of a european certificate of succession to simplify notarial procedures in crossborder successions. this will make it easier for heirs to be recognised as heirs across borders. it is a further step for the europe of citizens and proves that europe offers concrete solutions to enhance mobility within the european internal market.
in writing. it took three years of work to reach a compromise text between our institutions. this text, which i supported, should facilitate succession and avoid conflicts when a person dies leaving a will involving the legal systems of several member states. it should be noted that crossborder successions still account for 10% of all inheritances in the eu. the new system, which will enter into force in 2015, will speed up procedures and reduce red tape for heirs by introducing harmonised criteria on the national law applicable to wills where the succession concerns more than one member state (the default rule will be that of the last residence of the testator). it will also introduce the possibility for people living abroad to choose, when drawing up their will, their country of origin as the applicable law reference. finally, it is worth noting the creation of a european certificate of succession, designed to clarify the legal position of persons drawing up a will, and to help heirs and creditors to prove their status and safeguard their rights in the union. one regret: the british and irish opt-outs, plus the non-application in denmark, will reduce the impact of the text on the ground.
in writing. europe continues to work, even at the height of the crisis, to make life easier for its 500 million citizens. parliament today approved an important text which aims to facilitate the settlement of crossborder successions and to avoid conflicts when a person dies leaving a will involving the legal systems of several member states. according to some studies, this type of inheritance represents 10% of all inheritances in the union and would involve an amount of eur 123 billion. it took more than three years of discussions to reach agreement on this extremely sensitive subject for the member states. the new regulation will now enable a spanish citizen living in france to decide whether his heirs will inherit under french or spanish law, thus avoiding the costly procedures that would have resulted from previous legal uncertainties. in the absence of a specific will by the deceased, the law of the country of residence shall apply. this simplification concerns us all and reflects a europe of free movement, which acts, coordinates and protects.
in writing. this report by sophie in't veld supported the introduction of numerical targets to increase the number of women on boards and to reduce the gender pay gap. i am not sure that this is the case. however, i abstained on this report to show my disagreement with one of its proposals which called for 'the commission and the member states to draw up proposals for the recognition of civil unions and same-sex families throughout europe'. it should be remembered that the european union has no competence to change the family law of the member states. i think that the european union must exercise its powers fully, but not allow the misconception that every subject is a matter for the european union to be created.
in writing. in the annual speeches on 8 march, everyone speaks in favour of gender equality, but in practice this is more delicate and attitudes change little. discrimination against women persists, whether in terms of pay, participation in decision-making or political representation. in support of the action of commissioner viviane reding, who recently launched a consultation on measures to be taken to strengthen gender equality, the in't veld report, which i fully support, wants to go further and calls on the european commission to propose a legislative initiative to introduce quotas in the executive bodies of companies in order to improve the representation of women. quotas are never the answer. nevertheless, used in a temporary way, they can be valuable tools in putting down archaic beliefs from another time. there are now only 13.7% of women on the boards of listed companies in the eu. it's clearly not enough. despite the opposition of the european conservatives, the european parliament has shown that it is and will remain fundamentally progressive on this issue.
in writing. this report, which is prepared annually, deals with very sensitive issues. it goes far beyond the issue of equality between women and men in the european union. i think that this report is too general and does not take into account the specific national circumstances. i regret that the epp group's amendment, which recalled that the definition of the family was subject to the principle of subsidiarity, was not adopted. the majority of my colleagues voted in favour of a single acceptance of the concept of the family, in that they voted to maintain the original version of paragraph 7.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament produces an annual report on equality between women and men. despite the ambition and comprehensiveness of the 2011 report, which i welcome, i chose to abstain. this report covers the many facets of the gender equality issue. it proposes a set of measures relating to economic independence, equal pay or decision-making, the place of women in management positions and female entrepreneurship, and violence against women. but some of the subjects discussed - i am thinking of family policy - should not in my view be dealt with at european level and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. every year, the european commission publishes a report on the state of gender equality in europe. unfortunately, the same findings are repeated every year: gender stereotypes, ancestral taboos and archaic views of the distribution of roles between women and men remain, preventing any improvement in the status of women in the european union. in 2011, the crisis contributed to worsening the situation, as it hit women harder than men, weakening their economic independence. employment, access to political and economic responsibilities, sexual freedom and health: all these issues require a continuous struggle to achieve true equality between the sexes. and this fight must be a daily one, in everyday life as well as in the european parliament, where it is regrettable that almost a third of the elected representatives question, on every occasion, the question of access to contraception and abortion.
in writing. every year on 8 march, leaders from all sides rush to remind that gender equality is an urgent necessity. but here again, and as is unfortunately often the case with equality, there is a big gap between the claims and the reality. inequalities and discrimination persist. i therefore voted in favour of this report which calls for the introduction of quotas in the decision-making bodies of companies in order to improve the representation of women. i repeat, quotas must not be the only answer and the systematic tool to combat discrimination. but it is the most effective way of rebalancing things at the moment, because there are still too many archaic and blocking things in our society.
in writing. looking at the gender equality situation in 2011, it is clear that the economic crisis has hit women more than men, further weakening their often precarious economic situation. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it highlights the problem of the gender pay gap, equal work and equal qualifications, and suggests setting a european target of reducing the pay gap in each member state by 10%. in addition, since voluntary measures do not give any clear results, the use of quotas is necessary in order to see more women reaching high positions of responsibility in companies. i therefore support proposals to increase the representation of women on company boards to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020.
in writing. there are many positive aspects to this report on equality between men and women in the european union, including the passages on equal pay and the fight against stereotypes. i supported articles on safe and legal abortion and reproductive and sexual health. however, this report also contains elements of the principle of subsidiarity and some inconsistencies. i therefore preferred to abstain on your final part of the resolution.
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union, enshrined in its founding treaties, enshrined in the case law of the court of justice and regularly reiterated by all the european institutions. yet in practice, the situation is far from consistent: wage disparities persist, women earn on average just under 20% of men's wages, they are underrepresented in economic and political decision-making, and they are increasingly vulnerable to physical and verbal violence. i supported this report because it highlights areas where member states still need to make progress, makes concrete proposals and also takes into account the situation of women outside the european union, advocating greater international cooperation. gender equality can no longer be considered a policy in itself, but must be fully integrated into all policies to finally produce tangible effects.
in writing. it is now a well-known fact that many women in the workforce still have difficulties in rising to the top of the professional hierarchy. on average, european women still earn 17.5% less than men, only 12% of executives are women and only 3% of board chair positions are held by women. equality between men and women is not only a democratic imperative and a necessary part of the fight against all discrimination, but it is also an economic necessity and a societal requirement. i therefore support the calls in this resolution, in particular for the adoption of new laws, if member states do not meet their commitments, establishing quotas to increase women's representation on company management bodies, with the aim of increasing this representation to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020. i have nevertheless had to abstain from voting for this resolution, although i share many of its conclusions, because of the obstinacy of some of my colleagues. they want to impose by force what is within the subsidiarity and culture of each member state, whether on the sensitive issues of abortion or the definition of the family.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which paints a fairly comprehensive picture of the situation of women. finally, despite the undeniable progress made, especially in the lives of our mothers and grandmothers, equality between women and men is still far from being achieved. it even seems to be declining in the light of the policies pursued by some member states in the field of social rights or the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex, particularly in the context of budget cuts imposed by the economic crisis, of which women are often the first victims in the field of work and health. i welcome the fact that meps reaffirm their commitment to the right to abortion, contraception and an increase in maternity leave and ask for a debate on how to combat gender stereotypes, including through non-sex education and the promotion of equality between women and men from an early age.
in writing. the european parliament has made progress this week on a fight that is dear to me, with two reports on gender equality. in a first proposal, my colleague sirpa pietikäinen proposed to strengthen women's participation in political decision-making by introducing quotas and quantified targets. i believe that quotas are now a necessary evil to remedy an inequality that no longer makes sense in the 21st century. i therefore approved without hesitation my colleague's proposals.
in writing. despite existing laws, women's day, women's and men's participation in political and public decision-making remains totally unbalanced. women are underrepresented in the positions filled both by election and by appointment. the european parliament too must be reformed with its 35% of female meps, we are still far from achieving parity! the pietikäinen report, which i supported, calls for the introduction of a quota system for the lists of candidates for the bodies and elections of the parties. it is time for political parties to take responsibility and be aware of the extent of their role as key actors in promoting equality. nevertheless, regardless of national situations, member states must have recourse to legislative measures, such as positive action measures, but also implement effective sanctions. in parallel, the media and education also have a part to play in changing the situation by encouraging efforts to eliminate stereotypes and promote positive images of women in management positions and through the development of awareness campaigns.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on women's participation in political decision-making. the report highlights the wide disparity in the place of women in the member states. i believe that the institutions of the european union must set an example in terms of parity and i hope that this report will help to set in motion a dynamic for promoting women's participation in politics in the other member states. it is through concrete measures that we can change attitudes.
in writing. to encourage the still too slow progress towards parity in politics, this report sets out a number of concrete proposals which i wholeheartedly support. it stressed the central role of political parties in this area and proposed the use of quotas in elections, as is already the case in some european countries. the report also very rightly addresses the need for parity in the appointed posts, particularly at the level of the european institutions.
in writing. the report by ms pitikäinen is very encouraging. it is essentially based on the imposition of quotas for women at all levels of decision-making and on positive discrimination measures. as if women can only rely on such sexist measures to see their merits recognized. i shall be watching with amusement the votes of my french socialist colleagues. their party was not tender a few years ago with their official presidential candidate. from this to thinking that the appointment of mr hollande against mrs aubry is a male conspiracy, there is a step i hesitate to take..... i will also look at the votes of my colleagues in the ump to see if they are in line with their attitudes and reactions to the fate of some parisian elected women, for example, who were asked quite uncourtfully to give way to male colleagues in parachutes. and in my home state of rhône, 12 men were elected in 14 constituencies! and i remember the way mrs thatcher was treated here when she was prime minister of her country. it is true that she had attributes that many politicians today do not possess, and they certainly envy her. in short, i voted against this report.
in writing. women must be better represented in political decision-making! this has been repeated for years, but the situation has not changed. the european parliament is showing modernity in terms of gender equality, but many political institutions, starting with france, are blaming it for being behind schedule. i therefore supported this text which calls for the introduction of quotas to increase women's participation in decision-making. i am not in favour of quotas, but at the moment this is the only way to ensure that women are better represented.
in writing. when will women have equal rights in politics? it is very regrettable that the proportion of women in political decision-making has not changed in recent years and, in some decision-making bodies, has even declined. active action is therefore urgently needed to increase parity in participation in political decision-making and in the exercise of responsibilities at all levels. governments should propose, after the 2014 european elections, both a woman and a man as candidates for the posts of european commissioners. member states and the commission would also be well advised to use legislative measures to establish gender equality and the european institutions should extend it at all levels. the political equality we must defend is in fact based on the need to work towards gender equality in general. without these changes in political representation, how can we change the way we look at the public, economic, social and domestic spheres?
in writing. this report highlights the imbalance in the participation of men and women in public and political decision-making. it also noted that women's participation in this area varied considerably between member states and called for the development of effective gender equality measures to move towards parity in participation in political decision-making. it also welcomed the gender parity and quota systems for elections introduced in some member states, notably france. i supported this report in the plenary votes.
in writing. although women represent 51.2% of the european population, they hold only 34% of the seats in the european parliament. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which proposes very concrete measures to advance women's participation in political decision-making and in the exercise of responsibilities at all levels. the report proposes to achieve parity within the european commission and the political and administrative bodies of the european union. it makes the 2014 elections to the european parliament and the appointment of the next european commission an important step towards advancing parity.
in writing. i wanted to support the report by our colleague pietikäinen on women's participation in political decision-making, a few days after the celebration of international women's day. this report supports the promotion of the principle of parity and the advocacy of quotas for women in the political sphere, already in force in some member states, including france. this system of quotas for women could be used in the preparation of electoral lists of candidates for regional, national or european elections. the report also calls on the european commission and the council to work towards greater parity in recruitment of civil servants and on the member states for appointments to high-level posts in their administrations.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of taking concrete measures to achieve gender parity in elective office in national parliaments and the european parliament. we must strive for parity on the electoral lists. it therefore proposes measures to achieve parity within the european commission, the eeas and other political and administrative bodies. it is because i am aware of the importance of parity for the exercise of democracy in europe, and of the imbalance that exists, that i voted in favour of this report so that things can finally move forward.
in writing. created in 2003, the european cooperative society statute aims to contribute to the development of transnational activities of cooperative societies. the arrangements for the involvement of workers were also agreed. by prioritising social and environmental impacts over profits, cooperatives are central to the social economy. however, only 17 european cooperative societies were set up. the existing rules need to be revised. i therefore supported the giegold report.
in writing. promoting the european cooperative society, which is now an attractive option for entrepreneurship, is an imperative for me. i therefore supported a report which, taking into account the specific characteristics of cooperatives, facilitates the development of their transnational activities, in particular by providing them with adequate legal instruments. the report also provides for the promotion of the european cooperative society format through educational programmes for legal advisers of cooperatives and social actors. it is essential to encourage cooperation between cooperatives at cross-border level throughout europe and to see them as a potential opportunity for job creation and growth.
in writing. while the social and solidarity economy model has clearly proved its resilience during the crisis and the possibility of creating a european cooperative society (ecs) has existed since 2003, its use is still quite rare - and that is an understatement! this is why this report is of interest in the specific case of the sce and worker involvement. the fact that the statute is not adapted to the specific characteristics of sces makes it crucial to provide for the revision of the regulations relating to the statute in order to guarantee a level playing field between cooperative and capital companies and to contribute to the development of the transnational activities of cooperative companies. in this postponement, i support the call for the specificities and added value of social economy enterprises, in particular sces, to be recognised in all areas of union policy by adapting legislation on public procurement, state aid and financial regulation. it is inconceivable that the member states should not be more involved and finally provide more favourable conditions for cooperatives, such as access to credit and favourable taxation.
in writing. i have decided to endorse the giegold report which calls for a revision of the current regulation (ec) no 1435/2003 on the statute for european cooperative societies. such an initiative is necessary in view of the complexity of the current framework governing sces, which represents a constraint on the creation of such structures. i also welcome the desire to harmonize the legal framework for cooperative societies. this will make it easier for them to develop their activities outside their home country. the report also raises the question of the application of directive 2003/72/ec on the involvement of workers in european cooperative societies. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to inform and consult the workers in these cooperatives. however, i would like to point out that the question of the status of sces should be clarified first before the directive is amended. a premature revision of the directive would have counterproductive effects.
in writing. while its creation had generated much enthusiasm in the social economy sector, the current reality is ultimately very disappointing. with only 17 european cooperative societies created since the implementation of this statute in 2006, it must be acknowledged that the current statute is not adapted to the specificities of cooperative societies in europe. this instrument, which is the only legal form of the social economy available at european level, must therefore be simplified. it must also be made more accessible and easier to implement in order to guarantee the rights of all employees to information, consultation and participation. this will be a first step before the revision of the directive on worker involvement, which could envisage the possibility for employees to be both owners and employees within the same company.
in writing. this report supports the establishment of a statute for the european cooperative society. the ultimate aim is to create a harmonised legal framework to enable cooperatives in the different member states to plan and reorganise their activities at european level. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. cooperative societies embody a number of important principles to which i am strongly attached, including collective management, emphasis on local development and the pursuit of the well-being of employees and customers. the relevance of these companies has been proven by their strong sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr sven giegold on the status of the european cooperative society with regard to worker involvement. this status is absolutely necessary to facilitate the development of transnational activities of cooperatives, avoiding them from facing handicapping administrative overburdens. however, it has been shown that this statute, in its present form, does not correspond to the specific characteristics of these companies, which explains the low number of european cooperative companies created. the report therefore proposes to simplify and make it more accessible in order to make it more attractive, without, however, infringing the rights of employees. in this respect i supported the request to introduce provisions on worker participation in the statute itself. finally, i welcome the desire to encourage greater equality between men and women in management positions.
in writing. i voted for the report by sven giegold, vice-president of the social economy intergroup, on worker involvement in the statute of the european cooperative society (sce). this report gives a mixed assessment of the application of the statute, but it shows promise for european economic and social integration. the revision of the legislation on european cooperatives is necessary because the first statute was too closely modelled on that of the european cooperative society. i am, however, against any drift which calls into question the social norms inherent in cooperatives, and in particular the place of workers, as can be feared from the commission's proposal and as is emphasized by the european trade union confederation. i would remind you that cooperatives are statutes which can create other forms of enterprise, linked to their territory and therefore active in local development, but also often at the forefront of democratic matters. the report also denounces the weakness of the commission's action for cooperatives and for all the families of the social economy, in particular mutuals and associations. the commission must implement its commitments and put in place a legal and economic framework that is genuinely favourable to the solidarity economy.
in writing. launched in 1999, the bologna process aims to make european higher education more competitive and attractive and to promote student mobility. the introduction of the lmd system promotes the recognition of a diploma throughout the union. however, consolidating the process now requires more resources. i therefore voted in favour of the berlinguer report.
in writing. launched in 1999, the bologna process has helped to build a european higher education area, to enhance the competitiveness and attractiveness of education and to promote student mobility. this major programme enables european students to promote their degrees beyond the borders of the european union, in 47 countries. i am an active advocate of this common framework which will be increasingly indispensable for our children. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a bigger budget and a greater contribution from the european institutions, universities and member states. the recognition of diplomas throughout europe, the harmonisation of university standards, the promotion of mobility, employability and social cohesion are among the actions that need to be strengthened. now that the process has been launched, it must be consolidated and meet the growth objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy!
in writing. almost 13 years after its launch and now implemented in 47 states, the bologna process, which aims to increase the attractiveness of european higher education and increase student mobility through the creation of a european higher education area, is generally a success, although mutual recognition of degrees is sometimes difficult and the rate of mobility remains relatively low. despite the large-scale reforms already undertaken, further progress is still needed. that is why i voted in favour of the berlinguer report, which calls for a rapid consolidation of this process, including greater harmonisation of university standards, improved recognition of diplomas throughout the union and increased student mobility. it is not enough to decree it, we must also provide the means! it is therefore clear that to achieve this, european universities necessarily need a greater contribution from the european institutions and a stronger will from the member states.
in writing. i share the rapporteur's view that the process which the european union embarked upon following the bologna conference in june 1999 needs to be consolidated. two aspects attract my attention: student mobility and the recognition of diplomas in the various member states. they help to facilitate the occupational integration of young europeans. i am in favour of the generalization and consolidation of these two principles in order to complete the construction of the european higher education area. i am also pleased with the agreement on increased funding for public and private universities and support the proposal to increase the level of cooperation between the worlds of education and research.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which deepens the bologna process on the recognition of diplomas within the european union by strengthening mobility, fighting for better occupational integration of young people and improving cooperation between the higher education and research sectors in europe. as the crisis has severely affected our national economies and negatively impacted unemployment figures, it is important that the european union mobilizes in favour of employment, growth and training for young people.
in writing. the bologna process introduced a three-cycle degree system (bachelor, master, doctorate), quality assurance and mutual recognition of qualifications and periods of study. however, there are still many administrative obstacles to the recognition of diplomas and the harmonisation of university standards. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague luigi berlinguer, in order to send a strong signal to the ministerial summit of the bologna process, which will be held in bucharest on 26 and 27 april, to support greater involvement at european level in the process, in the form of incentives for european universities and the creation of joint programmes. these measures must be accompanied by increased public investment in higher education, in order to reconnect with sustainable growth based on high-level skills and knowledge and the promotion of partnerships between universities and business.
in writing. the berlinger report aims to support the completion of the bologna process. it points to areas where improvements are still needed, particularly in the areas of mobility, recognition of qualifications, vocational integration and cooperation between the higher education sector and the research sector in europe. i supported this report in the plenary votes.
in writing. by signing the bologna declaration on 19 june 1999, france committed itself with 28 other states to building a european higher education area by 2010, the primary objective of which is to offer every student with a diploma from a european university that it is recognised throughout the european union. while much progress has been made, mutual recognition of certain diplomas is still imperfect. i welcome the fact that parliament has adopted this report which calls for the creation of a european certification system in order to achieve full mutual recognition of the academic qualifications of each member state, which is a prerequisite for the creation of a genuine european area of knowledge.
in writing. the bologna process aimed to create a common framework for higher education in europe by 2010. its objectives have been largely achieved, but efforts are still needed. the report by luigi berlinguer, which i supported, lists the areas of action on which we must concentrate our efforts in order to benefit fully from the potential of this initiative. first of all, i welcome the recognition of the key role of higher education, reinforced by the bologna process, in achieving the europe 2020 targets for jobs and growth. this requires the involvement of all actors: teachers, students and businesses in particular - this is essential to improve the university offer and to offer professional opportunities to students. i particularly share the desire to strengthen the dialogue between enterprises and universities in order to offer more opportunities for internships throughout the university course and thus facilitate the entry of young graduates into the labour market. finally, i welcome the desire to increase the intra-european mobility of students. in this respect, i also think it is essential to ensure full portability of student grants and loans in order to avoid any discrimination against disadvantaged students.
in writing. europe has always placed youth mobility at the centre of its priorities since the creation of the erasmus programme in 1987. in 2010, more than 2 million students had benefited from european aid to study in another member state of the european union. however, it is pointless to encourage young people to study or work abroad if the states do not recognise the qualifications and experience acquired during such mobility. the bologna process, launched in 1999, was designed to remove all administrative barriers to the recognition of diplomas and to harmonise university standards by 2010. unfortunately, some states have fallen behind and there are countless students who find themselves in intractable situations because of the lack of effective harmonization. this situation is not only damaging to the people concerned but also to the image of the european institutions, which are accused of being inconsistent. parliament is today assessing the efforts to be made to consolidate the progress of the bologna process. the member states and universities must respond to the very high expectations of our fellow citizens.
in writing. the quality of training for young europeans is an imperative which must guide our action. i therefore supported this report by giving an account of the bologna process, which has been under way since 1999 to establish the framework for excellence in higher education in europe. my aim is to achieve a genuine single market in higher education, based on the broad structural reform under way, known as the 'mdr'. however, i regret that there are still obstacles between the academic world and the world of work. our assembly thus sends a strong message about the need for better integration between higher education and the labour market. europe's ambition is to be the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, thanks to the europe 2020 strategy. this is of course dependent on the quality of its teaching, the recognition of diplomas and qualifications, mobility, but also on the ability of students to integrate into the workforce. that is why i support efforts to encourage the opening up of the business world to students through internships, alternance training. our growth and competitiveness are inseparable from the level of training of young european citizens and their integration into the working world. the bologna process must succeed in this bet.
in writing. the sovereign debt crisis has highlighted the importance of the reliability of statistics provided by member states. reflecting the realities of a country, the quality and independence of these statistics are two of the most important factors in the development of effective european policies. the scicluna report, which i supported, calls on the european commission to offer its expertise to the member states.
in writing. as a member of the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have followed closely the report by my colleague edward scicluna on european statistics. accurate, relevant and high-quality statistics are essential for measuring our demographics or analysing data on our economy. they are needed at european, national and even regional level because they have a weight in political decision-making. if we develop statistics using more standardised, accurate and reliable methods, the union's policies will be better able to respond to the economic, social and environmental realities of our daily lives. i therefore approve the implementation of the european statistics code of practice.
in writing. i supported the scicluna report, which has as its main objective to strengthen the quality and management of european statistics.
in writing. accurate and reliable statistics are essential for any state to be able to adopt effective economic strategies. what is true of the states is also true of the european institutions, which must have access to relevant statistics. the quality of statistics at eu level is largely dependent on the relevance of the data provided by the eu member states. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states of the european union to take the necessary measures at national level to ensure the production of reliable statistics. the report also stresses the need for a systematic approach to the production of european statistics in order to improve their reliability.
in writing. reliable and accurate statistics are essential to ensure the effectiveness of economic and budgetary policy-making by the member states and the european union. the debt crisis in the euro area has also highlighted the risks of statistical inaccuracy and fraud, often stemming from weaknesses in the quality of upstream public accounting data. it therefore seems to me crucial that public decision-makers have relevant, up-to-date and accurate data, collected and developed by national agencies in accordance with the principles of impartiality, objectivity and professional independence. the text of the report on quality management for european statistics calls on the commission to provide support and expertise to member states to help them ensure compliance and the provision of high quality data at all levels of government. it also encourages eurostat to publicly express any doubts it may have about the accuracy of all types of statistics. the text also stresses the need to preserve the independence of statistical services from possible political intervention at both national and european level. i gave him my support.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam vice-president, mrs reding, thank you for being here and i also thank the minister, the president of the council, for being here. this afternoon we are discussing racism and discrimination. these are serious questions, but clearly not enough for the dutch prime minister to discuss with us. yet it is because of a partner in his parliamentary majority that we are obliged to have this debate at this very moment. beyond the empty chair policy, i regret most that the dutch prime minister refuses to distance himself from a website that is racist, violent and lying. because, first of all, it must be said, european workers do not contribute to the dutch economy. across europe, the economy has benefited from the mobility of workers from central and eastern europe. the internal market, which we are celebrating its 20th anniversary, is one of the pillars of europe, and in 20 years it is undeniable that dutch companies have benefited from it as much as those in other countries and have been able to take advantage of the central and eastern european market. so, since 1993, these companies have invested more than 23 billion euros in poland, they are the biggest investor in romania and i congratulate them. but beyond the economy, i ask above all the following question: what is the message being sent by the dutch prime minister when he refuses to condemn the pvv website? that the single market is only for goods and services, but not for workers, men and women? that there are good and bad workers, according to the passport they hold? the internal market is not one-way. its rules apply to both. they apply equally to services, financial transactions and workers. i like to say that europe is not just a single market, but above all a community of values. we know very well that discrimination, racism and xenophobia have led to the most atrocious pages of our history. we have colleagues whose parents, sixty years ago, fought and died for the liberation of europe and the netherlands. can we remain quiet, decently, without responding to incitement to hatred by certain parties? i simply take what the irish philosopher edmund burke said, that "the only condition for the triumph of evil is the inaction of good men". and the epp group reiterates its moral appeal to the prime minister of the netherlands to condemn the site in question clearly and swiftly and, like mrs reding, i am very pleased that here in this parliament the democrats have tabled a joint motion. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we are today in a debate on a dutch website which openly incites hatred and xenophobia towards eastern european workers. do you have any problems with eastern european immigrants? have you lost your job because of a pole, a bulgarian, a romanian or something? tell me about it. that's what you can read on this website. it leaves no voice, it is incitement to racial hatred. it also appears that this site receives more than 10 000 complaints a day. the author is a member of a far-right party - that would be a serious matter in itself - but he is, as has already been said, a member of the parliamentary coalition which supports the present dutch government, which he refuses to condemn. the danish presidency and the commission have just condemned this initiative, but you continue to refer it to the member states and their courts. i thought the commission was the guardian of the treaties, that free movement and non-discrimination were among the values of the european union. i note that some values are more important than others and that in economic matters, when it comes to the free movement of goods or capital, the commission is more quick to condemn obstacles to competition. how can you not make people question the real values of the european union? but there's worse. similar practices are developing in many member states. in poland, two far-right websites have labeled left-wing activists, homosexuals and foreigners as enemies of the race. in latvia, they hunt russians by their license plates. in both poland and latvia, very personal information is circulated about the persons concerned. in luxembourg, a law has just been passed restricting access to family allowances for foreign residents. we have already talked a lot about hungary, and mr verhofstadt has spoken about france. indeed, our president-in-office, after attacking the roma, wants to launch referendums on immigration and calls into question the schengen area. all this is unbearable. this brings back sad memories and not just in eastern europe. let us not just talk nice, but let us act, it's high time.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i shall confine myself to one point with this reduced speaking time. i would like to thank and congratulate commissioner lewandowski and say that after two years of budgetary austerity, the situation of the european budget is becoming untenable. for member states which finance the bulk of the budget, the level of payment appropriations is no longer sustainable. some member states are themselves ruined; they can no longer increase their contribution to the european budget. the others are busy supporting the previous ones; they are therefore also not in a position to increase their contribution, which is calculated on the basis of payment appropriations. but on the other hand, for community programmes, in the last years of the current multiannual framework, the level of payment appropriations is so low that in reality the union is practically in default. this is not a fault of the lenders but of the local authorities, the companies, the researchers, the innovators, all those who are carrying out the investment projects on which the return to growth depends. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the more difficult the political agreement, the more we have to ensure that the figures we are discussing are the same. we must be realistic, but a budget based on the principle of reality must start with the same figures. i hope that from there we can arrive at the optimal solution for both the council and parliament.
mr president, efforts to stabilize national budgets are necessary, but they undermine immediate growth. beyond the measures to restore budgetary balance, a number of necessary structural reforms such as basel ii, solvency, etc. have further weakened the natural economic dynamics. without investment, without growth, the recession cancels out debt reduction policies, increases deficits, collapses competitiveness and purchasing power and, in total, the opposite of the desired result. investment is needed to get our economies moving forward with three priority chapters: innovation, education, infrastructure. it is at european level that these areas are most effective. to apply pure austerity reasoning at european level is to believe that each state will be better off by restricting itself. the structure of the european budget, its allocation and its objectives are not those of national budgets. the budget, although modest, is still the best integrated anti-crisis tool and as such it must be boosted rather than restricted.
in writing. the parliament, by defining the 'general orientations of the 2013 budget', wanted to focus it mainly on support for employment (in particular for young people) and smes. these priorities bear a striking resemblance to the priorities set by parliament for the 2012 budget. the events of the last budget negotiations have already left doubts as to the outcome of the discussions which will soon take place for the preparation of the 2013 budget. the budgetary guidelines, the wishes of parliament? this is to be feared, since for the past two years the negotiations have followed the same dramatic course: the commission's budget proposal, supported by parliament, is being cut by the council, which is more interested in reducing its contribution to the community budget than in increasing its value. this is the same trick that has been played since parliament failed to use its new powers as co-decision-maker on the budget in 2010 to oppose the council's fruitless wishes. 2012 will also be the year for the preparation of the financial framework 2014-2020. it will be difficult to prevent the council's short-term vision 'in times of crisis' from being applied to the definition of the financial perspective 'after the crisis'. but it is an ambitious position that must be supported, for a europe that is in line with the expectations of europeans!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, better late than never. finally, it is proposed to lower the co-financing rates required of member states to benefit from the european fisheries fund. this principle of european union/member state co-financing is a bad one because it restrains the weakest countries, those who are suffering the full brunt of the austerity plans imposed on them by the union, and amounts, more or less, to lending only to the rich. it is a shame to see european funds not being spent because the member states concerned are in too great a difficulty to provide the necessary share of the funding for the release of these funds. it is also scandalous that most of the fund is being used to finance the demolition of fishing vessels instead of helping to create jobs in the fisheries sector. it is also clear that this proposal is late because small-scale fishing in the union is dying, which does not solve anything about the necessary preservation of the fishery resources that are threatened with destruction by factory ships flying the flag of japan or russia. it is the small fishermen who drink to the occasion while the representatives of the sea exploiters quietly lobby in the corridors of brussels. if we want to continue fishing under the flags of the member states of the union, we must therefore urgently redirect the european fund towards production and employment, towards sustainable fishing, towards safety and towards the search for engines that use less fuel. above all, europe needs a truly comprehensive fisheries policy for the 21st century which finally turns its back on the liberal dogma of market regulation.
mr president, commissioner, this is an important agreement which is being concluded today with the revision of the regulation authorizing an autonomous tariff quota for the import of high-quality beef in otherwise very limited quantities. we are witnessing the epilogue of a longstanding trade conflict between europe on the one hand and the united states and canada on the other. we should thank the rapporteurs, and in particular my colleague mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, for their work, as did those who have come before me. but let us also join our voices in calling for support for the implementation of the second phase of the agreement. this is a victory for european diplomacy. it is a victory for the respect we owe to the citizens of europe, since hormone-laden beef is banned from our stalls for good. the sanctions imposed by our transatlantic partners in an attempt to change our minds have not shaken our conviction that an agreement must be reached. the system of restrictions on entry into their markets was particularly punitive for a large number of european food products, since customs duties could be as high as 300%, preventing them from maintaining their presence on those markets. we all remember the sad episode of roquefort or shallots, as far as my country is concerned. at a time when europe must re-establish its balance of trade, the end of these sanctions therefore appears to be an oxygen bubble for european producers. it has been a year since the americans lifted all the restrictions they had imposed, eight months before the date set by the agreement. and so, now it's time to move on. the discussions were fruitful. they showed how much we can work together. let us therefore continue to work in the same direction with pedagogy, with demand, with diplomacy, but above all on the essential basis of reciprocity. because reciprocity does not preclude openness. reciprocity is the guarantee of win-win, mutual respect and collective success.
in writing. the european fisheries fund (eff) entered into force in january 2007. it aims to improve the competitiveness of the sector and to help make it environmentally, socially and economically viable. to achieve this, it has a budget of €3.8 billion for the period 2007-13. however, some countries are in difficulty and have been particularly affected by the sovereign debt crisis. because the spirit of community solidarity is the greatness of europe, i have approved the european commission's proposal to increase union co-financing for countries in major difficulties, while reducing proportionately the national effort required for the use of funds.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the ferreira report at first reading. the current economic situation required rapid agreement on the emergency mechanism proposed by the commission to deal with the lack of co-financing by certain member states experiencing financial difficulties. i support the proposal to increase the maximum co-financing rate by 10 points. this is an additional guarantee for the proper implementation of the eff. this agreement shows that european solidarity is not a mere word. i think it is important to recall that the new mechanisms put in place will have no impact on the next budgetary programming period.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for additional measures to support the fishing activities of member states facing serious economic difficulties, particularly in the south-west of france, as a result of the crisis. these temporary aids should enable our states to have more resources to support their fishermen and to safeguard the level of their fisheries production.
in writing. in 2008, the council adopted a regulation in response to the crisis and its socioeconomic consequences. the commission considered that additional measures were needed to facilitate the management of eu funding, to help accelerate investment in the member states and regions and to improve the availability of funds for the economy. the ferreira report supports the commission's proposals. i voted in favour of this report in the plenary votes.
in writing. as you know, exports of european veal and beef to the united states have been blocked for a decade due to us restrictions related to bse (bovine spongiform encephalopathy). the united states has removed sanctions on certain products from the european union, while the european union offers significant market access for hormone-free beef. we finally put an end to this fight. the agreement allows the eu to maintain the ban on imports of hormone-treated cattle in exchange for increased import quotas for high-quality beef from the us and canada. as my colleagues agnès le brun and tokia saïfi of the european people's party have pointed out: 'this is a victory for european diplomacy, but above all it is a victory for respect for european consumers. the united states and canada failed to impose hormone-laced beef on us, the europeans didn't want it. the sanctions were not enough to change our minds.
in writing. 20 years of trade disputes between the eu and the north american continent have just come to an end. in the context of this war on 'hormone beef', the european union was condemned by the wto for having always refused to compromise on its principles, considering that european consumers could not be deceived about the quality of imported meat. the agreement allows for the permanent lifting of sanctions in exchange for import quotas of high-quality, hormone-free beef from the us and canada. a solution that should satisfy farmers and consumers, both in europe and the us, and that rewards the eu's tenacity in ensuring quality food for its citizens.
in writing. i supported this text, which will put an end to the trade dispute which has affected the transatlantic exports of our products since 1998. the compromise proposed here allows the european requirements for health protection to be maintained while opening the door to a revival of exports of our handicraft products. good news for quality products.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the import of high quality beef which brings to an end a trade dispute with the united states and canada that has lasted for more than 20 years. the agreement will increase imports of high-quality meat from across the atlantic while maintaining the embargo on hormone-laced beef. this increase is expected to represent only 0.36% of the total beef and veal market in the european union, which represents a limited competitive risk for our farmers. this is a good outcome for trade relations between our two continents, which i particularly welcome. the united states and canada will continue to lift the customs surcharges which have been imposed since 1999 on our products such as roquefort, truffles, mustard and chocolate.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to amend a regulation of the council and the european parliament on the opening of an autonomous quota for imports of high-quality beef. the adoption of this report has put an end to a trade dispute with the united states and canada that has lasted for more than 20 years. this report will oblige the european union to increase its imports of high-quality beef in exchange for maintaining its embargo on hormone-treated beef.
in writing. the report which is before us for a vote is the result of the satisfaction of blackmail by the american and canadian authorities. while the european union has legitimately introduced measures to ban imports of hormone-laced meat, the united states and canada have taken the opportunity to introduce trade retaliatory measures that have hit several european agricultural sectors. the agreement which we are being asked to ratify in the name of a return to normalcy for the benefit of these sectors is putting the beef production under pressure from competition by substantially increasing import quotas without customs duties. that is why i voted against this text, which is subject to blackmail which is harmful to our agriculture.
in writing. in the late 1980s, when the european union decided to impose an embargo on meat treated with growth hormones, the united states and canada won a case before the wto, which authorised them to take trade sanctions measures against the eu. as the economies of these two regions are closely linked, the measures had a negative impact on each of them. this is why an "amicable" solution was sought and is now being implemented. i voted in favour of this report because its adoption puts an end to some 20 years of 'trade war' with two of our most important trading partners, while maintaining a high level of protection for european consumers and without too heavy consequences for the agricultural sector. the 'high quality meat' referred to in this report is nothing but meat not treated with growth hormones, of a lower quality than beef produced in europe. the quotas allowing imports of this meat are limited, so the impact on the european sector will be extremely limited.
in writing. i voted against the decision allowing the united states and canada to export more beef to the european union in return for the removal of customs duties on certain imports from the eu member states. the united states will be able to double its beef exports. the adoption of this report puts an end to a conflict over hormones in beef which has lasted for almost 20 years. but it is questionable whether this is at the expense of food security and the health of european citizens. as we fear that the european measures taken in 1988 to ban the use of growth hormones used in meat farming will be called into question. the european parliament also voted in favour of the wto, which in 1999 condemned the union for hindering free trade. the union has not provided evidence of the dangers of the hormones used. the wto forced the union to renegotiate these two agreements with the united states and canada. this decision cannot be without consequences for european meat production. the european agricultural sector, which has been running a deficit and declining for years (a 31% decline in france over 15 years), will not find a way to revive meat production, contrary to what the european parliament claims to justify its vote.
in writing. the omnibus i proposal aims to adapt 26 legal acts of the council in the field of the eu's common commercial policy to the post-lisbon system of delegated and implementing acts. i voted in favour of this report in the plenary votes.
in writing. the general budgetary guidelines contained several priorities for the future. the main point i want to make is that the greatest effort must be made for young people and smes, because they represent a real potential for growth in the european economy. as my colleague from the european people's party alain lamassoure points out, it is imperative that efforts be made to 'promote a long-term and sustainable industrial policy' by providing support to smes. finally, we must be more vigilant, preventing states from spending too much and enforcing the golden rule which i actively defended, although our colleagues on the left did not find it necessary...
in writing. as it is intended to ensure the financing of the various programmes of the european union, the la via report naturally received my support. i think it is our responsibility, when drawing up the commission's draft budget for 2013, to take account of the general effort to consolidate the budget. however, the current austerity must not undermine the support for economic growth and employment. i note that the compromise reached between the various political groups has made it possible to take account of these two objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which supports the efforts and financial instruments undertaken by the member states and calls for a 'responsible' union budget 2013. i also think it is right to concentrate our efforts on the areas most affected by the crisis, namely youth employment and smes, and on investments in future projects with high growth potential.
in writing. at a time when all the member states are embarking on austerity measures, the main victims of which are the citizens, because of the tax increases they have to pay and the reduction in public expenditure from which they could benefit, the budgetary outlines in mr la via's report are regrettable. europe is not going to cut spending! there is no end in sight to the waste and the patronage, nor to the many unnecessary and costly agencies. no examination of conscience as to the usefulness, the relevance, the efficiency of the expenditure. no cost-effectiveness analysis was performed. no reduction in budget lines, even those which have been under-used for several years. the rigorousness of the programme does not seem to be reflected in the appropriations. while everyone else is rowing and tightening their belts, the european union is concerned with its own priorities and programmes with a financial ease due to the fact that, unable to run a deficit, it has a limited but real right of draw on national budgets. in other words, she has the right to get her hands in our wallets. in france, this "joke" costs us the paltry 7 billion euros a year. more than the deficit in the social security retirement branch...
in writing. as regards the general guidelines on section iii of the 2013 budget, i can only vote against such a text. this text, which refers directly to the financing of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) and which is grossly lacking in environmental orientations, is unacceptable.
in writing. a special parliamentary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering has been set up by the european parliament. it will have one year to investigate the infiltration of the eu's legal economy, public administration and financial systems by organised crime, including mafias, and to propose ways of combating it. the misappropriation of public funds, the infiltration of the public sector and the contamination of the legal economy and the financial system are the main threats posed by criminal organisations in the european union. during its mandate, the commission will assess the extent of the impact of organised crime on the eu economy and society and recommend legislative and other measures to enable the eu to respond to these threats at national, european and global levels. finally, europe is sending a clear message to criminal organisations and gangs. we shall vote on the composition of this committee at the next plenary session, and it will then be able to start work at the end of april.
in writing. our parliament approved this week the creation of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and i welcome this. i am convinced that this committee will be an effective tool in analysing and assessing these complex transnational phenomena, in preventing them and, above all, in combating them. this committee will be able to establish contacts, make field visits, organise hearings, engage with civil society and the actors on the ground who are fighting these scourges on a daily basis and thus be able to propose measures for the european union to combat these threats.
in writing. this is an important resolution, which applies to strengthening the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i supported this resolution in the plenary votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution approving the constitution of this new special parliamentary committee called the "anti-mafia" committee. by adopting this decision, meps have shown a certain political will to understand and combat the complex phenomenon of organised crime and its opaque financial activities using the globalised neoliberal market, which have dramatic consequences not only for the economy but also for european society as a whole. i hope in particular that the commitment to involve civil society organisations working in this area, as well as the victims of these crimes, will be respected in the work of this committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report which aims to harmonise and coordinate existing judicial training in europe and to promote dialogue and contacts between professionals in the sector. today, judicial cooperation is indispensable and it begins at the training stage. for judicial cooperation to be effective, it must go beyond borders. the need to promote multilingual training is therefore urgent. i approved a report which allows, among others, judges, legal practitioners, professional organisations, academics and law students to go to erasmus or, more generally, to take courses abroad. to encourage cooperation, the commission will organise an annual forum where judges of all seniority levels working in areas of law that often raise national and cross-border issues can discuss together current or recently controversial or problematic issues.
in writing. language problems, lack of knowledge of neighbouring legal systems, lack of contacts and exchanges between institutions: all these are obstacles to the construction of a european judicial area. the challenges of judicial training at the level of the european union are therefore enormous, because it is impossible to build a european judicial area without properly training those involved. we therefore need to give real consideration to this issue and to make a great deal of effort to train not only judges but also all other legal professionals: lawyers, notaries, mediators - in other words, all legal professionals. there is a great need today to build a european judicial culture and to use all the means to achieve this. we must encourage contacts and exchanges and i would particularly like to stress the importance of creating a genuine 'erasmus for judges'.
in writing. europe is still making too little progress in building a common european judicial culture. to go further in building common mutual trust within the european judicial area, it is necessary in particular to establish networks between judges from different cultures and to improve the coordination of existing networks in order to create 'circles of coherence'. although new technologies make it possible to circumvent the budgetary constraints associated with the organisation of direct contacts involving many trips for judges, electronic communication cannot be sufficient. the creation of a forum for the judges to meet is essential, as is the participation of the judges of the luxembourg and strasbourg courts. finally, there is a need to coordinate better the training provided by the existing judicial training establishments and to facilitate and promote dialogue and contacts between professionals in the sector. otherwise we will have to regret in a few years that we have made too little progress.
in writing. i strongly supported a resolution which aims to combat child labour in the cocoa sector. this sector requires a large workforce, a large proportion of which is made up of children. i have just returned from burkina faso where many children are sold to work in the cocoa plantations, which is shocking and unacceptable. while the resolution acknowledges that producers are under great pressure to keep labour costs down, it calls on cocoa farmers and manufacturers, governments, traders, producers and us chocolate consumers to take responsibility in the fight against forced labour and child trafficking in the sector. to effectively combat child labour related cocoa products, we wanted to encourage the signatory countries of the unctad agreement to take action to ensure traceability throughout the supply chain.
in writing. the global cocoa economy must not be subject to uncontrolled speculation. we must ensure that fair prices are set for both producers and consumers. but above all we cannot ignore european values, including human rights and the rights of the child. children may not be used as forced labour on cocoa plantations under any circumstances. the european union has a duty to promote responsible development and a smart economy by combating all forms of exploitation of children.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which makes it possible to combat a form of exploitation which is unfortunately still very much alive. globalisation must not make us forget respect for fundamental rights such as the prohibition of human trafficking and the rights of the child.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest consumer of chocolate, 70% of the world's cocoa is grown in west africa, and around 18 million children worldwide are estimated to work on cocoa plantations. the european union cannot ignore this humanly dramatic and absolutely unacceptable situation. these children work in extremely dangerous conditions, they are often exposed to pesticides, many of them are victims of human trafficking. i therefore voted resolutely in favour of this annexed resolution, which follows parliament's consent to the renewal of the international cocoa agreement in terms of production and trade. this resolution aims to emphasize the issue of child labour in cocoa plantations and above all it strongly condemns the use of child labour (and unacceptable forms of labour) in the cultivation and harvesting of cocoa beans.
in writing. according to some studies, it is estimated that more than 250,000 children work in cocoa plantations in west africa. they handle pesticides without protection and use tools that are very dangerous for their age. as the main importer of cocoa beans, the european union has a major responsibility in the fight against child labour, particularly in the cocoa sector, in order to establish a sustainable cocoa supply chain in which children do not intervene. children should not be in cocoa plantations but in schools, and actions should be supported to promote this change. finally, more generally, all trade agreements should include provisions to reduce poverty and promote decent work and safe working conditions, and include legally binding clauses on respect for human rights, social and environmental standards, with penalties for breaches.
in writing. this resolution accompanies the european parliament's approval of the international cocoa agreement. while i am in favour of the agreement, i can only reiterate the concerns expressed by my colleagues on the committee on international trade in our discussions. the sector is still very much affected by the problem of child labour and the european union has a dual responsibility in this respect: on the one hand, it is the largest importer and the largest consumer of cocoa; on the other hand, it is the largest importer and the largest consumer of cocoa. the commission has also to promote its core values in all areas. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the european parliament's position on this matter and will enable us to verify how our demands are being implemented. the resolution will also serve as a basic text for the european commission in its relations with the other members of the international cocoa organization.
in writing. the cocoa sector represents a significant labour force and a source of income for millions of people if all the players in the sector are taken into account. i therefore voted in favour of the international agreement to strengthen cooperation between producing and importing countries. the resolution will also strengthen the role of the international cocoa organization (icco), a structure that provides data on the world market and encourages cooperation between its member countries, and make global cocoa trade more equitable and sustainable. while aimed at strengthening social and environmental responsibility, the new agreement does not explicitly address the problem of child labour, which is discussed in another report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this international agreement on cocoa because it establishes rules for transparency in cocoa farming and emphasises capacity building for small local producers in a poverty reduction approach.
in writing. i supported this report, which aims to increase the transparency and sustainability of a sector that provides livelihoods for 50 million people around the world.
in writing. the agreement adopted today replaces and improves the agreement in place since 2001. i supported its adoption because it will increase the transparency and sustainability of the sector. it will set up a more effective and participatory leadership structure within the international cocoa organization (icco), where the eu is based. the european union is the world's largest importer and consumer of cocoa and is home to the main cocoa processors and chocolate manufacturers. it bears a large share of responsibility in improving the sustainability of the cocoa sector. this question has been raised several times during our debates, and we have therefore decided to adopt a resolution on a recurring problem in the sector: child labour. this text will provide a basis for the work of the members of icco and will serve as a reference point for us to monitor the progress made by the parties involved.
in writing. i voted for the moreira project which endorses the conclusions of the 2010 international cocoa agreement. the conclusions refer to an agreement with the three largest cocoa producers in the world and extend the mandate of icco to enable cooperation between all actors and the collection, processing and dissemination of data. the agreement does not ignore the economic and social need of these countries by recognizing the need to ensure a fair price and to promote development improvements. allowing the european union to act on the conditions of development of the countries of the south as a major importer could make it possible to act against the impoverishment of the population, against child labour and for social development. the european parliament's position is in the right direction. it is to be hoped that this is not yet another good declaration of intent which is being completely ignored by the actors, starting with the member states. the gap between speeches and deeds is becoming more and more intolerable, especially in the north/south relationship.
in writing. i have approved the 2010 international cocoa agreement. i am satisfied with the improvements it makes to the previous agreement in terms of health standards and working conditions. the conclusion of this agreement by the european union is a real breakthrough for the cocoa industry. it is a balanced agreement which takes account of the interests of producers and consumers. it promotes international cooperation, increases transparency in the sector and ultimately ensures a sustainable future for the sector. i also welcome the adoption of the resolution on child labour in the cocoa sector.
in writing. 32 million europeans aged 20 to 79 are now suffering from diabetes and the numbers are growing. i have followed closely the development of this report, which calls for more prevention, screening, treatment and research. as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i felt it was essential to develop a targeted european strategy to combat this disease. for my part, as a member of the new national sports council (cns), created by the french minister of sport david douillet, i believe that sport must be an integral part of public policies to prevent diabetes and obesity. several studies have shown that type 2 diabetes can be controlled by effective prevention strategies focusing on risk factors (such as poor or unbalanced diet, obesity, lack of physical activity and alcohol consumption). the european commission has already set up a european platform on physical activity and health and has a strategy on nutrition and physical activity, but we need to go further to protect our children and ourselves from these diseases!
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which draws everyone's attention to one of the new health problems affecting our fellow citizens. the european union must ensure the well-being of europeans by developing all kinds of measures to combat these diseases. prevention, raising awareness among the populations at risk and strengthening research - all actions that could be strengthened by the establishment of a genuine european strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the fight against the diabetes epidemic in the european union, which calls on the commission to define and implement a targeted european strategy to combat diabetes through prevention, screening, education and research and on the member states to implement national programmes to combat diabetes, focusing on prevention. diabetes affects nearly 10% of european citizens, and this rate is expected to increase to 16.6% by 2030. it is therefore necessary for the eu to adopt a strategy at its level to complement national efforts in order to provide continued financial support for research and to encourage early detection of the disease.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the prevention, screening and research of diabetes. it is one of the most widespread non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million citizens in the european union. it is important to distinguish between type 1 and type 2 diabetes as different diseases. research is still needed to identify with certainty the risk factors for type 1 and genetic predispositions. in type 2, the causes have been identified. however, up to 80% of type 2 diabetes could be prevented by eliminating the risk factors for these diseases (smoking, poor diet, sedentary lifestyle, harmful use of alcohol). the resolution recommends strategies to be implemented from an early age through education on healthy eating habits and physical exercise in schools. major advances in health care, combined with healthier living, will ensure a higher quality of life for people diagnosed with diabetes at an early stage.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution on the fight against the diabetes epidemic in the european union. this resolution was supported by a large majority in the european parliament, and i welcome that.
in writing. as a member of the parliament's delegation for relations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i am in favour of the country's eventual accession to the european union and i believe it is important to set a date for the start of negotiations. the country has shown continued compliance with the political criteria and wishes to continue along this path. the report calls on the country to continue its reforms to ensure an efficient, transparent and independent judiciary and a professional, impartial and competent administration . the fight against corruption, pluralism and media freedom are also areas where we will remain uncompromising. i therefore voted in favour of a report which recognises the progress made in the administration, the judiciary, the electoral process, regional cooperation and the treatment of minorities. but we have nevertheless stressed that the integration of the roma is still insufficient. there is also the name issue, which must be resolved by a solution acceptable to all. as my colleague mr howitt has pointed out, these are 'robust but friendly criticisms' and we need to continue and strengthen the dialogue with this country.
in writing. i have supported mr howitt's motion for a resolution because i share the view it expresses. i am in favour of implementing the commission's reform proposals. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) has made considerable progress but still needs to make significant efforts to combat corruption, ensure the independence of the judiciary and reform the public administration. while inter-ethnic violence has ended following the ohrid framework agreement, the political balance in the country remains fragile. i therefore think it is essential to remain cautious about the progress of the negotiations. i agree with the commission in its report that it is calling for a return to political dialogue to ensure that the reforms are implemented within a reasonable time. as regards the name dispute, i think the un can play a very useful role as a mediator in this matter.
in writing. i was not very positive about the resolutions on the enlargement of the european union to include the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, iceland and bosnia and herzegovina. how can we look forward to welcoming new countries to the expensive and inefficient gas factory of the european union? from the outside, they often see only the appearance of prosperity, which they want to share. from the inside, we are subjected to the bureaucratic and unnecessarily restrictive aspect. the negotiations for iceland's accession, which were opportunistically requested at the height of the icelandic banking system's failure, are continuing, even though a large majority of the population is opposed to it, as the referendum next year will certainly demonstrate. we want to bring the former macedonia and bosnia into the european union quickly, prematurely, without having resolved any of the conflicts that these countries may have with their neighbours, including the member states of the union, not to mention their economic, legal and administrative unpreparedness and the conflicting relations between their ethnic and religious communities, which we are going to import. in short, this leap forward in the midst of the crisis, when the union's absorption capacity is far from proven, is worse than a mistake: it is a mistake.
in writing. iceland is a country with a long democratic tradition and aspires to join the european union. iceland would even transpose eu legislation much better than many member states, according to the enlargement commissioner. i therefore welcome the progress made in negotiations with a country that suffered the brunt of the economic crisis but has responded in an exemplary manner and is now on track for 3% growth in 2012. we are convinced that the accession of this country will not represent a budgetary burden for the european union. the remaining problems, such as the whale fisheries, the opening of the agricultural and rural development chapters, must be resolved through negotiation. while i fully support iceland's accession to the european union, it is important to remember that political divisions within the government over potential membership are always liable to jeopardise this process.
in writing. while the prospects for negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina seemed to be compromised, the change of government and the resumption of reforms allow me to say that we are back on track. firstly, from the point of view of relations with its neighbours, i welcome the country's efforts to resolve the existing problems with serbia and croatia. the bosnian political leaders therefore agreed on the formation of a new government and several key laws came into force: the state aid legislation, the census law. however, the report recalls the efforts still to be made to ensure an independent judiciary, respect for human rights, minority rights and the promotion of pluralism and media independence. as the danish minister for european affairs said, we can speak of 'cautious optimism'. some of my colleagues want to close the door on this country, but i believe it is far more important to advance our democratic values and progress.
in writing. i support this motion for a resolution which calls for political dialogue and good institutional functioning in order to move reforms forward in bosnia and herzegovina. i note that the stabilisation and association agreement is still suspended. that is why i am in favour of a stronger european commitment to bosnia-herzegovina to overcome the internal problems. the european union must continue the process started in this region with croatia and montenegro and help implement the european acquis.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is true that kazakhstan is the most economically open country in central asia. european investment is welcome and companies such as total, eni, but also areva, alstom are present with major interests. it is also true that europe wants to transit through this country its troops and military equipment leaving afghanistan. europe's interests have kept it discreet and pragmatic towards the kazakh authorities. but are we not being too pragmatic and risking repeating the mistakes we made with the arab world? the kazakh civil society, and the former soviet union in general, is convinced of this. we must therefore be attentive to what is really happening in kazakhstan. the release of ms sokolova, the lawyer for the trade unions, and mr zhovtis, the human rights defender, is a goodwill gesture by the kazakh authorities. however, a growing and continuing repression of political opposition, trade unions, independent media persists. 43 strikers from janaozen, 9 members of the opposition, mr kozlov and viniavski and mrs amirova are facing very long prison sentences. we have an incredible censorship of the electronic media to silence all alternative sources of information. according to the orders of the presidential security council, 125 websites, deemed dangerous, have already been blocked, 168 others are on a blacklist. a series of laws, recently enacted, reflect this regression of the human rights situation in kazakhstan: laws on audiovisual, internet and information, law on religious communities. while the kazakh authorities tell us they have learned the lessons of the janaozen tragedy, they have just passed a national security law that severely restricts freedom of expression and amended the labor code restricting workers' rights. let us once again be content with the verbal promises of the kazakh authorities and continue business as usual or let us say openly to our kazakh partners that the repression of dissenting voices cannot ensure long-term stability. the european union will in any case have to monitor the imminent trials of the many strikers and opponents on a daily basis and ensure that the legislative reforms guarantee fundamental freedoms. all these developments should determine our position on the enhancement of the partnership with kazakhstan.
the question is "blue cardboard". i would like to take advantage of mr borys' knowledge of the country. do you think, mr president, that the osce presidency has had some positive impact on the development of the situation? and what impact?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament must condemn in the strongest terms the recent violence in nigeria, including the terrorist attacks perpetrated by the islamist sect boko haram. extreme poverty, rampant corruption, poor governance have created an enabling environment for extremist groups and allow them to recruit very easily from among the unemployed nigerian youth. the nigerian government must take effective measures without delay to protect its citizens and put an end to widespread corruption and impunity, and the european union must help the government in its efforts. i also believe that we must avoid vague and simplistic explanations of the conflict based on religion alone, but that we must address the root causes of the tensions in nigeria which are also economic and social. nigeria is the largest producer of crude oil in africa but unfortunately this wealth is very poorly managed. moreover, the nigerian authorities, as well as the multinational oil companies, must put a swift end to the current pollution and address the damage that oil pollution is causing to the environment and which is particularly harmful to the local population.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, in this debate, let us also dare to say some disturbing truths, the truths about the root causes of piracy. firstly, there are the fisheries agreements imposed by the european union which organize the shameless plundering of somali territorial waters. it is this plundering and illegal fishing that has ruined the lives of thousands of fishing families and created young pirates. every year, $450 million worth of fish is taken, depriving the somali people, one of the poorest in the world, of a vital food and economic resource. another often overlooked fact is that the waters off the horn of africa have become a veritable dumping ground for toxic waste, all kinds of waste that is also radioactive and is being dumped in violation of international law. in the end, under the guise of fighting piracy, it is foreign policy interests, geostrategic interests, economic interests that are perfectly served. so this is the bottom of the cards, and these are the ingredients that allowed this phenomenon to develop. and while we are focusing on this struggle, which i agree is necessary to secure the sea routes, the real bandits that are for africa the multinationals continue to act with impunity.
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am ready to debate. if you had listened to me very carefully, i have distinguished between fisheries agreements and illegal fishing. clearly, we see this problem of piracy differently, since i am also concerned with the interests of the peoples of africa and the horn of africa. we can continue this debate indefinitely, but my text is clear and i believe that i have defended a position which is undoubtedly iconoclastic but which also had to be expressed here.
madam president, commissioner, the somali pirates are relentlessly attacking cargo ships that pass off their coast. the gulf of aden and the indian ocean are not being used for piracy - as we have just heard - hostage-taking, ransom demands, disappearances, acts of high seas banditry are increasing day by day. the incidents are not only numerous but often very violent and it is no use looking back, we have to see how we are going to build the future, since pirates no longer hesitate to enter the territorial waters of foreign states, so everything is allowed. i myself was on a mission a few months ago in the gulf of aden with the sailors of the atalanta mission and i can tell you that i am convinced that without their courageous action the attacks would have been even more numerous, even more violent and even more dangerous. i have two basic questions: the first concerns the follow-up to the arrests, namely the detention of the pirates, and the problem of their trial. today, when they are caught, with great risk to the seamen, they are kept for a regulated period directly on the ships before being released and so they go back into the wild and again, very quickly, commit acts of piracy. so, would it not be urgent that we at least help to establish a judicial system capable of imposing sanctions against these pirates? secondly, as has just been said - and i do not share the view expressed here - the role of the atalante mission is essential. it is the key to protecting and fighting against piracy, and i am concerned about the increase in the number of private companies providing protection for ships. who controls them? what exactly are their prerogatives? we have seen in several international theatres that the use of these private companies can lead to serious abuses (abusive use of force, killing of civilians, etc.), so they must be controlled, their use limited as much as possible. what do you propose, commissioner?
madam president, as has already been said, we are thinking of the victims of piracy and their families. it is a human tragedy, but it is also a problem that undermines an activity - fishing - which is also an economic resource. this should encourage us to call for a stronger fight against piracy at sea. because these attacks are the work of increasingly violent criminal organizations and are occurring more and more frequently. it is therefore urgent to establish a military and above all a legal framework to combat this piracy and to ensure the protection of men and ships, while at the same time considering ways of avoiding these intolerable acts and dismantling this savage piracy. that is why i cannot understand why the military resources of atalanta are being reduced, why the vote in the council on the extension of this mission has been postponed. i therefore ask the commission to urge the member states to increase the resources of this mission as quickly and effectively as possible. we must also ensure that the united nations convention on the law of the sea is implemented to put an end to the unacceptable and widespread impunity.
mr president, commissioner, you mentioned the european regulations on co2 emissions from cars. this was already an initiative of the commission in 1995. however, in the face of the lobby of the large car manufacturers, what was to be achieved in 2005 will not be achieved until 2015. i would like to see democracy functioning at some point and the citizens being aware of the transparency of what is being discussed in this parliament, because those in the conservative benches who claim to protect the citizens are now leaving them in the lurch with their fuel bills exploding. they leave employees facing the relocation of an industry that has not innovated and has left our territories. and they leave citizens around the world facing climate change. yes, we are in a complicated situation. we are faced with a twofold difficulty. we have both governments that can't change the software, that can't imagine an economic model that is anything other than household debt, state debt and debt to the climate or the planet. and then we see in this situation lobbies that are burrowing into the breach of this conservatism. nuclear power, carbon sequestration, oil sands, shale gas are all trying to take advantage of this political indecision. mrs hedegaard, your road map is not perfect, mr davies' report is not perfect, but it would be irresponsible for this parliament to validate poland's total irresponsibility. we shall vote in favour of this report.
question for the council mr helmer, can you confirm that in britain, edf, e.on and rwe are negotiating a buy-back rate for nuclear between 9 and 12 cents per kwh, which is now higher than the price for onshore wind, which is 7 cents per kwh?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to return to what my colleague, mrs gardini, said because i have to say that mr davies' report was voted on in our committee on the environment, public health and food safety by a very small majority. this reflects the fears expressed by a number of our colleagues about the current direction of the text. so a roadmap for 2050, yes, okay, but still we must not touch what was voted in the energy-climate package for the years 2013-2020. an amendment to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme before it is fully implemented, its full implementation in 2013, could be perceived by market operators as a chronic risk of legal instability. that would lead to a discrediting of the carbon market and, to me, it is a bad solution to a real problem. some people complain that the price of carbon is too low. this is unfortunately due to the economic downturn. is it not the purpose of the market mechanism to achieve the lowest price? in the past, when this system was being set up, the fear was that the price of carbon would skyrocket. let us not be more royalist than the king. let us be very careful not to undermine the competitiveness of our industries - i am thinking of airlines, this has already been said - and i also quote china, which has frozen its purchases of airbus in protest against the introduction of the new european tax on carbon dioxide emissions from the aviation sector. is that what we want? i am particularly concerned that what seemed to be an environmental solution must not become a potential source of trade conflict.
mr president, commissioner, allow me a few seconds to express my approval of the road map as presented to us by mr davies and as we have supported in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. at the same time, when we are faced with a resolution which sets a course and we must always keep it in mind, we realise - as we have heard in a number of speeches this morning, in other benches than the one i am in - that this course can have a certain invisibility, unreadability, because there are many actions, especially economic ones, which indicate that nothing will be done properly. when we look at the position of a number of our governments, we get the impression that you are sometimes a little isolated. i would therefore like to be assured, madam commissioner, that your determination, as you have always shown, will enable us to go on in this way, despite the difficulties we may have in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, my colleague mr janez potočnik unfortunately cannot be here today so he has asked me to replace him and i am happy to do so as i had the chance myself also to participate in part of the water forum in marseilles as have my colleagues piebalgs and georgieva. in reply to your questions, first i would like to recall that a ministerial declaration was developed by the host, france, together with states’ representatives and the commission. second, the eu has developed over several decades a comprehensive water policy. since the year 2000, with the adoption of the water framework directive, water policy aims at achieving good status of all eu waters by 2015 on the basis of integrated river basin management. this brings together all users and stakeholders to address all pressures on the water environment in the whole river basin, beyond administrative boundaries. the eu will continue to promote this approach worldwide. but, in spite of our efforts, the achievement of eu water policy goals is still challenging due to a number of old and emerging water management issues related to both water quality and quantity. we also have to look ahead at the vulnerability of the water environment to climate change and ensure that adaptation to climate change is taken into account in our water policies. the commission presented at the world water forum a unique eu web-based platform: the european climate adaptation platform, which is a concrete solution, focusing also on water issues like drought and flooding. at global level, the eu will do its utmost through its development cooperation policy to promote integrated river basin management as a key tool to achieve the millennium development goals and multi-level governance. third, i would like to refer to the 2012 blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources that will present the eu policy response to current water challenges. the blueprint should, subject to an impact assessment, suggest actions in seven specific areas: on land use; on economic incentives to propose recommendations on how water pricing can reflect the true cost of water use and pollution; on water efficiency targets, to provide tools to develop indicative water efficiency targets – at eu, member state, river basin and sectoral levels; on innovation, the blueprint will be complemented by a water innovation partnership with stakeholders and the private sector. the blueprint will also look at ways to improve governance, including analysing the administrative setup and the potential to reduce administrative burden. consideration will also be given to the knowledge base for water policy-making, where the blueprint will seek improvements in statistics on pressure exerted by all activities on water resources; the enhancement of the water information system for europe and the development of a road map for water research. finally, the blueprint will reinforce the eu’s commitment to achieve the mdgs on access to drinking water and sanitation, while taking into account relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference. the implementation of the new commission policy framework on water management in developing countries will translate integrated water management into concrete action, that is by expanding the eu water initiative. the ministerial declaration of the world water forum complements the commission communication on a development agenda for change, by highlighting the key water-related issues for the implementation of eu development policy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of access to water and sanitation is a key issue for me, and for us. that is why i was particularly pleased to be associated with my colleague richard seeber in preparing a resolution on the issues at the world water forum. indeed, through water, the health and living conditions of billions of people are at stake. i came home from a remote area in burkina faso, where there is no running water or electricity. i lived with the people, with stagnant water. i experienced the difficulties faced by the population, an anxiety and then the children's illness. so i am pleased to hear that the first of the un millennium development goals has been achieved, well ahead of the 2015 deadline. the proportion of the population without access to water has halved since 1990 and this in 2010. i just want to say, "what good news!" but what a call to action! this success is a sign that we must never give up and that action pays off. i therefore welcome this resolution and would like to stress three main points. firstly, as i have just said, we must do everything possible to achieve all the un millennium development goals, particularly as regards the problem of sanitation. secondly, water management by catchment areas and the problem of pollution at the source must be addressed upstream and not downstream. finally, i would like to mention the 1% solidarity for water, a principle applied in france which makes it possible to raise funds to improve access to water. i have just spoken about this, for example in relation to burkina faso.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is a good thing that there is this resolution on water because it shows the good intentions of the european parliament. i would like to highlight a few problems. first, the management of water. the world water forum is currently being held in marseille. but you know that there is a strong criticism of the conflict of interest which exists because the president of this world water forum, mr loïc fauchon, is at the same time president of the société des eaux de marseille, which is a subsidiary of veolia. so it becomes a commercial forum rather than a public interest for water to become a global public good. on water management, it is very important that there is a reappropriation by the communities, under direct control, of water management. the forum ended with a statement that private investment can guarantee the right to water, which logically directs the debate towards privatization of water systems. this is a problem both at the level of the european countries and at the level of the acp countries. the second problem is water and sanitation. when we consider that 88% of diseases worldwide are caused by the consumption of unsafe water, poor hygiene or inadequate sanitation, we should really invest in treatment, especially of industrial waste and waste water that is dumped untreated in nature. this still represents 70% of the waste water. the last point concerns water and energy. you can't replace water. but you know that the problem of shale gas management can lead to problems of pollution of the seabed, which is why the groundwater framework directive is important, where it has been found in canada or the united states that there could be pollution. so if we're going to fight about water quality, we have to do it at all levels.
mr president, commissioner, on the occasion of this resolution, allow me to address two subjects, firstly the issue of water management in the world and in europe, and then a question to the european commission so that acts can be adopted to address a number of our concerns related to the common agricultural policy. the challenge is well known: water is the big business of the 21st century. it is because we have the answers that we will have peace in the world and in europe. we know the challenges of food management and food security. and, on the occasion of this forum, as our colleague mr rivasi has pointed out, too many purely commercial concerns are at the heart of the discussion which has been taking place in marseille in recent days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because nothing in the cap reform says anything about this management, as our colleague mr sârbu said earlier. so, give us some answers... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the sixth world water forum is under way, and the main water markets are meeting there. it is not therefore a single platform for dialogue as our resolution says. next door is an alternative forum where the fundamental issue is the right to water. because water is not a commodity like the others, it is a natural commodity like air, sun, it is essential to life and not only to that of human beings. the water belongs to no one. it is not subject to appropriation, even public. it cannot be a source of profit. what is at stake is the management of this water, the water that is useful to humans. and here, the drift of the public-private partnerships is dramatic within our countries. water is getting more expensive without improving its quality. and we should ask ourselves what responsibilities the european union has, particularly in the way public service concessions are being misused. it is time to react, to take a global approach, and i for one welcome the fact that in france many municipalities are deciding to take back control of their water management. (applause) i would like to thank
author. - mr president, commissioner, after mad cow disease, bovine tuberculosis, foot-and-mouth disease and bluetongue, there is a new schmallenberg virus, as it is called, which is beginning to affect our farms. the extent of the disease will not be known for a few weeks, when cattle and sheep are due to give birth. there are several questions. that is the point of our oral question. what discussions do you have, commissioner, to prevent the embargo on our beef? are we finding ways to speed up the detection of this disease and try to slow or contain it? i also think that a european fund should be set up to compensate farmers affected by this disease, in cooperation with each of the member states. finally, do these health crises not raise new and serious questions about our agricultural systems, which are increasingly concentrated and increasingly free-trade-oriented, but which are ultimately becoming increasingly fragile, and where food security and health are increasingly under threat? this should be reflected in the discussion on the new reform of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. last year, the european commission adopted a 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050' with the objective of reducing co2 emissions by 80% by 2050. to achieve this, several action plans in different areas (transport, energy, climate change, etc.) are being put forward. the european parliament, in an own-initiative report, proposes various measures to complement these action plans. this report focuses on the shortcomings of the emissions trading system (ets) and on energy efficiency. on the eqf, i advocated a stepwise approach rather than binding targets.
in writing. i have been particularly invested in the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050 . i am convinced of the need to work towards a europe that emits less co2. in this respect, the roadmap recommends sectoral strategies in transport, electricity and agriculture, aimed at gradually reducing co2 emissions while maintaining a globally competitive economy. however, i do not hide from you that this text has also been the source of deep political disagreement. as so often, the left wanted to do more for the climate without considering the economic realities. it called for the emissions trading system to be revised to make it even more binding. that would undermine our businesses, and i was strongly opposed to that. i am in favour of a long-term vision, more realistic than that advocated by our socialist and green comrades. in the short term, such a review would make it even more difficult to restart our economy. i think we need to give our companies more incentives rather than constantly stigmatising and punishing them.
in writing. the transition to a low-carbon economy is an absolute and unavoidable necessity in europe today; it is a big company that demands ambitious goals in all areas. the report by our colleague chris davies has the merit of covering a very wide range of issues: from energy efficiency to cap reform, from the quota trading system to smart energy networks and rail corridors, there is no shortage of areas of action to ensure that by 2050 we are firmly and definitively committed to a low-carbon economy. we can discuss objectives and percentages, but i think this report lays the foundations for what we should do. i have abstained, however, not because i disagree with the substance of the matter, but because i think we must not make nuclear energy appear to be green energy! by including it in the list of decarbonised energy sources, along with renewable energy sources, we are denying its dangers and the many risks it entails. nuclear power is nothing more than a transitional energy source, it is by no means an energy source for the future!
in writing. we need to promote a low-carbon economy, and take all measures to follow the roadmap to reduce co2 by at least 40% by 2030, 60% by 2040 and 80% by 2050. the emissions trading system needs to be improved and the transport and agricultural sectors must also be involved in this effort to reduce emissions. member states should be encouraged to take legislative measures to include air transport emissions in the ets without succumbing to commercial pressure from third countries opposed to the ets. the eu must continue to promote investment and stimulate technological innovation in order to remain competitive and exemplary at the global level.
in writing. the message that the european parliament wants to convey by adopting this report is that we are all ready to endorse the commission's major long-term commitments on climate policy. i am clearly in favour of strong eu ambition and want parliament to send a positive signal on climate. i cannot, however, legitimise instruments which are not good for climate, social and economic policy. although i am aware that at european level we have a different way of doing politics from the national scene, often with the need to seek compromises, i cannot bring myself to vote in favour of a text which conveys the myth of nuclear and clean coal. the lesson of the copenhagen resolution, which we all learned, is still very much alive. that is why i did not vote in favour of this road map which mentions nuclear energy as an instrument for moving towards a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050.
in writing. the european parliament approved on thursday 15 march 2012 the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050. with this text, the european union sets out its long-term vision and continues its reflection on the outlines of a green economy. i welcome the adoption of this report which will give greater visibility to economic and institutional actors for the coming decades with a step-by-step approach for 2030, 2040 and 2050. it is true that profound differences have emerged about the functioning of the ets, since the carbon price is currently very low. the proposal of the parliamentary left to artificially inflate the price of a tonne of carbon was not acceptable because it does not take account of the particularly difficult economic and social context of recent years. the truth is that the left has absolutely no regard for the reality on the ground and the difficulties faced by our entrepreneurs. rather than acting under duress and being overwhelmed by a measure of which we were unaware, we preferred a prudent and discerning approach by asking the european commission to assess the situation and make proposals where appropriate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out an ambitious and realistic roadmap for reconciling competitiveness and the fight against global warming. europe is an example in decarbonising the economy, but it cannot act alone: emissions generated by one country affect all of humanity. there is no barrier to stop pollution and there is an urgent need for action on a global scale. many areas are involved: energy, transport, industry, housing, agriculture. an integrated approach is therefore needed to create the conditions for truly green growth. the fight against global warming requires reducing greenhouse gas emissions, an energy transition to phase out fossil fuels and more responsible behaviour. it will not be done in a few years, but i believe that we need sustained efforts in the long term, because it would cost us more to wait and we cannot compromise when it comes to protecting our planet and our environment. i believe that we need to focus on innovation and research to produce alternative energy, and to support businesses and households in this crusade to fight global warming.
in writing. the party for freedom (pvv) in the netherlands has been controversial in recent weeks for its xenophobic statements. the party's website encouraged the dutch to complain about eastern europeans living in their country. in this resolution, we strongly condemned the content of this website, which we considered to be a violation of the free movement of persons and an open incitement to discrimination against workers from the countries of central and eastern europe in the european union. i have taken a firm and unhesitating stand against the pvv party platform, which has posted clearly malicious statements and flouts our fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. a simply outrageous website that can only be denounced! in early february 2012, the party for freedom (pvv) in the netherlands launched a whistleblowing website called central and eastern european citizens alert platform, explicitly inviting citizens to report their complaints against the immigrant workers who have flooded in from central and eastern europe. in defiance of the most basic rights and with a clearly discriminatory aim, this site is simply unacceptable. it is to fight against this kind of dangerous drift in democracy and to reaffirm our fight against racism and xenophobia that we have voted a political resolution condemning this website. the european union has no place for the blatant infringement of the free movement of persons and the open incitement to discrimination. the prime minister must also dissociate himself clearly and quickly from this deplorable initiative. the commission and the council must urgently cooperate to stop the spread of this kind of behaviour which tarnishes european values and the european project.
in writing. why is the title of this resolution in the plural? this text is aimed at only one site, the dutch party for freedom (pvv) and the only dutch government, which refuses to condemn it. the pvv now claims to prove its analysis correct by appealing to concrete testimonies of citizens, after having campaigned against the enlargement of the european union in its time. we're calling a whistle-blowing site! there is a discrimination against eastern european nationals! but let me say this: the freedom of expression and opinion that you preach so well in russia or africa, you are very quickly putting barriers in europe. the only views that can be expressed here are that the european union is a marvel, its single currency a source of prosperity, the accession of turkey, morocco and uzbekistan an exciting prospect, immigration, invariably an opportunity even if it ruins the host countries and robs the countries of origin of their competences. the one thought police are on the lookout! its leader, guy verhofstadt, even has an unstoppable solution to ensure that everyone conforms to political correctness: banning opposition parties. he made it at home. this is democracy!
in writing. we are not only facing a simple infringement of free movement but also an unacceptable stigma. the website set up by geert wilders' party to anonymously denounce foreign workers by explicitly targeting workers from central and eastern europe encourages amalgamations. he feeds the other's rejection. intolerance is hidden behind the mask of anonymity. i am extremely surprised and shocked by the lack of reaction from mark rutte. has he forgotten article 1 of the dutch constitution which prohibits discrimination and proclaims equality for all citizens living on dutch soil? has he forgotten the european values of tolerance ? or is he so afraid of losing the support of geert wilders' party that he shuts his eyes and turns a deaf ear? has he forgotten that his role as a politician is precisely to enable people to live together? has he forgotten that it is his duty to guarantee european citizens their right to live and work peacefully in the netherlands? or does it take refuge behind strategic and political considerations at the expense of the common good? to not report it is to endorse this degrading initiative. it's his duty to respond.
in writing. we have built the european union on a foundation of values. they can be called into question at any time. as meps, it is our duty to defend them. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because it is inconceivable that in europe a government should fail to take action against private initiatives which aim to incite racial hatred and xenophobia. this is the case in the netherlands. the government must quickly condemn the websites set up by their pvv partner. the far-right party openly claims the authorship. there are many questions that need to be asked.
in writing. following the events in russia, the fraud observed by european observers on the ground during the presidential elections, we wanted to inform the russian authorities that it would be more than desirable for their electoral system to change. according to the osce and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, the electoral process had strongly favored one candidate, due to shortcomings in the candidate registration procedure, uneven and biased media coverage and the use of public means to the benefit of one candidate . international observers have reported that there were bottlenecks and irregularities in one third of the polling stations checked. on the one hand, we urge the new russian president to simplify the rules for registering political parties and on the other hand, i think it is time for vladimir putin to start a "sincere dialogue" with the protesters.
in writing. vladimir putin's first-round victory in the march 4 presidential election, marking his return to the kremlin after four years as head of government, comes as no surprise to anyone. this election, once again tainted by fraud despite the installation of webcams supposed to guarantee its smooth running, was only a sham election. the massive protest movement that has swept russia since the controversial legislative elections last december no longer allows vladimir putin to pretend that the opposition does not exist! twenty years after the collapse of the soviet regime, vladimir putin must listen to the opposition and undertake the reforms necessary to move towards democracy and respect for human rights. for all these reasons i supported the european parliament's resolution on this subject, in which the european union calls on russia to reform its political system in depth and to establish a real rule of law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which shows our concern about the political situation in russia. mr. putin is turning democracy into a tsarist oligarchy, and he is eroding freedom and civil rights. i want to express my solidarity and support for those who oppose this system, but also my deepest respect for the peaceful struggle.
in writing. following the duma elections on 4 december 2011, and then the presidential elections on 4 march 2012, the russian people expressed through large demonstrations their aspiration for more democracy and a deep reform of the electoral system. despite recent modest initiatives by the russian authorities to improve electoral laws, the general rules remain excessively complex and vague, and result in inconsistent application of the legal basis. the text of the resolution strongly criticises the shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the elections, in particular the unequal treatment of candidates by the russian audiovisual media during the election campaign, and condemns the arrest of dozens of protesters during the protests. it also stressed the need for a critical eu commitment to russia, fully supporting the political modernisation agenda. the text calls on president medvedev to ensure the adoption of the necessary reforms of the political system, and encourages the various russian democratic opposition groups to unite more closely around a positive programme of political reforms. convinced of the usefulness of this scripture, i supported him.
in writing. on march 4, russian citizens went to the polls to elect their head of state and it was vladimir putin, who was the president of the russian federation from 2000 to 2008, who won the election with more than 63% of the vote. the report of the international observers (osce) is worrying: serious shortcomings and many irregularities were noted. the european union is deeply concerned about the outcome of the elections, which were held in the context of the opaque parliamentary elections last december. indeed, this confirms the undemocratic tendency of the russian electoral system. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament calls on the russian authorities to investigate this latest missed election meeting. above all, we insisted on respect for freedom of expression and encouraged the kremlin to open dialogue with civil society as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution condemning the bloody crackdown on a social protest movement in kazakhstan last december and calling on the government to undertake more political reforms in the run-up to the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union.
in writing. in the same spirit of transmitting our democratic values to our neighbours, i voted in favour of a report on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan. this agreement should depend on the state of political reforms and human rights in the country and i actively encourage kazakhstan to strengthen the dialogue with the european union on these issues. our cooperation is conditional: economic cooperation will not take place without political cooperation. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution strongly condemning the recent terrorist attacks by islamists against christians in nigeria. in this resolution we also call for a better distribution of wealth which benefits only a minority of the population, 60% of the population living on less than a dollar a day!
in writing. nigeria's history is marked by tensions between muslims and christians. however, the chaos caused by boko haram is unprecedented. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which strongly condemns the recent violence, including the attacks by the islamist terrorists of boko haram and the tragic loss of life in the affected areas of nigeria. it is imperative that we seek peaceful means and that all communities try to engage in dialogue to end the violence. but the nigerian government also has a duty to promote inter-religious dialogue in order to ensure the safety and protection of its people and respect for human rights.
in writing. nigeria is a complex country both from a socio-economic point of view and from its geopolitical situation. although the country is the eighth largest oil producer in the world, a majority of its people live below the poverty line. the events of recent months with the increase in violence against religious communities, in particular the persecution of christians in the north of the country by the boko haram sect and the execution of european hostages on 8 march, called for a collective awareness. parliament therefore, echoing the high representative's statements, strongly condemned the violence and recalled that religious freedom is a fundamental and unquestionable right. however, the causes of his attacks cannot be reduced to interreligious or interethnic tensions. they are often the result of exploiting poverty and exploiting fear. the nigerian authorities are already taking many actions to combat insecurity and i welcome this. however, governance and development efforts, with the support of the eu, need to be stepped up to achieve stability in the north of the country. the conditions for security are inseparable from those for development.
in writing. already facing multiple social, economic, ethnic and religious challenges, nigeria has been experiencing weeks of intense violence perpetrated by the islamist terrorist group boko haram. targeting christians in particular in their fight for an "islamic regime", the group is held responsible for the deaths of over 900 people to date. in view of this situation, i am indignant and have voted in favour of this resolution in which we strongly condemn this violence, call for peaceful measures to resolve intercommunal disputes and stress the importance of respect for the principles of freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought. we also recall the need to monitor any possible rapprochement between boko haram and aqim, which, if proven, would be particularly harmful to the security and stability of the region. the union has appointed mrs ashton as its high representative for foreign affairs. it is high time that mrs ashton worked for the region, combining diplomacy and long-term development cooperation, to try to bring peace, security, good governance and respect for human rights back to nigeria.
in writing. on the sidelines of the 6th world water forum, we discussed water-related issues and called for sustainable solutions, including access to clean water. water is a vital resource but also a strategic one. only 2.5% of the water on earth can be used. water-related challenges (climate change, growing demand for energy and agricultural products, etc.) are not exclusive to developing countries. the water issue requires a global response.
in writing. i tabled the motion for a resolution on the world water forum, an event that brings together political, economic and associative actors concerned with water issues at the global level every three years. for me, access to water and sanitation is a critical issue because it's the health of billions of people that's at stake. first, despite progress, it is necessary to achieve all the un millennium development goals and the fight must continue, including to improve access to sanitation. secondly, water management by catchment areas and the problem of pollution at source must be addressed. finally, i would like to mention the idea of the 1% solidarity for water principle, which is being applied in france and which makes it possible to raise funds to improve access to water and sanitation in developing countries. following the adoption of this text by my colleagues in the european parliament, i presented the main lines of the text to the 35 000 participants in the world water forum on friday morning. the european union, the developed countries and humanitarian aid associations must now step up their efforts in terms of both financial and technical support.
in writing. in december 2010, i participated, alongside danielle mitterrand and some other meps, in the action of the collective "the water carriers": for water to be recognised as a common good of humanity but also for public water management. in the resolution we have just adopted, the european parliament, which is holding the world water forum in marseille these days, declares that water, a common good of mankind, must be accessible to all. access to drinking water and sanitation, but also the preservation of water resources and the guarantee of its quality, are all challenges we have to face and we find them in this text. what is not included is the need for public water management. in my view, water is far too precious and essential to the survival of both humans and ecosystems to be left to private interests. if in some respects, for certain uses, water can be considered a commodity, it is certainly not a commodity like any other! therefore, in terms of access to drinking water, water sanitation or keeping water affordable, water should be managed in a public way.
in writing. there is an urgent need for concrete commitments to promote and protect water resources. while access to clean water and sanitation was recognised as a human right by the un in 2010, water is becoming a geostrategic issue in some parts of the world, such as the middle east, china and latin america. we therefore call for greater consideration of access to drinking water in regional development policies. in europe too, access to water for all users must be ensured and decentralised action at regional and local level must be taken rapidly. parliament wanted to remind member states of their obligation under the water framework directive to achieve good water status by 2015. the dialogue and debate in marseille at the 6th world water forum should promote the establishment of 'water governance' and thus make it possible to make commitments at the global level at the rio+20 conference in brazil in june.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. water is a public good and access to it should be a universal fundamental right. each local authority must be able to choose the management method of its choice. on this subject, many strongly criticize the european union, its institutions and in particular the commission as responsible for privatizations, but it is necessary to recall that there is no mandatory european directive on the internal market as is the case in other public service networks. we will ensure that the european union does not embark on a policy of liberalisation but, on the contrary, guarantees the free democratic choice by each public authority of its methods of organisation and management.
in writing. access to water in sufficient quantity and quality is a major environmental, health and economic issue. this resolution encourages the development of actions to address some of the most crucial aspects of this issue. for that reason, of course, i voted in favour of this text. it advocates local as well as global solutions, as the issue concerns farmers in our developed countries as well as citizens in developing countries, and places this issue within the larger issue of climate change. it encourages major investment in research and development and the development of rational use of resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes concrete actions to address the challenges facing europe and the world in order to preserve water resources, ensure water quality and availability across the planet. i hope that the marseille forum, as our resolution calls for, will be a step towards making the use of water a right, which was not the case in istanbul in 2009, where only a "fundamental human need" was recognised. unsafe water kills more than 3.6 million people every year. we need to accelerate the implementation of major technological solutions: desalination of seawater, construction of large dams, public-private partnerships. the collection and development of water sources are now well-established techniques which must be rapidly implemented in conjunction with the local population.
in writing. this week the 6th world water forum was held in marseille, which was an opportunity to remind that water is a precious commodity for which we have a duty of responsibility. according to a study by who and unicef, 89 percent of the world's population will have access to safe water by 2010. this is a remarkable advance. yet, 2.5 billion people still lack access to safe water. water is a development issue, an ecological issue, and a health and food security issue in a context of population growth and climate change. more than ever, we need to put this issue at the heart of our policies and develop a comprehensive eu water strategy. we must make universal access to water by 2030 and make sanitation a priority by carrying out solidarity actions alongside developing countries. we need to develop sustainable water management by fighting waste, by investing in innovation and green technologies. there are many projects and ambitions. i now expect the conclusions of this strategic forum to be translated into concrete commitments at the rio conference in june.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the sixth world water forum, which is intended to contribute to the discussions held in marseille from 12 to 17 march. while water management has a direct impact on human health, solutions are needed to upgrade water infrastructure systems in developed countries and make them adequate in developing countries. water should not be a source of profit and access to it should be a fundamental and universal right. it is imperative if we are to make progress in the field of health, to invest in the protection of drinking water resources. we need to encourage research to develop innovative techniques in all water-related sectors and at the same time use water more rationally, more efficiently. we must now commit ourselves to a long-term policy.
in writing. water is a precious but scarce resource. yet, he is the source of all life. we must fight to preserve it for future generations. i would like to welcome the initiative taken by france to host this world forum. because of course the dialogue must be opened up at the global level. only by calling on governments to take more responsibility for the day-to-day management of water can we avoid a disaster that would cost us dearly. that is the meaning of my vote in favour of this text. but beyond conservation, i want to make it clear that water supply is another major problem. it is the cause of many diplomatic tensions, territorial disputes and even, unfortunately, sometimes armed conflicts. in the collective consciousness, water needs to be given the same recognition as climate change. i'm sure you do.
in writing. water is a human right, and access to water is fundamental. climate change may lead to a decline in the quantity and quality of available water, including drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts. the european parliament resolution calls for water to be used more efficiently, particularly in the sectors which consume the most water, such as agriculture. the resolution therefore reinforces the need for concrete commitments to promote and protect water resources, particularly in the run-up to the next rio+20 conference; i am therefore voting in favour of this resolution, even though the world water forum is taking place in marseille this week.
in writing. deforestation, population growth and climate change are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of water resources, and water infrastructure systems are often inadequate in developing countries and obsolete in developed countries. the 6th world water forum - a unique platform where water specialists and policy makers from around the world worked on developing solutions to achieve water security - was a pivotal event, and i welcome the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament. the text recognizes - and i strongly supported this idea when i voted - water as a common good of mankind. it should not be a source of illicit profit: access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. we also call on the commission and the member states to increase their commitment to the full achievement of the millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation. finally, we need to increase public and private investment in research and development in all water-related sectors.
in writing. our water consumption is constantly increasing. today, it takes 11,000 litres of water to make a pair of jeans and 15,000 litres of water to make a kilo of beef. water, we tend to forget, is the root of everything. and as the world's population increases in the future, it will become an even more valuable possession. in some parts of the world, it is considered impossible to satisfy a basic need such as drinking. the terrible drought that struck the horn of africa last year, forcing women and children to make a real exodus, reminds us of the urgency of global coordination to meet this challenge. in my constituency we also feel the need to preserve this gift of nature better. the water stress faced by our farmers, the pollution of rivers and coastal areas are issues that the eu must address. this is a global, european, national and local issue. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which proposes solutions taking into account the different scales of the water management challenge and which will feed into the discussions to be held at the world water forum in marseille.
author. - madam president, there are indeed countries which attract less media attention and thus less public attention than others, and this is the case in bahrain. yet in the wake of the tunisian revolution, the bahraini people have also risen up. but there too the revolution was met with bloody repression and this repression was carried out with the support of the saudi army, which we would have liked to see condemned more strongly, and not only denounced by the european parliament. i do not share the optimism of some of my colleagues. beyond the promises, the repression is still there. she was still there on 14 february last, during the great demonstration commemorating the first anniversary of the popular uprising. journalists, human rights defenders, trade unionists, and many others are still being dragged into court, including doctors who dared to treat protesters, as well as ordinary citizens who dared to speak to journalists. thousands of people have been fired for participating in the protests and are still not re-employed. hundreds of students are still unable to continue their studies and, to my knowledge, the bahraini government is still asking for the postponement of the visit of the un rapporteur. it must be said that the bahraini government feels strongly supported by the presence of the us fifth fleet and by arms agreements with some european countries, including the united kingdom. in particular, some european states provide training for riot police forces in this government; as a french woman, it brings back bad memories. we can welcome the fact that the united states has suspended its arms exports and we could urge the british government to do the same. yes, it is time to put pressure on european companies which have laid off workers and have still not re-employed them. in my view, this resolution falls far short of what bahrainis can expect from the european union. the european union which continues to proclaim that it is a defender of human rights and democracy and does little to put them into practice.
in writing. bahrain will have been the poor relative of the arab spring. just a year ago, when the opposition tried to rise up against the monarchy, the neighbouring states gave their help to the government and suppressed the protest (several dozen deaths). political and social reforms have been promised but, so far, no significant progress has been made. in order to prevent the police and the population from coming into conflict again, it is urgent to speed up the process of democratization of the state. above all, it is essential that the political scene should gradually open up to different trends and that multiparty systems should be established. in this respect, the release of political prisoners is a priority which we wanted to stress in our emergency resolution. no progress will be made until the government sheds light on the violence against civilians in 2011. parliament also called on bahrain to submit as soon as possible to the inquiry procedures of the un human rights council.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i really welcome this report and i also congratulate its rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, who has done an extremely inclusive job. i consider this report as a call for and support for democratic reforms and the protection of fundamental freedoms in turkey. i believe that his message is extremely clear and precise and that it is addressed, of course, to the authorities, but also to all political actors and to civil society actors, so that they may commit themselves further to the deepening of the democratic state in turkey. the report does not fail to express our deep concern at the way in which the law against terrorism is being applied, which directly threatens the right to freedom of expression, opinion, demonstration and the freedom of the press, and we call for a change in this law, in particular articles 6 and 7. we also support and call for a thorough reform of the judicial system: it is essential that citizens - all citizens in turkey - can have confidence in an efficient, impartial and independent judicial system and we support all reforms that go in this direction. we also address the kurdish question and make it clear that education in the mother tongue would be a perfectly adequate proposal to respond politically to the kurdish question and not just in a security way. i believe that these strong messages are all the more credible because we are also not complacent about the demands we are making on the council, in particular to achieve real coherence and so that, finally, the european union can regain its capacity as a reference point for reforms in turkey, and its capacity as a lever to promote them. we ask that all arrangements be made to open chapters 23 and 24. the demand for visas is also clear: we need a road map for visa liberalization, because this situation of a country in the process of joining the european union is quite unique and therefore quite discriminatory. we want these key messages to be heard in turkey and i would not want the audience of this excellent report and its importance in the light of the current situation in turkey to be diminished or diverted by statements that are questionable. what is the point of this reference to the centuries-old integrity of the army? we welcome the immense work that has been done in turkey over the past few years to bring the army back into its proper place under the control of the civilian authorities and to bring military expenditure under the control of the court of auditors. what does this have to do with the age-old integrity of an army which has served nato since 1952, which is one of its largest armies and whose presence in nato would be made conditional on this age-old integrity? we know what the army of a secular and secular state is. that is what we want for turkey and i believe we must together erase these words. as regards the ergenekon trial - and i end by saying this - it is not serious to cast doubt on all the cases of the ergenekon trial, because we know - and the european court of human rights reiterated this in a judgment in december - that there are cases in which arrests on charges of crimes or criminal acts are considered to be founded by the european court of human rights. we cannot afford to throw off suspicion and disqualify all cases involved in the ergenekon trial. my opinion is that if we remove these two references, we will have a maximum audience - and this is very important - in turkey, in the whole of society, in all components of its political and social field. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i regret the procedural delays which have accumulated in this matter, but i would like to welcome the adoption of this european resettlement programme today. a common programme, which i hope, we all hope, will strengthen the participation of member states in the global resettlement effort, not forgetting that resettlement has a global dimension, and also improve the quality of the identification, reception and integration procedures that are put in place. it is also a programme which ensures that the use of the european refugee fund is not definitively compromised, even though the time is short now. finally, it is a programme which will ensure that the european union is no longer almost absent in the face of a humanitarian crisis, as was the case with the reception of refugees from libya. but i'd say a word later. that said, it is also time to look ahead, to the future. the time for grand declarations is over. we must now give substance to this european resettlement programme and consider how we can work together in practice with the member states and other major stakeholders in resettlement activities. i would like to welcome an existing programme in this respect: the pilot project on resettlement launched at the initiative of the european parliament, which, in a very innovative way and on the basis of exchanges of experience, makes it possible to develop a european network for the resettlement of cities and regions. although national authorities are responsible for the selection of refugees to be settled, regional and local authorities play a decisive role in the reception and integration of refugees once they have arrived. the success of national resettlement programmes also depends heavily on the commitment, capacity and partnerships of cities, municipalities and regions. another issue that we need to act on in practice is the full and effective implementation of resettlement programmes. indeed, according to our information, there has been a significant decrease in the actual departures of refugees accepted for resettlement, and this trend is due to very thorough security checks and various problems in the management of resettlement procedures. it should therefore be remembered in this context that many states also use the saturation of their reception capacity as a reason for abandoning a resettlement policy. it should therefore be recalled once again that these national or transnational projects have, on the contrary, made it possible to offer reception and integration conditions to the resettled and that this in some way relieves the reception arrangements and allows a quick access of the resettled to autonomy. i would like to take advantage of the 20 seconds i have left, mr president, to return to what mr díaz de mera and mr busuttil were saying, who have unfortunately left the chamber. i was also in choucha for the record, we are not talking about a programme, we are not talking about money, we are talking about human beings we were in choucha a few weeks ago and unfortunately i am willing to bet that the people who were there, many of them, are still there, which is obvious evidence but mrs malmström knows that there is still a lot to be done on the conditions for offers to be made to accommodate people who really need them.
mr president, i shall simply comment on paragraph 16 of mr vaughan's report. we learn that there are european political parties which would undermine the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i am very surprised that in a parliament like this, which is so attached to a fundamental right - the right to a fair defence - such a solemn judgment could be passed without hearing those against whom such a serious accusation is made. secondly, i thought that maybe this was about - i don't know - the communist parties, which have enslaved half of europe for half a century. but i was told - by an indiscretion - that it was the organization i was president of that was targeted. in conclusion, i would say that we respect freedom, but the freedom of the peoples. we are democrats and we would not have renewed, in the form of a treaty ratified by parliament, a constitution rejected by the people. we respect human rights, fundamental freedoms - including freedom of expression - and the rule of law, which presupposes equality between all parliamentarians and the citizens who elected them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, the committee on the internal market was also asked for its opinion and wanted to contribute to this reflection on the definition of more responsible corporate governance, which promotes sustainable growth in the internal market, at the service of the real economy. we have therefore set out a number of priorities and recommendations, of which i would like to mention three. the first is a strong recommendation by the committee on the internal market on the issue of occupational and social diversity on company boards. this concern is reflected in the bodu report, which stresses that boards should include independent people with a diverse range of qualifications, experience and backgrounds. we insist, we really insisted at inco, on the diversity of both professional and personal paths. another priority for our committee is that there should be balanced european proposals for the disclosure of information to shareholders in the annual reports. we insist on the imperative of transparency. the last recommendation is, of course, the principle of parity and equal treatment. we are pleased that, as a result of the discussion on this report, real progress can be made in the representation of women in the introduction of quotas.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my colleague mr de castro, who chairs the committee on agriculture and rural development, and i, as chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, wanted to raise this point again in the plenary, including in the light of the first statements made on behalf of the whole college of commissioners on 15 february, that the commission intended to use its monopoly of initiative to put a proposal back on the negotiating table to finance this programme in the next financial perspective. you will have the full support of this parliament for such an initiative, as you know, but we ask you to go further, because we believe that this programme cannot be held hostage by the intergovernmental negotiations on the common agricultural policy, nor can it follow the court's judgments to the letter without the legislative initiative taking over. we therefore ask that this programme be a genuine solidarity programme, that is to say that it should not be a burden on the budget of the european social fund. otherwise we would be organising, as i have said before, and i repeat, solidarity of the poor with the poor. but that is not what we need. finally, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to one point: many in this parliament do not support macroeconomic conditionality - you will not have our support on this - but rather thematic conditionality, thematic concentration. the europe 2020 strategy includes an objective to combat poverty and social exclusion. it fully justifies the funding of such a fund for the poor from the union budget. we ask you to work towards this, including convincing those member states which do not want it. instead of relying on a piece of paper, convince them, use your monopoly of initiative to get them to move.
mr president, commissioner, in its proposal for a general regulation on the structural funds, the european commission has set aside a budget of eur 2.5 billion for a future instrument of food aid for the poorest for the period 2014-2020, despite the fierce opposition of a minority of member states in the council. this is a courageous decision on the part of the commission, which is in line with the wishes of the european parliament and, above all, the majority of our fellow citizens, at a time when more and more people are turning to the assistance offered by food banks throughout europe, as a result of the worsening social crisis. it's brave, but not enough. the pead now amounts to just €500 million a year. however, by proposing a budget of 2.5 billion for seven years, the commission has consciously reduced this budget by one billion euros, although the demands are increasing. we are also not aware of the commission's intentions with regard to the future programme. if these funds are allocated under the esf, it seems difficult, because of the way the esf is managed, to continue to buy foodstuffs from agricultural markets to distribute to the poorest, especially since this practice has already been condemned by the court of justice. however, if no solution is found, food banks will find themselves in a situation from which they have so far escaped. what are you really going to do? i think that we need to maintain a large budget for this programme, to ensure that everyone and every one of us, especially the poorest, has the right to healthy food at an affordable price and finally to put in place a real safety net and a real framework directive on minimum income.
mr president, commissioner, i regret that you have not announced anything concrete, anything very specific. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. if you put two and a half billion euros into a multiannual programme for this sector, it will mean, whether we like it or not, a reduction of 100 million euros in the amount allocated each year to food aid. in these circumstances, we cannot accept this situation. i therefore propose that we, the commission and the european parliament, perhaps together with the committee on employment and social affairs, take the initiative of a hearing, a joint meeting with solidarity organizations in europe to really assess the needs, quantify what this means and look together for a proposal that we can debate with all its legal modalities.
in writing. european solidarity has finally come to the fore. what a waste of energy! we are moving towards a social europe. today, more than a matter of course, it is a necessity. we have a moral duty to make aid to the most deprived a lasting one. there's no way i can imagine otherwise. this is not the europe i signed up for. our fellow citizens have faith in europe. we must offer them a europe that works for them and protects them. i sincerely hope that the selfishness that some of our closest friends have proudly displayed has not destroyed their hopes for a better future. because we can only succeed together.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and our assistants for the work they have done. the report now bears its name very well, because it aims to remove the obstacles to citizenship. europe is a great project, but it is too often said that it is not yet perfectly defined. take, for example, the economic crisis. it has exposed our weaknesses and allowed us to build more solidly the regulatory institutions of our single market. the same applies to the european citizen. the committee on petitions, a veritable complaints office, records the complaints of our fellow citizens every day. in three days' time, the european citizens' initiative will complete this system. despite all our policies calling for mobility, membership, european values, and exchange, there are still far too many obstacles to citizenship. and a citizen who does not feel european is a citizen who will not vote. he is a citizen who will not see the interest that europe represents in his daily life. with my colleagues in the group of the european people's party we have made a great many proposals, the most numerous, and i would like to thank them for that. it is a relationship which must produce a sense of belonging and european identity which we must recreate and maintain through these measures. our europe must be a europe that protects. commissioner viviane reding made 25 very concrete proposals for the benefit of the citizens. they are essential to rebuilding trust between the citizen and europe. but the proposals in this report reflect other expectations of our citizens: online shopping, moving, children's rights, employment, citizen participation, care abroad, twinning, minority rights, etc. we are still having too much trouble taking full advantage of the capacities offered by europe. rights are used, demands are heard. we're the ones who are here. the european year of citizenship in 2013 should demonstrate to citizens that free movement also means the free exercise of rights in europe.
mr president, i would like to speak on behalf of the french delegation which i have the honour of chairing on recital i. i read the text which speaks of the expulsion of the roma by france and i would like to point out that it is inaccurate and that in fact some citizens were expelled from private land at the request of the owners and that, once they were on public land, they were voluntarily offered to return to their home state. that is the truth and i regret that in a report of such high quality - i thank the rapporteur for our group, philippe boulland - such a wounding inaccuracy could have been written.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which provides for the revision of the statutes of the international rubber study group (irg) and recognises the importance of this organisation. the aim is to reinvigorate cooperation between producing and importing countries. as the rapporteur recalls, the iceg is an intergovernmental organisation set up in 1944 in the united kingdom, whose headquarters were moved to singapore in 2008. it provides a forum for discussion between the rubber producing and consuming countries on all aspects of the supply chain. this structure provides data on the world market and encourages cooperation between its members. apart from the european union, nine countries are currently contributing members, including the republic of cameroon, côte d'ivoire, india, japan, malaysia, nigeria, the russian federation, singapore and sri lanka. some 120 industry representatives are members through a panel of partners. in recent years, as high price increases and considerable volatility have affected certain raw materials, including natural rubber, i felt it necessary to reaffirm this international cooperation.
in writing. the european union is a member of the international rubber study group, in accordance with council decision 2002/651 of 22 july 2002. on 14 july 2011, following several rounds of negotiations, the heads of delegation of the international group approved the text amending its statutes and rules of procedure. the adoption of the moreira report made it possible to approve these new statutes and internal rules, which were a prerequisite for confirming the group's establishment in its new headquarters, budgetary contributions and decision-making procedures.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the taylor report which calls for clarification of air passenger rights. airlines have a duty to provide information and assistance in the event of a long delay and cancellation of flights. they are also called upon to make their pricing practices more transparent and to indicate the environmental impact of travel on the air ticket.
in writing. we have put in place, several years ago, european legislation that regulates the practices of airlines and protects us from their abuses. yet our rights as air passengers continue to be regularly violated, and that is why i supported my colleague keith taylor's report. the rights of air passengers in the event of delays, cancellations and overbookings must be respected, and we had to be the spokesmen of the citizens on these issues. the rules will be more precise, in particular as regards the notion of 'extraordinary circumstances' and 'cancellation'. this inaccuracy is the margin of manoeuvre which still allows airlines to mislabel a plane that takes off 24 hours after its scheduled time as "delayed" in order not to compensate the passenger. i also supported the idea that a blacklist of abusive clauses should be drawn up, for example, the non-transferability of tickets, or the prohibition on using only the return leg of a return ticket.
in writing. strengthening air passenger rights: that's what the eu is for! the union has been working for several years to improve travellers' rights, but there is still work to be done. this is particularly the case when passengers are stuck and delayed: informing, assisting, simplifying the claim, compensating, these are the obligations of the carriers. another problem is the rules on carry-on luggage: today, everyone has his own weight and size criteria, and travellers have a very hard time finding their way around. the rules must therefore be harmonised to make them more transparent. finally, more flexibility in booking with wider possibilities for cancellation and amendment seems essential. in short, in this resolution we make the diagnosis and call for action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes to standardise and strengthen european legislation on air passenger rights. it will provide passengers with better information on prices, clarify the criteria for compensation in the event of lost or delayed baggage and protect them against unfair commercial practices they face today, such as extra charges when booking online, unilateral re-organisation of flights or tariff discrimination based on country of residence. i fought for the adoption of these measures. passengers must not be left behind in the tremendous development of the aviation sector and i believe that all the players have understood this. i will ensure that my proposals are incorporated into future legislation.
in writing. flights cancelled, lost luggage, delays, overbooking and so on these are all problems which are not adequately addressed by the current regulations. it was therefore necessary to define a new framework and new instruments to guarantee the rights of air passengers in all circumstances. this has now been done with this resolution, which above all offers more transparency. transparency on information in case of delayed or cancelled flights, but also transparency on prices announced by airlines. this need for clarity was accompanied by an imperative to improve passenger assistance. the resolution also states that passengers in difficulty should be able to contact contact staff directly who can offer a solution and immediate response. the text also considers that if a baggage is delayed for more than six hours, compensation proportionate to the passenger's needs should be offered to the passenger so that he can support himself while waiting for his baggage to arrive. the resolution also stresses that people with reduced mobility should have easier access to aircraft.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is a positive step forward in the protection of the rights of air transport users. it is necessary to strengthen their legal certainty, to provide sufficient and simple remedies and to provide accurate information to passengers. but the measures which will be applied in the near future must not be used to add unjustified and excessive costs to the current tariffs at the expense of consumers.
in writing. the european parliament adopted, on thursday 29 march, by a large majority, the report on the operation and application of the established rights of persons travelling by air. this report proposes concrete measures for air passengers which should influence the copy presented by the european commission in 2013 when it reviews the legislation on air passenger rights. in the face of repeated delays and lack of information, parliament has made recommendations which ensure that passengers' rights are fully respected. among its demands, parliament called for better information for passengers, with the presence of a contact person for each airline at airports, price transparency, the fight against the proliferation of unfair terms, clarification of the criteria for compensating passengers and improved care for people with reduced mobility.
in writing. the taylor report on the rules protecting air passengers was adopted by 509 votes to 20, with 53 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the report first deals with the common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of a flight. it also deals with the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air. it also recognises the need to strengthen legal certainty, improve clarity of interpretation and harmonise the application of regulations throughout the european union. the report also calls for greater accountability and transparency, and for consumer rights to be clarified and strengthened by ensuring that consumers are well informed. once again the european parliament is coming to the rescue of air passengers!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the operation and application of the acquired rights of air transport users, in order to lay the foundations for future common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of a flight, and on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air. we want airlines to offer all passengers the possibility of submitting a written complaint in an immediate, simple, accessible and free of charge manner, in addition to the possibility of submitting a complaint by other electronic means. it is also necessary to ensure that passengers have complete, comprehensible and accessible information, including on co2 emissions.
in writing. air traffic is expanding rapidly in europe with the development of competition in the sector, the creation of shorter routes and the decline in ticket prices. but these low prices cannot justify the violation of passenger rights. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which i have been particularly involved in, and which sets out our requirements for the revision of the rules for the protection of passengers. as a result of this vote, i expect the commission to guarantee the right to board with purchases made at airports without excessive charges. i believe that restrictive commercial practices in this area are a historic setback for passengers and create a form of unfair competition for duty-free on the ground. i also want the commission to make us concrete proposals to control the practice of overbooking which leaves thousands of passengers waiting every year. it is imperative to reconcile this technique of filling up aircraft with the provision of the service under the conditions laid down at the time of purchase of the ticket, which is the most basic right!
in writing. i have approved the new european programme for the resettlement of refugees from third countries, which will give more resources to member states wishing to take in refugees fleeing war, famine or persecution. i have supported this programme which, in cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees, aims to strengthen the role of the european union in terms of international protection. in 2013, priority will be given to iraqi refugees in turkey, syria, lebanon and jordan, afghan refugees in turkey, pakistan and iran, congolese refugees in burundi, malawi, rwanda and zambia, somali refugees in ethiopia, burmese refugees in bangladesh, malaysia and thailand, and eritrean refugees in eastern sudan. the europe i stand for is also the europe that protects the vulnerable, children and women at risk, unaccompanied minors and people with special medical needs.
in writing. managing migration flows is one of the great challenges of our time. as the european union struggles to build a common migration policy that is progressive and ambitious, i welcome the adoption of a new common programme for the resettlement of refugees. according to figures from the united nations high commissioner for refugees, 200,000 people are forced to leave their country each year. it is our responsibility to support them. the new programme strengthens the eu's role in international protection and encourages member states to increase their efforts to resettle refugees and to focus on the most vulnerable groups such as women and children. thirteen european countries have so far established resettlement programmes. finally, the adoption of this new programme will mean that european countries will receive more substantial financial support from the european union to welcome refugees to their territory, through the european refugee fund, which was set up in 2000.
in writing. in the negotiations with the council, parliament succeeded in securing several key points: explicit mention of regional protection programmes, in particular the 'visibility of north africa', the addition of 'survivors of torture' to the category of vulnerable persons and a reference to refugees from iraq. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement at second reading. moreover, negotiations on this text have been going on for almost two years, and its purpose is to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund in the light of the establishment of a common european resettlement programme: a situation which is no longer acceptable, in view of the thousands of refugees who could benefit from this programme and for whom resettlement is the only viable and safe solution, as these people are often in a very vulnerable situation. the european union must step up its resettlement efforts to provide protection to refugees and to maximise the impact of resettlement by targeting those in need as much as possible, within the framework of common priorities defined at eu level.
in writing. i supported the tavares report, which sought to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund, in view of the establishment of a common european resettlement programme. resettlement is the transfer of refugees from a first third country of asylum to a member state of the european union where they could enjoy permanent protection. the tavarez report calls for financial aid for member states carrying out resettlement and for a list of priority refugees to be drawn up.
in writing. this new programme, by providing financial support for the resettlement of refugees, and in particular for those resettled by member states participating for the first time in the programme, is helping to encourage more countries to show solidarity. only ten member states, including france, are currently participating in the programme, which is still not enough. resettlement programmes are necessary: they allow a refugee who cannot return to his country of origin or remain in the country that has granted him international protection to be welcomed in a country where he will not risk his life. in addition, the new framework makes it possible to identify vulnerable persons such as unaccompanied minors or victims of torture who require special attention.
in writing. i have approved the new eu rules on exports of dual-use goods, both civilian and military, such as chemicals, telecommunications equipment and software. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. today, with our vote, we oppose the export of these technologies which could be used for purposes which are harmful to human rights when exported to countries ruled by authoritarian regimes. finally, the list of dual-use items requiring authorisation for export to other countries has been updated.
in writing. i supported this recommendation, which aims to further limit the risk of sensitive dual-use goods being used for military purposes and/or in proliferation programmes, while ensuring that legitimate trade is not impeded.
in writing. i have given my approval to the new regulation of otc derivatives. in the context of the economic crisis, i think it is essential to moralize our economy. as far as otc contracts are concerned, unlike stock exchange transactions, operations are often less standardised, less standardised, in a more flexible regulatory framework. i therefore approved this regulation on european market infrastructures, which requires traders to report all derivative transactions to central repositories within 24 hours of the transaction. however, as an active advocate of small and mediumsized enterprises, the heart of our economic fabric, i felt it was important to protect them. the clearing requirement was suspended in particular for development banks, cooperative banks, small banks, pension funds, eu rescue funds and transactions between members of the same group of companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the regulation of derivatives in order to achieve more transparency in this market, the opacity of which was widely questioned in the financial crisis that hit the world in 2008. this legislation will make it possible to reference all derivative contracts to databases monitored by the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. after 18 long months of negotiations with the council, parliament was finally able to give its consent to the new regulation on over-the-counter derivatives. traders will now be required to clear these contracts via ccps and to report all derivatives, even those not traded over-the-counter. in addition, the powers of the european securities and markets authority (esma) to intervene in the settlement of disputes between national regulators have been increased. these decisions were made necessary to improve the transparency of financial markets, as derivatives had greatly aggravated market volatility during the 2008 crisis. however, this is only the first step in the regulation of the financial sector: others, which could not be supported by parliament because of the council's opposition, will have to be taken in the future, in particular with regard to strengthening the role of esma.
in writing. i supported the report by our colleague werner langen on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on otc derivatives, central counterparties and central securities depositories. the european parliament, in support of the agreement reached with the council, adopted new european regulations strictly regulating highly sophisticated financial products, which are part of a policy of combating the excesses of financial capitalism and speculation, which the european union is pursuing relentlessly, and which are in line with the g20 guidelines, particularly those adopted in pittsburgh and subsequently reaffirmed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague e. morin chartier which calls for an extension of the transposition deadline for the 2004 directive, which expires on 30 april 2012. this directive lays down minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks arising from exposure to electromagnetic fields. a new directive is planned to improve the safety and health of workers. however, the issue of exposure limit values should be set in a proportionate manner and should not constitute an obstacle to the use of medical techniques such as mri. therefore, an additional transposition period was requested in order to have the necessary time to debate it.
in writing. the deadline for transposing the 2004 directive on the introduction of measures to protect workers from the risks related to exposure to electromagnetic fields was 30 april 2012. it is very difficult to transpose this text into our national legislation, especially when it comes to the medical community. the maximum exposure values included in this directive could unduly limit the use and development of medical applications using magnetic resonance imaging, which is considered an essential tool for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. i therefore supported the decision to delay by 18 months the transposition deadline for the directive on the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but our aim remains to have new legislation before 2014 that will take into account the specificities of the different sectors of activity.
in writing. today we voted not on the substance of the matter but on the question of the date of transposition. the directive laying down minimum safety and health standards for workers exposed to the risks arising from electromagnetic fields was adopted in 2004. its transposition has presented many problems in some member states, with the result that the deadline for transposition has already been postponed once. it appeared that the exposure limit values set by the directive were likely to disproportionately restrict the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) technology. the european commission has therefore planned to carry out a thorough impact assessment and wishes to postpone the transposition deadline once again. it proposed 20 april 2014, but we decided, first in the empl committee and then in plenary today, to set the date at 31 october 2013 so as not to let this unsatisfactory situation continue for too long.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending the deadline for transposing directive 2004/40/ec on minimum safety and health requirements. i think it is necessary to extend the transposition period by 18 months in order to find appropriate answers to the questions raised by the draft new directive. the report shows that this is a technical matter which requires time to be dealt with properly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the exposure of workers to electromagnetic fields because it proposes to grant an additional period of time before the limit values defined by the european union are put in place. these exposure limits, according to the medical community, could hinder the use and development of medical imaging techniques (such as mri), which are now essential for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. this will allow further discussions with the experts to find the right balance for the protection of workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to shorten the time limit for transposing directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). the transposition should take place before 31 october 2013, instead of the date of 30 april 2014 initially planned. the aim is to minimise the risks to workers' health arising from the short-term adverse effects of occupational exposure to electromagnetic fields. no worker may be exposed to field values above these limits, which are based on health effects and biological considerations. these values are directly measurable and correspond to thresholds at which the employer must take one or more of the measures provided for in the directive.
in writing. the european parliament, meeting in brussels, has just approved an extension of eighteen months to the transposition deadline for the directive on the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. as the transposition deadline expired on 30 april 2012, parliament, alerted by the medical community that the maximum exposure values imposed by the directive were unduly restrictive to the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) techniques, decided to extend the deadline in order to continue consultations and allow the most appropriate decision to be taken. the challenge will be to strike a balance between the protection of workers and the effective monitoring of patients in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases.
in writing. the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields is the subject of two reports in parliament. the first report concerns the revision of directive 2004/40/ec on the fixing of maximum exposure values for workers to electromagnetic fields. the second report, which we adopted today, deals with the reduction in the time limit for transposing the same directive. the objective is to postpone the deadline from 30 april 2012 to 31 october 2013 in order to allow for a proper review. the 2004 directive has not been transposed in all member states because the maximum exposure values are disproportionate and would have unduly restricted the use and development of medical applications using magnetic resonance imaging, such as mri. mri is an essential tool in the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. the report by elisabeth morin-chartier was adopted by 610 votes in favour, which i welcome. as rapporteur for the opinion of the envi commission, i call on the member states to take stock of the impasse in which the medical community could find itself if mri technologies were not exempted from the exposure limit values recommended by the commission in its proposal for a directive.
in writing. in 2004, the eu adopted a legal framework for cooperation on excise duties. excise duties are indirect taxes on the consumption of specific products (alcoholic beverages, manufactured tobacco and energy products). it is now necessary to review the provisions of the 2004 regulation to take account of the introduction of the 'computerised system for the movement of excise goods'. the casa report, which i supported, calls for the establishment of a forum on vat and excise duties, so that european companies can debate the issue and express their differences.
in writing. you know how important the harmonization of the internal market is to me. i therefore naturally voted in favour of the new administrative cooperation rules which should enable the member states to speed up the collection and recovery of excise duties on products such as alcohol, tobacco and energy products and to improve the control of their revenues. the aim is to make the exchange of information automatic by using a standardised form, and thus to simplify the procedures for many of our fellow citizens who market these products every day.
in writing. the use of new computer systems for the control of products subject to excise duty required the revision of regulation (ec) no 2073/2004. i therefore voted in favour of the casa report. i have always supported proposals to encourage the exchange of information between member states. this is a necessary prerequisite for the creation of a budgetary union. the fight against tax evasion and fraud and measures relating to vat must be the subject of a common approach. i take note of the request to the commission for a report on fraud in the field of excise duties.
in writing. it was necessary to review the provisions of regulation no 2073/2004 on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties to take account of the introduction of the information system on movements and controls of excisable products, the emcs. this rather technical report broadly endorses the original proposal put forward by the commission. i supported the report by my colleague david casa. it was adopted by a large majority, with 584 votes in favour, 39 against and 32 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vaughan report which provides for a freeze of parliament's 2013 budget in real terms. in addition to a responsible budget, we want political parties which do not respect democratic principles to be excluded from parliament's funding.
in writing. in this time of crisis, it seems to me that monitoring the expenditure of the institutions, including that of the european parliament, is a natural attitude. i therefore voted in favour of freezing the european parliament's budget for next year in real terms. in addition, as you know, croatia will join the european union on 1 july 2013, so we will welcome new members and the budget is adjusted accordingly. finally, parliament recalled its principles and values, stressing that parliamentary funding should be granted only to parties which strictly respect the democratic principles on which the european union is founded and the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. the 2013 budget freeze is a minimum. in all european countries we are trying to reduce expenditure to reduce public debts. we are voting today in favour of this, even though the effort remains modest, i agree, to freeze our budget in 2013. we will continue to look for savings to increase the rationalisation effort in the coming months. we also remain vigilant in defending the great democratic principles in this troubled period, so that political parties which do not respect the basic principles of freedom, the rule of law and democracy cannot receive funding from the institution: again, this is a minimum.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vaughan report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the european parliament for the financial year 2013. i regret, however, that the original version of paragraph 2 has been retained, which calls for a single workplace for members and officials of the european parliament. the report deliberately avoids specifying which city should become the single place of work of the european parliament, which creates confusion. i also regret the lack of clarity on the part of some journalists who have said that members want to move their parliament to brussels. i would like to remind you that strasbourg is the only seat of the european parliament recognised by the treaty. this siege must be maintained in the alsatian capital, a symbol of the reconciliation of the european nations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which freezes the european parliament's operating budget for the financial year 2013. the european institutions must also take part in the budgetary discipline efforts undertaken by our heads of state, at a time when our fellow citizens have been hit hard by the crisis and are still suffering the consequences of unemployment and low growth in europe. it is all of us who must band together to get through this difficult time.
in writing. while the debate on the general budget of the european union for 2013 is already proving tense between parliament and the council, we meps are in the process of drawing up our institution's next operating budget. aware of budgetary constraints, we estimated the evolution of our financing needs at + 1,9% compared to 2012, i.e. an increase below inflation. certain expenditure items will be frozen to meet this objective, such as members' allowances, transport costs, etc. other avenues will have to be studied closely to avoid any slippage: this is the case of the costs of maintaining the buildings, or those necessary for the creation of the house of european history. during the year we will have to be more vigilant about certain additional appropriations that are needed, such as those relating to the accession of croatia, which are not yet included in the budget forecasts. parliament must set an example in drawing up its budget, so that it can exercise its democratically vested powers fully while keeping its expenditure within reasonable limits.
in writing. i voted against the vaughan report on the draft budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2013. i fully support the measures and guidelines contained in this report, such as the freezing in real terms of the budget of our parliament, the freezing of members' allowances, the cuts in the travel budget, the many savings made, etc. this report contains three clearly anti-strasbourg provisions/paragraphs. that is why i voted against him. the debate and the attacks on the location of the european parliament's seat are coming up more and more regularly, and i am paying close attention to them. it was a symbolic issue for a long time, but today it is above all a legal and political issue. i remain firmly committed to this ongoing fight to maintain the seat of the european parliament in our beautiful european capital.
in writing. once again, a number of meps chose to revive the debate on the single seat of the european parliament when voting on the report on the parliament's 2013 revenue and expenditure forecast. if that is their ambition, then let's talk about it! i therefore invite them to read over the treaties governing our institutional system: the official seat of the european parliament is in strasbourg and if, for convenience, we have transferred some of our activities to brussels and luxembourg, we will not be able to discuss the legal basis on which we are united. strasbourg is above all a symbolic reference point, the will of the founding fathers to erase the stigmas of war and to bring france and germany closer together around common ambitions. i am surprised today at the persistence of some of my more recent colleagues in wanting to challenge this symbol of europe, even though by joining the community and then the european union, the nations they represent have recognized in their entirety the principles and symbols which unite citizens around the european project.
in writing. the vaughan report was adopted by 548 votes to 69. it marks the beginning of the budgetary procedure for the european parliament, which, like the other institutions, must draw up a statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure for its 2013 budget. the commission will use this estimate as a basis for presenting its draft budget for 2013 in april.
in writing. i wish to abstain on the report by our colleague mr vaughan on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013 in that it takes a position, on three occasions and in an ambiguous way, against the maintenance of the current situation prevailing in the organisation of the european parliament: 3 workplaces and one seat. it should be recalled that, under protocol no 6 to the treaty on the establishment of the seats of the institutions and of certain bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, the european parliament has its seat in strasbourg. i did not want to endorse the vague guidelines in the vaughan report which could call into question the european parliament's seat in strasbourg, so i abstained.
in writing. in order to effectively support the european parliament's seat in strasbourg, i voted against paragraph 2 which calls for the parliament's workplaces to be 'limited to a single seat for members and officials'. the treaty states that 'the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg, where the 12 periods of monthly plenary sessions, including the budget session, shall be held. additional plenary sessions shall be held in brussels. the european parliament's committees sit in brussels. the general secretariat of the european parliament and its departments shall remain in luxembourg.' moreover, the official figures for the annual cost of the parliament's seat in strasbourg have recently been published and are far below previously estimated figures. they amounted to eur 51.5 million in 2010. finally, i am pleased to note that the energy consumption of parliament's seat in strasbourg has fallen by 74% between 2006 and 2010. these are the reasons why i support the seat of parliament in strasbourg.
in writing. for the second time in a few weeks, a majority of meps voted in favour of a single seat for the european parliament, and therefore in fact against the strasbourg seat. i deeply regret that once again this subject has been introduced almost in a whisper, by way of a report on another subject. this time it is through the budget of the european parliament, citing the need to save money. the change in the seat of the european parliament, which is enshrined in the european treaties, deserves a real debate, which will allow us to consider all the consequences of such a decision and take account of the complex historical circumstances which have made strasbourg the seat of the only european institution whose members are directly elected by the citizens of the member states. for the rest of the budget, the european parliament's priorities for 2013 are a few proposals for freezing various budget lines relating to administrative operation, but with a rationalization logic that may call into question the defence of multilingualism or the financing of projects aimed in particular at raising citizens' awareness of european history or the issues of european elections.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support european workers who have lost their jobs. it allows them to reintegrate professionally. exceptionally, the financial and economic crisis is a sufficient reason for a member state to apply for a grant. the construction sector in spain, hit by the crisis, is experiencing several waves of redundancies. in an effort to show solidarity with the latter, we have released €1.6 million in aid.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. in this difficult time, it is our responsibility to support the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market. the european union launched a european economic recovery plan and found that the crisis had a very negative impact on the construction sector in particular, which saw demand collapse. to remedy the shortness of breath in this sector and to help to minimise the adverse effects of the economic crisis which has hit us hard, i voted in favour of this report, which allows the european globalisation adjustment fund to be used, in this particular case, in favour of spain.
in writing. eur 1.6 million to help over 1000 spanish employees to change their jobs and find new ones: the aid was granted in extremis! the reason: their dismissal because of the economic crisis! we're stepping on the head! let me explain: the egf was set up in 2006 to help the reintegration of employees made redundant as a result of globalisation. the economic crisis has come and a derogation has been introduced so that employees made redundant as a result of the crisis can also benefit; that derogation expired on 31 december 2011. despite the european parliament's vote to extend the derogation, the council of ministers decided otherwise! as a result, while the effects of the economic crisis are still being felt in some cases very severely in the member states, employees will be deprived of assistance from the egf: this fund can only support redundancies directly linked to globalisation. it is an aberration, and a situation totally incomprehensible to our fellow citizens. the egf is again going to be under-used by this distressing decision of the ministers who represent us.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 1 138 workers in the construction sector who have been laid off. this fund, with an annual budget of eur 500 million, provides additional support to our citizens most affected by the economic and financial crisis by helping them to find new jobs and acquire new skills.
in writing. i supported the matera report, which responds favourably to a request from spain for a mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. like my colleagues in the epp, i am pleased to see that this report has been adopted by 567 votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my french colleague from the european people's party, alain lamassoure, which reaffirms the new institutional balance achieved for the benefit of the european parliament since the treaty of lisbon. as you know, the european parliament has become a true co-legislator of the european union, since it has powers equal to those of the council of ministers in the ordinary legislative procedure and in the budgetary procedure. we, your representatives, are now on a genuine par with the ministers representing the national governments. the practice of putting questions to the council of ministers on the agenda of the plenary session therefore loses its legitimacy. but at the same time, as the report points out, the lisbon treaty "created new institutions on the government side: the european council and its permanent president, the high representative, the eurogroup". i therefore believe that not only should the possibility of holding question hours with the council of ministers and the president of the european commission be maintained, but that such a procedure should also be provided for with the president of the european council, the high representative for foreign affairs and the president of the eurogroup.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon completed - on paper at least - the process of parliamentarisation which had been under way for a long time. the european parliament became co-legislator on most matters, deciding on an equal footing with the council. in reality, it still has to fight to see the rules applied: it is as if the states had not read the lisbon treaty! the links between the institutions are being strengthened and it is essential to increase the power of inquiry of the ep vis-à-vis the council: the possibility of questioning the council, within the framework of an hour of specific questions, on matters related to those of its competence which do not fall within the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions must be maintained. the possibility of organising question hours not only with the president of the commission but also with the vice-president and the president of the eurogroup must be maintained, particularly in the context of the crisis in which these new institutions have been called upon to take major political decisions. these exchange times are essential if the ep is to take its full place in the interinstitutional balance of power and be a central element of the public debate and the legitimacy of the eu vis-à-vis the citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by alain lamassoure. i share the rapporteur's view that the question time in the council should be adapted in the plenary following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it seems to me important that the european parliament, now on an equal footing with the council in legislative and budgetary functions, should make the most of the new powers granted by the treaty. this amendment to the regulation is therefore welcome, since it puts an end to the asymmetry of relations with the council. i would also point out that it will always be possible to ask the council about its specific powers.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has had powers equal to those of the council in the ordinary legislative procedure and in the budgetary procedure. in the light of this new institutional balance, it no longer seemed justified to maintain question time in the council in its present form. nevertheless, it appeared essential to maintain the possibility of asking the council questions on matters relating to its powers outside the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions, within the framework of a specific question time. i supported the report by my colleague alain lamassoure.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution condemning the situation in belarus, where repression is on the increase. we renew our support for the belarusian people and call on president alexander lukashenko to engage in dialogue.
in writing. we had to reaffirm our commitment to the authoritarianism of the belarusian president. this report is intended to promote democracy in that country. i invite the commission to support, through financial and political means , the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations to foster the emergence of democracy. i condemn the deterioration of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the lack of democratic and economic reforms, the persecution of human rights defenders and members of the democratic opposition, and the harassment of civil society activists and independent media. we therefore asked for new sanctions, so that our actions would be in line with our political message!
in writing. parliament approved the resolution on belarus, which echoes the decisions taken by the foreign affairs council on 23 march on the strengthening of sanctions against the entourage of alexander lukashenko and his companies. at the doorstep of europe there is an arbitrary and repressive regime that silences the media and violates fundamental freedoms with impunity. we cannot tolerate it. the european union has repeatedly demanded the release of political prisoners, but the minsk regime, which has close economic ties with russia, has decided to harden its position towards the union by expelling the polish ambassador and the head of the european union delegation. the resolution will not bring about any significant changes in the immediate future, but it is important that parliament stands in solidarity with the restrictive measures taken by the council (asset freezes, visa bans, arms and equipment embargoes) and expresses, on behalf of the european citizens, its indignation at a regime which flouts the most essential rights and freedoms.
in writing. since the presidential election of 19 december 2010, the political situation in belarus has deteriorated severely. the regime continues to take significant repressive measures against members of the democratic opposition, the media, civil society activists and human rights defenders, despite repeated calls from the international community for an immediate end to the crackdown. the eu is also calling on the belarusian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in belarus is not further destabilised. calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners, and recalls that the dialogue between the european union and belarus cannot progress without progress in belarus on democracy, human rights and the rule of law; calls again on the commission to support, through financial and political means, the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations in the country to promote democracy.
in writing. threatening the eu's internal security, organised crime, corruption and money laundering must be combated to uphold the democratic values promoted by the union and to put an end to the distortions in the internal market which they cause by putting pressure on the legal economy. a special parliamentary committee was therefore set up. the commission's mandate is to assess the situation in europe and propose measures to combat these threats.
in writing. as i announced at the end of the last plenary session, a special parliamentary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering has been set up by the european parliament. it will have one year to investigate the infiltration of the eu's legal economy, public administration and financial systems by organised crime, including mafias, and to propose ways of combating it. the misappropriation of public funds, the infiltration of the public sector and the contamination of the legal economy and the financial system are the main threats posed by criminal organisations in the european union. the members have just been appointed and two women have been nominated to my french delegation from the european people's party, my colleagues véronique mathieu and marielle gallo. the european parliament is finally taking up this issue and is sending a clear message to criminal organisations and gangs!
in writing. the eu must be able to react quickly to democratic changes in its immediate neighbourhood. however, when the arab revolutions broke out, the eu was unable to mobilise immediate support for the actors of these revolutions. that is why we have decided to set up a european democracy fund.
in writing. i am an active campaigner for the european union to be a tool for transmitting our democratic values and progress. that is why i voted in favour of the report which calls for more effective and targeted european action on the use of the new european democracy fund (fedem). it must be given priority to our neighbours to the south and east, in the framework of the union for the mediterranean and the eastern partnership. moreover, support for democracy in these countries can only be beneficial to us, both politically and economically. the adoption was unanimous and, as the rapporteur, my colleague alexander graf lambsdorff, points out, this fund must be able to offer 'tailor-made assistance, flexible, responsive, responsive to the needs of the beneficiaries and capable of being reprogrammed quickly'. it must also grant grants directly to the beneficiaries. while avoiding 'double-use', this fund should complement existing financial instruments, including the european instrument for democracy and human rights.
in writing. i support the possibility of creating a european democracy fund. the arab revolutions show how important it is to put in place relevant and adaptable accompanying measures. two aspects of the report have caught my attention: the prominence of parliament in ensuring that the fund is used properly and the european union's commitment to democracy.
in writing. the european union has planned to set up a new tool dedicated to supporting all actions in favour of democracy and the rule of law by civil society and its representatives in the countries neighbouring the european union. the proposal to create the european democracy fund was launched in the wake of the events in the southern mediterranean to provide a more targeted response that does not duplicate the objectives of other existing european instruments and programmes such as the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). the fund, which responds to the eu's necessary adaptation to the new challenges posed by the arab spring, should support efforts towards democratic transition by providing concrete support to actors involved in strengthening democratic values and the rule of law, such as ngos, the media, trade unions, bloggers, etc. in adopting this report, parliament endorsed the process of developing and implementing the new fund with a view to making this new instrument operational by 2013.
in writing. my colleague mr lambsdorff's report aims to set up a semi-autonomous entity, through a european democracy fund, to help people working for democracy and to support democratic developments around the world. the fund should be managed in a non-bureaucratic way and should intervene at the first stage of the transition to give impetus to projects which until now could not be supported by the european union because of bureaucratic constraints. i supported this fine initiative in the plenary session in brussels.
in writing. the arab spring has shown the urgency for the eu to strengthen its commitment to democracy and to provide appropriate assistance to democratic transition processes around the world. in this sense, the creation of the european democracy fund (edf) seems to be one of the most tangible responses that the eu can provide to the challenges of democratisation in our neighbourhood and beyond, and i hope that the discussions currently under way in the council can lead to its establishment very soon. in this context, it seems to me crucial that such a fund should play a synergistic and complementary role in relation to the action of all the european institutions, and that it should bring real added value by complementing existing financing instruments. the mission and values of the emff should also be clarified in order to have precise criteria for the selection of beneficiaries. i also believe it is essential to accompany the establishment of an adequate control system to assess the effectiveness of the funding provided and the sustainability of the actions financed. that is the message i wish to convey to the council by voting on this text.
in writing. the creation of the european democracy fund (edf) responds to the need to provide the european union with an instrument for responding rapidly and adapted to the democratic challenges of today's world. it will be supported by a wide range of actors working for democracy and the rule of law (ngos, media, bloggers, activists and political movements). this fund, and this was mentioned in the recommendation i supported, must not interfere with the other instruments already in existence. its added value lies in its lightweight structure, flexible procedures and simplified funding channels. the edf, unlike the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), will be more of a short- and medium-term approach to providing rapid assistance to pro-democracy actors in need. we also stressed the importance of the european parliament's oversight of the fund, not just on budgetary aspects.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the enlargement of the union to include serbia. in this resolution, parliament endorsed the decision of the european council of 1 march to grant candidate status to serbia and recalled that the opening of accession negotiations must be conditional on the continuation of democratic reforms.
in writing. the council of ministers decided to grant serbia candidate country status and called on the european union to open accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible . the report i supported recognises serbia's willingness to respect the copenhagen criteria, which are the prerequisites for any accession. it stressed the importance of continuing the dialogue between serbia and kosovo and of implementing the agreements reached in good faith. we are still calling for more efforts to guarantee the protection of minorities, the independence of the judiciary and the public administration. the country has resolutely turned to a functioning market economy. it must pursue its structural reforms and reduce its budget deficit.
in writing. more than two years after knocking on the door of the european union, serbia was granted candidate status on 2 march 2012. while serbia was the scene of nato bombing 13 years ago during the kosovo war, this nomination is a historic step forward and a reward for belgrade after its efforts to arrest ratko mladic and for its reconciliation with kosovo. i supported this resolution, which recognises the important role of serbia in maintaining security and stability in the balkans. it also called for action to be taken in accordance with the european values of reconciliation, compromise and peaceful coexistence.
in writing. at the thessaloniki european council on 19 and 20 june 2003, the european union committed itself to granting candidate status to the western balkan countries, provided they fulfil a number of criteria. serbia has since made considerable progress, including in ensuring the democratic functioning of its institutions, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities. for example, the government respects the prerogatives of the various minority councils and ensures their proper functioning. i therefore voted in favour of a resolution calling on the council to open accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible. this new step would encourage serbia to continue its efforts, particularly in the justice sector. in order to continue its progress towards the rule of law, serbia needs to improve the efficiency and transparency of its judicial institutions.
in writing. despite all the bad trials, the eu is such an attractive political and economic force that many countries on the continent are knocking on its door. serbia is one of the last countries to have expressed its desire to join us and has, after considerable and remarkable efforts, obtained candidate status. i voted in favour of this status in the light of the efforts of the serbian authorities to reform the country and to satisfy requests from the hague for the extradition of individuals suspected of war crimes. i see in this the goodwill of a country that is resolutely european and that is determined to join the eu when it is ready. but there is still a long way to go for this country, which still has to integrate a significant part of the community acquis, implement many essential reforms, improve its relations with kosovo and meet the copenhagen criteria, before it can claim to open accession negotiations. i do not think we should be too hasty, because in these troubled times the union must first of all ensure convergence and solidarity between its members. this is necessary to maintain the unity and cohesion of the european family.
in writing. kosovo's independence is still disputed by serbia and continues to divide the international community. but it is in the heart of europe that differences remain. i voted in favour of a report which requires the five member states of the european union which have not yet done so to recognise kosovo's independence. they must play a more active role in the discussions between serbia and kosovo. to varying degrees, these countries fear that this precedent will fuel or validate separatist temptations at home, on the part of the catalans or the basques in spain, the hungarian minorities in romania or slovakia, or the turks in cyprus. we call on serbia to continue to demonstrate its willingness to achieve the objectives of the ongoing dialogue. a second aspect of the report, which i also fully support, stresses the need for reforms in kosovo, particularly in the constitutional and electoral spheres. as a colleague from the european people's party has pointed out: the kosovars finally have the chance to create a democratic european state. although there are still challenges, they have already done a lot. it is our role to acknowledge their efforts and help the kosovars .
in writing. while 88 countries have already recognised kosovo's independence, it is regrettable that there are still 5 eu member states that have not done so. we are waiting for the presentation of the road map on visa liberalisation by the commission this summer. it will certainly be a positive first step towards a future stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union. another strong symbol for kosovar nationals would be if the international olympic committee allowed kosovar athletes to participate in the next olympic games in london. kosovo is on the right track, but there is still a long way to go and key challenges remain, including the return of refugees and internally displaced persons and the fight against corruption.
in writing. the report on enlargement to kosovo was adopted in the committee on foreign affairs on 24 january 2012. i supported the report by my colleague mr lunacek, which shows that peace in kosovo is still fragile and that it still has a long way to go before it is granted candidate status.
in writing. in plenary, i voted in favour of a balanced resolution on kosovo. it is a realistic text which does not conceal the many challenges to be met. among the most important, i note the fragmentation of the political scene and the difficulty the government has in effectively engaging with the opposition. we nevertheless encouraged kosovo to continue its efforts and recalled the progress made, such as the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of the police and the judicial system. it should be noted that kosovo remains the "poor relative" of the western balkans: it does not benefit from any trade agreement with the eu or from the liberalisation of short-stay visas with the countries of the schengen area. the european perspective must be 'tangible', however, because it is the best lever for the democratisation of kosovo and the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague from the european people's party, mrs oomen-ruijten, which calls on turkey to improve its relations with its neighbours. i believe that 'peaceful' relations between turkey and the neighbouring member states of the european union are a prerequisite for good relations between turkey and the european union. as you will have understood, turkey's relations with cyprus are at the heart of our concerns. i deplore, among other things, ankara's threats to freeze its relations with the cypriot presidency in the second half of 2012 if the conflict is not resolved. but it is also necessary for turkey to normalize its relations with armenia and to act on the kurdish question. beyond diplomatic issues, turkey must reform its judicial system, respect freedom of expression and media pluralism, principles at the heart of our european values and democratic societies.
in writing. 'turkey is making progress but can do better': this is the message we have just sent to turkey by adopting the resolution on the commission's 2011 report on its progress towards eu membership. the reform of the judiciary is still too timid and constitutional reform is stagnating. little progress has been made to protect civil liberties and ensure media freedom. there are still far too many journalists in pre-trial detention awaiting trial. reforms are also needed to ensure equal rights for women and children, including greater access to education. we support the commission's 'new positive timetable' to create new dynamism in eu-turkey relations. the eu also welcomes the efforts of the turkish authorities to establish a dialogue with the eu on the issue of the status of the kurdish minority in the region. the eu remains open to the continuation of accession negotiations, but it is up to turkey to show us its real will to make progress, and the non-boycott of the future cypriot eu presidency would be a good sign.
in writing. turkey is a strategic partner for the eu. it is a key economic partner, with an economy that has tripled in size in the last ten years. with eu-turkey trade reaching €103 billion in 2010, turkey became the eu's 7th largest trading partner. secondly, turkey is a country essential to the security and prosperity of the eu (essential energy corridor for the oil and gas resources of the caucasus and the caspian, geographical proximity to iraq). finally, it is a leading regional player, a strategic partner for our neighbourhood policy. however, it is clear that freedom of expression, media pluralism, democracy, the rule of law and the right to a fair trial, which are at the heart of our european values, are still far from being respected. the most consistent position is therefore to stick to an extended and strengthened strategic partnership with turkey. turkey is not in europe and therefore has no intention of joining the european union, which must be a coherent geographical entity. i have therefore decided to vote against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. turkey is a driving force in the region: its thriving economy despite the crisis, and the conduct of the june 2011 general elections, with their pluralism and high turnout, are a real example for the region. it is regrettable, however, that turkey is not making a greater commitment to international cooperation. for this to happen, border disputes, particularly the kurdish question, must be settled as a matter of priority, and the statute of the international criminal court ratified. it is also important that relations with the european union remain sustainable. it would also be good to ensure the protection of freedom of expression and media pluralism, and to pay particular attention to the reform of the judicial system, in order to promote a fair and democratic modernisation of the country.
in writing. this resolution is an opportunity to take stock of our relations with turkey. despite some progress, significant shortcomings still exist, which are holding back the negotiations for eventual accession. the commission has decided to complement this process, provided for in the treaties, with a 'positive timetable' which sets out the discussions for better convergence between the union and turkey. this is a good initiative, but it cannot replace the formal framework for negotiations. however, it is too early to consider enlargement of the union to include turkey, as many obstacles remain, both internally and externally. let us not forget that cyprus will hold the next presidency of the union and that turkey categorically refuses to recognise that state. in these circumstances, and given that the union is based on the principles of sincere cooperation and mutual solidarity between its members, how can we imagine any progress? in my vote, i therefore wanted to reaffirm my desire to make turkey a privileged and strategic partner of the union. it would be a historic mistake to want to go too fast, and we must be careful when it comes to choosing the members of the european family.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the enlargement of the union to montenegro. in this resolution, parliament welcomed the european council's decision to open accession negotiations with podgorica as from next june and called for more efforts to be made in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. the opening of negotiations with montenegro, with a view to eventual enlargement of the european union, must not be 'unduly and unfairly delayed'. montenegro has made significant progress so far in meeting the accession criteria. i therefore voted in favour of opening negotiations by june. i think it is essential to encourage this country to continue its reforms, particularly in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the opening of negotiations is, in my view, a way of showing that we are prepared to promote a sound democracy, to remedy economic and social problems, while remaining uncompromising about the progress that still needs to be made. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the legislative process. as göran farm put it, the country "deserves our congratulations", but "there is still work to be done!"
in writing. i supported the resolution on the enlargement of the european union to montenegro, which calls for accession negotiations to begin from june 2012. the rapporteur, mr tannock, likes to say that 'montenegro is a small country that does its job well'. the report highlights montenegro's progress in the areas of justice, good governance, freedom of the press and social cohesion and its high degree of compliance with the accession criteria.
in writing. by setting the date for the opening of negotiations for june 2012, the european council sent a strong signal to montenegro. it is a way of encouraging a country that has made remarkable progress in justice, good governance, freedom of the press and cooperation with civil society. montenegro has thus achieved a high degree of compliance with the accession criteria and the european parliament wanted to emphasise this in its resolution. nevertheless, efforts are worthwhile in the economic sector, as the slowdown in growth is likely to worsen the already high unemployment rate. significant structural reforms are needed to achieve solid growth and improve the living conditions of the montenegrin people. montenegro's integration into the eu must also be achieved through tourism and migration flows. since december 2009, the visa-free regime with the schengen area has encouraged mobility.
in writing. the financial crisis has highlighted the malfunctioning of business management systems. the bodu report, which i supported, calls for more accountable and transparent corporate governance and a stronger role for shareholders.
in writing. corporate governance, a subject which is dear to me, was the subject of a report aimed at enhancing transparency and the consideration of social, ethical and environmental concerns within companies. i share the view of the rapporteur, my colleague from the european people's party, mr sebastian bodu, who felt that it was necessary to specify a common set of rules governing the relations between shareholders, directors and managers for all listed companies, while taking into account the flexibility required for small structures and specific provisions for certain member states. for example, we have asked for a clear separation of the functions of chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer in large structures. finally, because my fight as president of women at the centre is also at the heart of my work in the european parliament, i supported the provisions for quotas for women. more transparency in business, preventing conflicts of interest and promoting good practice in the private sector are all topics that illustrate my vision of business in europe.
in writing. i welcome the initiative of the european parliament, which has decided to take up the subject of corporate governance. because it offers concrete solutions to certain shortcomings in this area, i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mr bodu. corporate governance can be a key element in enabling a rapid exit from a crisis. the effectiveness of these structures must be strengthened and their actors called upon to assume their responsibilities. i particularly welcome the desire expressed by the european parliament to introduce a quota system at european level to increase the presence of women on boards. in this it is in line with the objectives recently announced by vice-president reding and reaffirms this ambition already expressed at the last plenary session by the adoption of the report by our colleague mr pietikäinen.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on corporate governance of european companies because it proposes minimum harmonisation and the establishment of common bases for large european companies, without, however, imposing rules in a binding manner that would harm their dynamism and economic development. the report also makes a distinction between publicly traded companies and smes, which will help to maintain the competitiveness of the smallest of our companies.
in writing. i decided to vote in favour of this report because the green paper on corporate governance for european companies, published in april 2011 by the european commission, leaves out important issues such as the way in which decisions are taken on boards of directors and the independence of directors... it seems to me that we must apply to our companies, depending on their size and type, a framework of appropriate good governance measures, while also taking into account their social responsibility. essential issues must be taken into account, such as gender equality in the enterprise, including through the use of quotas, so that the growth potential represented by the female share of the labour force is not a wasted opportunity! women must be properly represented on the boards of companies, places of power from which they are too often excluded.
in writing. corporate governance is defined as the system of management and control of enterprises and as a set of relationships between the management of the enterprise, its board of directors, its shareholders and other stakeholders. the report advocates the establishment of a european framework of corporate governance measures applicable to all listed companies. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. i wanted to support the report by our colleague mr bodu on a corporate governance framework for european companies. this report, for which i was rapporteur for the opinion of the imco committee, advocates more responsible european governance and the principles of transparency and increased shareholder participation. in the opinion of the imco committee, we had insisted on parity and equal treatment between men and women. i am for the introduction of quotas for women on the boards of large companies, including, if self-regulation proves insufficient, by means of compulsory measures. at imco, we also advocated diversity in professional and personal paths within the boards.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ivanova report on the eib's 2010 annual report, which recalls that smes must be the bank's top priority.
in writing. i have endorsed the conclusions of the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank, the financial institution of the european union. as the text recalls, the eib supports the achievement of the major european objectives. the report welcomes in particular the eib's assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union, which has become a top priority. but the report also acknowledges the efforts made to address economic and social imbalances in disadvantaged regions and to combat climate change. this last point is particularly important to me because as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am committed to sustainable investment by small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union. the report also calls for the mobilisation of the structural funds, the benefits of which are still poorly understood and on which i continue to report on a daily basis.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis is not over. beyond austerity and austerity plans, we must propose crisis plans which offer prospects to our fellow citizens. the european investment bank is one of the tools we have to support growth and employment. it must continue to play a leading role in the revitalization of the european economy, in particular by supporting smes, the real drivers of the european economy and the main creators of jobs and growth. the eib must also innovate; the commission has to reinforce in the coming months what it has started to do with project bonds to finance major infrastructure projects. we have an emergency !
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which follows the publication of the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank. i share the rapporteur's view that the european union should support smes, which are a key element of growth in europe. it seems to me important to ensure that the eib's activities, financed by the eu budget, contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i note the objectives of efficiency and transparency set out in the report. i also welcome the creation of new innovative financial instruments to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report. in her report, iliana ivanova welcomes the eib's 2010 annual report and welcomes the bank's support for the union's activities, in particular in favour of smes. it also called for greater transparency and accountability for the bank's global loan programme. finally, the report also supports cooperation between the eib and the commission in developing innovative financial instruments to promote the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. i vote for the 2010 annual report on the eib. i have little or no objection to the values and plans for both internal and external policies advocated in this report for the european union. however, it may be suspected that these fine words are merely statements of praiseworthy intentions. they do, however, offer good prospects for using the eib's tools, whose budget will increase. this is a way of taking account of the institution's experience and of giving it the means to move towards greater coherence between european values and the union's action, particularly in dealing with the challenges of what is commonly called the arab spring. the report calls for significant changes in the right direction. it remains to be hoped that all this will really be reflected in eu decisions.
in writing. every european citizen must be able to exercise his rights fully. but too many obstacles remain today. the objective of the 2010 citizenship of the union report is to present solutions based on petitions submitted by citizens to the european commission. freedom of movement remains a major priority for european citizens. this right must be applied without discrimination. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. by voting, i am actively campaigning to remove the obstacles to the exercise of your rights as citizens of the european union. because ever more ambitious integration will lead to simplification of your daily life, i believe it is essential to push the states to apply all the rules on european citizenship. from free movement to your voting rights, i call on the states to implement ever closer coordination. in this context, the european citizens' initiative established by the lisbon treaty enters into force on 1 april. this important legislation will enable you to participate in the development of european legislation. the procedure is simple and it is important that you learn this mechanism. to help raise awareness of the citizens' initiative procedure, the european parliament's communication services have prepared a multimedia app detailing the steps to be followed in a clear and attractive way in 22 languages. thanks to the sharing features of this application, you can publish it on your websites, blogs and facebook pages or profiles. here is the link to the multimedia application: make europe your own! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. despite all our policies calling for mobility, adherence to european values, and exchange, there are still far too many obstacles to citizenship. we have adopted this report because it contains many measures which stem from the proposals i made as rapporteur for the epp. these are concrete measures to remove obstacles to the exercise of the rights of european citizens and to create a sense of belonging and european identity. the proposals in this report also reflect many other expectations of our citizens in terms of online shopping, moving, children's rights, employment, care abroad, etc. the european year of citizenship in 2013 should demonstrate to citizens that with free movement there is also a free exercise of rights in europe.
in writing. i support this own-initiative report which highlights the difficulties encountered by european citizens on a daily basis, whether in the context of leisure, work or studies. i would like to make it clear that although the implementation of the directive on freedom of movement is not always easy, the european parliament is determined to provide concrete solutions to citizens.
in writing. the report we adopted by a very large majority this week aims to identify the still existing and persistent obstacles to european citizenship (in terms of free movement, recognition of diplomas, non-discrimination for example) and to strongly call on the member states to remove these difficulties. citizenship should be the first priority of the european union, because without a european citizen there is no europe and we cannot build europe, especially in the context of the economic crisis, the crisis of values that we are going through today. european citizenship is currently only weakly felt. but this lack of 'european feeling', this lack of involvement of citizens in the european union, the opacity of the european union for european citizens are the greatest shortcomings of europe. what the european citizen lacks is a sense of belonging to a european community and this is vital for the european union.
in writing. the european parliament gave its opinion on thursday 29 march on the report on removing obstacles to citizenship, which sets out 25 proposals to improve the daily lives of our citizens when they move, work, study, shop and exercise their political rights. in this report on the exercise of citizenship, which i strongly support, parliament has seen fit to stigmatise france by referring to the roma episode of 2010 and thus reopening a chapter which had been the subject of many misinterpretations and misuse at the time. i should remind my colleagues that the commission itself has refrained from initiating infringement proceedings against france and that the decision to evacuate the illegal camps was merely the application of judicial decisions, that it was in no way the expulsion of people on the grounds of their ethnic origin but rather a return to the border on an essentially voluntary basis. this malicious political use is unworthy of those who have brought this bad message. the european parliament is not exactly expected to make inaccuracies in a report which puts the citizen at the heart of its action.
in writing. the valean report contains 25 proposals which should enable all eu citizens to enjoy their rights when moving, working, studying, shopping, travelling and exercising their political rights when crossing borders... the aim is therefore to eliminate the main obstacles to freedom of movement in the european union. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. although european citizenship was established 20 years ago and has since been strengthened by the treaty of lisbon, too many difficulties still hinder its exercise. i welcome the vote on this report, which i supported. it has the merit of containing relevant proposals to remove obstacles to free movement and of pointing out cases of non-respect of the principle of european citizenship. i think it is necessary to promote better the right to petition, the european citizens' initiative and access to documents and information in a simple, user-friendly and understandable way. efforts should also be made to address double taxation, cross-border healthcare and respect for consumer rights, particularly online and for cross-border purchases. i also fully support the desire to set up one-stop shops, both physical and online, which will provide european citizens with a single point of information and recourse at local, national and european level. finally, i hope that the 2013 european year of citizens will be an opportunity to feed this debate and to make significant improvements to enable all europeans to enjoy their rights in the internal market.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, you know what is happening in argentina about the threat to nationalise the company ypf, of which the spanish repsol group is a shareholder. we are asking for a debate with a resolution because we want to protect european investments in third countries and, more particularly, to react to the unilateral and arbitrary decision of the argentine authorities. we ask that this debate be held tomorrow and that a resolution be drawn up on which we can work and vote later. we don't have to adopt him tomorrow. we can do it on thursday. that is the request of our group.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, richard howitt, because i do not think i have ever had the opportunity to work in such an atmosphere and i do not think i have ever seen a rapporteur push the will to compromise to such an extent, including by trying to reconcile the sometimes irreconcilable. this report is important because it shows a strong will to advance the demands that the european parliament and, more broadly, the european union should have on human rights. it is a matter of urgency that the internal and external policies of the european union in this area should be brought into line, and we know that there is a lot of work to be done. before we can teach the whole world, we must first sweep up the front door, and hypocrisy is often put on those benches. the report also stresses very strongly the need to implement the clauses on democracy and human rights, which should not be there just to give a good conscience. it is indeed useless if it is systematically and continually sacrificed on the altar of economic liberalism. we know what the facts are here too. i do not share all the satisfactions that our rapporteur has given you, mrs ashton, and i apologise for that, particularly on the european neighbourhood policy. finally, i would like to express our concern about the establishment of the foundation for democracy and the risks of political interference and manipulation that it may entail.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, poor mali and especially poor malians. poor tamacheqs, peuls, sonrhai or arabs who live in this part of the world, faced with an unprecedented humanitarian and health crisis, which did not originate, as you said, mrs ashton, last january with the new rebellion, nor with the mutiny of 21 march. the tuareg issue was brilliantly ignored during the decolonization. france has a heavy responsibility in this area. promises made to the tuareg have rarely been kept. the region is coveted for its rich natural resources, both within the country and by its neighbours and some european countries. for more than a decade, the sahel has been a lawless zone where the worst trafficking flourishes without anyone doing anything. at the end of the libyan war, thousands of weapons entered mali's territory, while all the neighbouring countries had disarmed the libyan rebels. since the beginning of january, the population, and especially women, have been the victims of the worst abuses. the european union must not abandon them any more than before. but it must take stock of the use of the funds it has already paid and which, obviously, are having difficulty reaching the people. it must help to ensure that an independent commission of inquiry can shed light on all the abuses committed. all efforts must be made to support, without interference, a political solution involving all stakeholders, including civil society representatives.
mr president, madam vice-president, the tuareg people are living in a situation of marginalization throughout their territory. in azawad, the tuareg territory of mali, all the commitments made for them over the last thirty years have never been fulfilled. the national movement for the liberation of azawad (mlna) is fighting for the recognition of the tuareg people's historical and cultural rights. all of this seems legitimate to me. however, in the name of the risk of islamist terrorism in the region, there is talk of lending the malian military a hand in suppressing the tuareg movement. that seems to be the point of your speech. we are fighting this option because the mlna has no relation or affinity with the radical islamist movement. on the contrary, the traditions of the amazigh tuareg people are contrary to the principle of sharia. they promote a much more tolerant customary law, especially with regard to the status of women. the tuareg population and the mlna will be much better bulwarks against fundamentalism than all the western-infused military regimes. we must engage in dialogue with the mlna if we are to achieve real stability in this part of the world.
in writing. mr president, we are celebrating a very sad anniversary, the one of the repression in syria, which has now exceeded the symbolic figure of 10,000 dead. i am shocked by the extreme violence that we see, but also particularly concerned by the turn of events. we should be glad that the united nations is finally taking up the matter. the kofi annan plan seems to me to be a reasonable road map for hoping for a way out of the crisis. but it seems that bashar el assad is using it only to buy time. the ceasefire he had agreed to lasted only a few hours before he resumed shelling several towns. however, it is worth noting the important unanimous resolution of the un security council, which allowed the deployment of military observers to syria. their task is proving difficult with no sign of political will on the ground to get out of the crisis. but this is the only hope for the gradual implementation of kofi annan's plan. i welcome the european diplomatic action which has succeeded in convincing russia and china not to veto the un resolution once again.
mr president, as many of my colleagues have said about azerbaijan, i would welcome the agreement with armenia. i believe that this is an important area from an economic point of view and that it is necessary to strengthen ties with the european union and all the countries of the south caucasus. i would also like to advocate for a peaceful and lasting solution in nagorno-karabakh. things are not as simple as i have heard, with words like "occupied territories". you know, there's also a regime on the other side that's increasingly militarized. i therefore believe that we must trust, firstly, the minsk group and, secondly, france, which is a historic partner in this region. i would like to stress the central role of the latter, as a historic partner and also as a member of the european union, in the work of this group and the absolute need to preserve its rightful place in the forthcoming negotiations.
mr rehn, commissioner, if you are joining us in this debate on workers' rights in an open europe, i imagine you have something to say to it, beyond the listening that you have done in these speeches. i must tell you, commissioner, that there is a great difference between you and me, namely that i am a secularist, and sometimes i get the impression from listening to you that you belong to a sect or a church whose dogma is that of austerity. as a layman, i rely on evidence. when i look at the result of spain today, a country which has been a good student of the stability pact, a country where, even under president zapatero, all the revenues requested by the commission have been implemented: this country has today six million unemployed. so i ask you, commissioner, are the workers' rights we are talking about just rights for quiet times and should the troika go to greece in times of crisis to impose an austerity plan that completely ignores the strength of our social model and the importance of social dialogue in order to be able to successfully overcome this crisis.
what i see is that at the time mr sarkozy and mrs merkel wanted to divide the socialists by using mr zapatero's example against other socialist examples. obviously, that's not the point. the question is whether or not we can restore public finances in a country without growth. the question is not whether it is at the regional or central level, the question is that of job-creating growth. how do you think, commissioner, that this recipe will be successful in greece, when, from the point of view of the workers and the greeks themselves, what you are proposing is that the investment plans be carried out by large german companies and that the greeks benefit from mobility, which is tantamount to organizing a brain drain. do you think this is the right way and do you not see that deep down there may be a moment when you have to accept that there has been a mistake?
madam president, there is something embarrassing about mr howitt's report, as a number of speakers have pointed out. apart from the fundamental issues of the right to life, there is the fact that human rights are promoted almost everywhere in the world instead of, as it were, sweeping up at our doorstep. in my country, france, for example, freedom of expression, which the lawyer reports, is being severely restricted. it is restricted in history, on the grounds that it is forbidden to challenge crimes against humanity by virtue of decisions in which a number of judges should have been among the accused. freedom of historical research is virtually non-existent with regard to the second world war and a number of other tragedies of contemporary history. the same is true in politics. we no longer have the right to challenge immigration and if we speak about it for anything other than good, we risk being prosecuted, tried or, more or less severely convicted under the pretext of inciting racial hatred, which obviously has nothing to do with speaking freely about the immigration problem. the same is true today, at least in the moral sense. those who prefer the family of a father and a mother to homosexual unions run the risk - and this risk, a french deputy, of the current majority, has suffered - of being brought before the courts and being heavily condemned as well. i think therefore that we had better sweep our own front door than pretend to lecture the whole world.
in writing. i voted in favour of new rules which will allow for better coordination of european social security systems. in the face of an increasingly integrated internal market, the social protection of workers, in particular mobile workers, must be guaranteed. the introduction of the concept of "base of assignment" for aircrew (pilots, stewards, flight attendants) ensures their entitlement to social benefits. the new rules also clarify the situation of frontier selfemployed workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure adequate coordination at european union level of national social security systems, thereby increasing the protection of workers. this includes support for provisions on unemployment benefits for selfemployed workers and seafarers. the report by my colleague, mr milan cabrnoch, also extends the scope of the coordination of social security systems to the unemployed, to those who are not yet working or who are no longer working. the proposal supports the introduction of new benefits, including paternity and early retirement benefits, in those member states which so wish. milan cabrnoch, a member of the european people's party, has brought this text forward, and it shows us, once again, that the socialists do not have a monopoly on social measures for the benefit of citizens.
in writing. getting your rights when you are a mobile worker in the european union is often a struggle, even though the free movement of people and the right to work anywhere in the european union have been enshrined as fundamental rights for all european citizens. i therefore regard the adoption of new european rules on the coordination of social security systems as a good thing, provided that they really guarantee equal access to social security systems for nationals of a country and for european citizens who move there to work. two new provisions seem to be moving in the right direction. the concept of 'base of assignment' was introduced to provide social security rights for seafarers. stewards and flight attendants will now be covered by the social security system of the country where they start and end their service. in addition, the long-awaited clarification of the access of selfemployed frontier workers to unemployment benefits has finally been achieved. thus, a selfemployed person will be able to receive unemployment benefits from the country in which he has worked if the frontier state in which he resides does not provide for them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which brings two notable improvements in the coordination of social security systems within the european union. first, clarification of access to unemployment benefits, so that crossborder selfemployed workers can receive unemployment benefits in the country where they worked, if they reside in another member state where no unemployment benefits exist. secondly, the introduction of the concept of 'base of employment' for seafarers (pilots, flight attendants, etc.), which will put an end to the social dumping of low-cost airlines on their personnel and thus guarantee fair social security for all seafarers. as a native of a very 'cross-border' region, i fully support any initiative that will enhance the mobility of european citizens within the european union, so that they can move, travel or work throughout the european union without administrative obstacles.
in writing. the proposal is one of the regular updates of regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 which aims to ensure adequate coordination at european union level of national social security systems. i voted in favour of these amendments which will help to solve the problems faced by some of our fellow citizens. the diversity and changing conditions under which professional activities are carried out require that the situation of highly mobile workers be taken into account. new labour supply structures have emerged, particularly in air transport. in order to facilitate the application of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 to this group of persons, it is justified to provide for a special provision by making the concept of 'base of employment' a criterion for determining the legislation applicable to seafarers. the new rules mean that seafarers such as flight attendants and stewards will be subject to the social security of the country in which they 'start and end their service'.
in writing. i supported this report, which was largely adopted by the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs, and which aims to ensure appropriate coordination of social security systems at european level. it is an update of the existing regulations, taking into account legal developments at member state level and in cross-border mobility.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which strengthens and adjusts the coordination of national social security systems at european level. it incorporates the developments in social security systems in each member state and the increase in cross-border mobility. it thus makes it possible, for example, to offer better recognition of the rights of selfemployed workers who have been insured in the member state in which they last worked.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report to update two european regulations and thus modernise the crossborder coordination of social security systems. the text concerns crossborder selfemployed workers who will be able to obtain unemployment insurance in the member state in which they last worked. similarly, members of the crew, such as stewards or flight attendants, will be subject to the social security of the country in which they 'begin and end their service'.
in writing. i support the accession of the european union to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia. this accession will give the union greater visibility and strengthen its presence in the region.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in southeast asia was signed by the original members of the association of southeast asian nations in 1976. it was intended to promote peace, stability and cooperation in southeast asia. although originally designed to apply only to states in the south east asian region, the treaty was amended in 1987 to allow states outside the region to accede to it. in july 2006, the member states of the european union agreed to start the procedure for the union's accession to the treaty, and i naturally voted in favour of this accession to the treaty of friendship between our two regions.
in writing. ireland ratified the lisbon treaty with great difficulty: a first referendum had given the no winner before a second one allowed ratification provided certain conditions set by the irish government were accepted, on topics such as the right to life. because the european union is also about being united in diversity, and because it is about respecting each other's cultural differences, it was agreed that, when the next accession treaty was concluded, they would set out the provisions of this decision in a protocol to be annexed to the treaties.
in writing. unsurprisingly, the european parliament approved, by consensus, the draft addendum to the protocol on the concerns of the irish people. this protocol is the result of the agreement reached at the european council on 18 and 19 june 2009. it covers a number of areas: the right to life, protection of the family and education, taxation, security and defence, and workers' rights and social policy. parliament also decided not to convene a convention if the provisions of the protocol did not justify it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the proposal of the european council not to convene a convention to add to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union a protocol on the concerns of the irish people regarding the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament shall be seized in this context by an approval procedure. the report was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs (afco).
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation which supports the european council's proposal not to convene a convention in the context of the annexation to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people concerning the treaty of lisbon. since the amendments to the treaties were relatively minor, it was appropriate to use a simplified revision procedure which would offer more flexibility and save time.
in writing. as recommended in the report, we considered that it was not necessary to convene a convention to add to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union a protocol on the concerns of the irish people regarding the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the draft protocol on the concerns of the irish people regarding the treaty of lisbon as it supports the european council's decision to examine the proposed amendments to the treaties and provides for the addition of the protocol to the treaties in favour of ratifying the treaty of accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. when the treaty of lisbon was ratified, the irish people expressed a number of concerns about the challenge to some of its specific features. in order to reassure him, it was agreed that a protocol providing assurances to the irish in the areas of the right to life, taxation and security and defence would be annexed to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in accordance with this commitment, i supported the adoption of this report which paves the way for the annexation of the protocol to the treaties, while welcoming the decision of the european council to examine the amendments to the treaties.
in writing. after the rejection of the european constitution by referendum in france and the netherlands in 2005, the rejection of the lisbon treaty in 2008 by referendum in ireland was another major setback for the european union. rather than respect the decision of the people, our leaders have once again decided to go ahead and rely on democratic legitimacy, this time by granting the irish people some meagre legal guarantees on provisions of the lisbon treaty which they found unsatisfactory. the failure to respect the vote of the european people is, in my view, a factor which has only increased the eu's democratic deficit and further widened the gap between the citizens and brussels. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. so yes, we vote to add this protocol, negotiated in 2009, to the existing treaties, but no, we are not at all fooled by how much this will change the perception of the eu among the irish.
in writing. i voted against the one of mr rangel's two reports which approves the fact that a european convention was not convened to discuss the protocol on irish exceptions to the lisbon treaty, but not against his report on the approval of the protocol itself. because a convention would have been needed to discuss the legitimate concerns of all citizens in the face of the present european construction. we should have discussed the ultra-liberal and anti-social content of european policies, which is engraved in the marble of this treaty. the role of the european central bank and the balance sheet of the euro should have been discussed. the 'no's' of the french and dutch people should have been met with justice, since their leaders did not think it necessary to take their concerns into account by imposing on them a copy of the european constitution. ireland has managed to save its family law, its tax system and its military neutrality. we would have liked nicolas sarkozy to have seized this opportunity to start implementing the reform of what he criticizes in europe. he didn't do it. this is proof that his election promises are, as in 2007, essentially demagogic.
in writing. due to their particularities (remoteness, insularity, etc.), the european rules and programmes cannot be applied to the so-called 'outermost regions' (ors) in the same way as to the rest of the european territory. they therefore enjoy a special status which allows them to adopt a 'territorial' approach. the purpose of this own-initiative report is to analyse the role of future cohesion policy in the octs in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. by voting for this report, i renew my support for the ors and strongly condemn the european commission's proposal to reduce the additional specific allocation for the ors by 40%.
in writing. the outermost regions of the european union (canary islands, azores, madeira, martinique, guadeloupe, french guiana, réunion, saint martin) receive a special allocation under the cohesion policy because of their specific situation. the european commission is drawing up a new plan for these regions and is considering reducing the funds allocated to them. we therefore stressed the importance of compensating for the structural handicaps of the outermost regions, as well as those of other regions in europe. my experience with cohesion policy funds allows me to say that subsidies for the economic diversification of these regions are necessary and that it is equally important to support european citizens living in these regions.
in writing. the eu's outermost regions suffer from serious economic handicaps, due to their small size, remoteness and difficult terrain and climate. they have a special status enshrined in the treaty. as the conditions and difficulties of these regions are of a permanent nature and differentiate them from other european regions, eu rules and programmes cannot be applied in the same way as in the rest of the eu. their implementation must follow a territorial approach. the teixeira own-initiative report, which i supported, stresses the need to analyse, with regard to future cohesion policy in the ors, how these regions can achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, despite their permanent characteristics and constraints, in particular their remoteness from the heart of europe. however, this differentiation does not only mean paying special attention to compensation, but also and above all including them in a suitable strategy providing for a development model capable of taking real advantage of their strengths, for greater competitiveness, more growth and more job creation.
in writing. as the debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2014 has just begun in the european parliament, which has become a co-decision-maker on this subject by the treaty of lisbon, parliament wanted to recall the specific nature of the outermost regions - including the french octs - and the need to provide them with adequate means for their economic and social development. because of their remoteness, insularity and extreme climatic conditions, these territories require differential treatment, both for the viability of local industrial and agricultural production and for the successful implementation of the various programmes and competences of the european union. the commission's proposal to halve the amount of compensation for the additional costs in these areas is therefore very regrettable. i had in fact proposed amendments on this subject in the opinion of the committee on budgets on the teixeira report, just as i had recalled the need to include in the financial forecasts for these regions for 2014-2020 the planned accession of mayotte to the status of outermost region. mayotte will become the fifth french outermost territory recognised by the european union in 2014.
in writing. the outermost regions of the european union, because of their specificities, characteristics, geographical remoteness, structural weaknesses of their economies and dependence on the outside, etc., must be entitled to differential treatment within the framework of the european union's cohesion policy, so that their particularities are sufficiently taken into account and protected. at a time when we are negotiating within the european institutions the new budgetary programming of the union, our parliament has firmly opposed the commission's proposal to reduce the specific allocation for the outermost regions by almost half, recalling that a differentiated treatment for these regions is necessary. in this resolution, which i supported, we also insist on the inclusion of the specific features of the ors in all the european union's policies: fisheries and maritime policy, transport, the environment, etc.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by a large majority the report on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions (ors) in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, and i welcome this. the outermost regions, because of their physical and structural specificity, geographical remoteness and isolation, enjoy a special status and, therefore, a well-justified differentiated treatment, as the report states. like the other regions of the european union, the ors must strive to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it's a condition of their development and growth. however, given their specific characteristics and constraints, european policies must be applied in a way that is appropriate to the octs, both in their internal and external dimensions. the european commission must take these regions into account in trade negotiations with third countries, as they can have a strong impact on their economic development. the rups have both advantages and disadvantages. it is up to the european union to strike the right balance between the implementation of its policies, its approach to governance and promoting their integration in the geographical areas to which they belong.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report on the definition and implementation of european policies in the outermost regions for 2014-2020, taking into account the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report rejects the european commission's proposal to reduce the additional specific allocation for the outermost regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the urps, many of my proposals were adopted. parliament, on my initiative, asks the european commission to combat the high cost of living in the french overseas departments and to draw the attention of the european commission to the situation of monopolies, abuse of a dominant position and illegal agreements which have an unfair effect on the high cost of living. parliament therefore called for a study on price formation in the overseas territories. another of my amendments was that parliament should denounce the european commission's lack of interest in taking account of the specific features of the ors when negotiating economic partnership agreements and urge the commission to continue to seek compromises in the epas which respect the interests of the ors concerned. the adoption of this own-initiative report on the octs by the european parliament by a near unanimous vote is good news, but it does not in any way remove the threat of a reduction in the structural funds allocated to the octs and the poorest european regions, and the member states are still calling for a revised downward european budget for 2014-2020.
in writing. mr president, once again we have demonstrated our commitment to a strong but sensible cohesion policy. i think it is obvious that economic recovery will depend on the dynamism of our regions. i believe in good ideas and entrepreneurship. and europe has a key role to play: to support the initiatives of our regions in an intelligent and pragmatic way. the creation of the new intermediate category of regions, which will benefit languedoc-roussillon, is a step in the right direction. unfortunately, some decision-makers do not share my view and question this idea. so i say very clearly, as a semi-independent mep and elected by the people for more than 20 years: our territories need to feel that they are being helped. europe must move forward with ambition, not backward.
in writing. the outermost regions (ors) of the european union are characterised by remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate. they face a great challenge: to turn their constraints into opportunities for growth. unfortunately, the economic, social and financial crisis has particularly affected the ors, highlighting certain structural weaknesses in their economies and their dependence on the outside world. in this context, eu action in their favour is more essential than ever. the text of this report stresses the need to adapt european fiscal and customs policies in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the outermost economies, as well as the importance of supporting smes by allocating community funds for the development of the productive fabric of the outermost regions. it also stressed the importance of the tourism sector for these regions and called on the commission to speed up the implementation of the european action plan in this field by ensuring better coordination of existing funding lines. i support this report because i believe that european investment in the ors is not just a policy of making up for delays and compensating for handicaps, but is also for the benefit and benefit of the european union as a whole.
in writing. i welcome the positioning of our assembly today. i would like to return to two essential points in this report. it was important that our assembly should express itself clearly against the commission's proposal to reduce the specific allocation for the urf by almost half. this reduction is all the more unjust because it affects a budget which finances the compensation of disabled people, who by definition are not being reduced. they are described as structural and permanent in our treaties. these regions would thus be the only territories, indeed the only ones, within the cohesion policy, which would see a reduction in their funds which would not be justified by an effect of growth, a change in the category of regions. secondly, i would like to stress the request we made for a comparative analysis of price formation in these territories. economic mechanisms that are contrary to the principles of the single market seem to be at work here and regularly lead to extremely worrying social movements. we must have better informed and more targeted action in this area to meet the urgent needs of the people.
in writing. i welcomed with enthusiasm the statement by the high representative of the european union, catherine ashton, in favour of the creation of a post of eu special representative on human rights. with this vote, i wanted to emphasise that, as the rapporteur points out, to be a credible actor in external relations, the european union must act consistently, but also as an example, and avoid double standards between human rights policy and other policies, both internal and external. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the european union's foreign policy must above all be based on promoting the values that have made europe what it is today. that is why i supported the adoption of this report, which defends these humanist and republican values, but also monitors the proper allocation of european funds in this area. promoting our values is important, but controlling the budget we allocate is equally important. however, i could not support certain points which give a wrong interpretation of the role played by france in the negotiations.
in writing. the european parliament once again takes a position on the external relations of the european union. parliament is alarmed by the many violations of human dignity, but the report as a whole is nonetheless ideological in that it calls for european action which will be ineffective and bureaucratic by nature. the proposals on "digital diplomacy" and "sustainable democracy" may leave us with a hint of caution, to say the least. the principled support for "bloggers" and other "activists" (new heroes of human rights-ism) is two-edged. the european parliament, far from the euphoric speeches of some leaders on the democratic aspirations of the maghreb and the middle east, expresses its concern (albeit belatedly) about the persecution of minorities, especially christians, in these regions of the world. however, diplomacy and international relations must remain the exclusive competence of the states.
in writing. there is a need to develop a genuine common eu strategy on human rights. as the report stresses, this new strategy must be based on clear actions, a pre-established timetable and an effective distribution of responsibilities, which will include clarification of the roles of the council and the european parliament in this area. the two-sided attitudes between human rights policies and foreign policies should be avoided, particularly in relation to asylum policy. the integration of the protection of human rights into the different policies of the union, in particular its external actions and its cooperation and development strategy, is still imperfect and will require greater collaboration with civil society. finally, the prospect of future accession of the european union, as an autonomous entity, to the european convention on human rights is to be welcomed.
in writing. i have supported this report which refers to the annual report published by the european external action service (eeas) on human rights and democracy in the world in 2010, and which reviews the european union's policy on the matter (in particular the union's action in the united nations, trade and human rights, etc.). i also supported two paragraphs in the report defending the rights of lgbt people.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of. based on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2010 published last november by the european external action service (eeas), it provides a constructive analysis of the european union's policy in this area. i fully share the conclusions of this report, which calls on the european union to pursue an ever more concrete policy in favour of the defence of human rights, particularly in the context of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the howitt report on human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. it is necessary for the european union to continue to promote human rights on the international scene unremittingly under the provisions of the european treaties. i personally supported amendments 7 and 8 which encourage the eu institutions to defend the rights of lgbt people in their bilateral relations with third countries, in international forums and through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. in this respect, i also ask the commission to promote the removal of gender identity from the list of mental and behavioural disorders in the negotiations on the 11th version of the international classification of diseases (icd-11) published by the who.
in writing. since 1 july 1999, the european union has been linked to azerbaijan by a partnership and association agreement. the vote on this resolution enabled the european parliament to make recommendations on the negotiations currently under way with baku. as a member of the delegation to the eu-armenia, eu-azerbaijan and eu-georgia parliamentary cooperation committees, i welcome this agreement which will strengthen relations between the european union and the south caucasus. i am campaigning for a peaceful and lasting solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. we must give a central role to the minsk group which is conducting the peace negotiations. i would like to stress the major role played by france, a historic partner in the region, in the work of this group and the absolute need to retain its rightful place in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. the european union and azerbaijan are currently negotiating an association agreement which will succeed the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). this association agreement will significantly strengthen azerbaijan's political association and economic integration with the european union. but many issues, including energy, remain unresolved. i believe that human rights should be a precondition for any association agreement, especially since the country is not a member of the world trade organisation. finally, as in the resolution on armenia, we call on armenia to take action to resolve the nagorno-karabakh conflict, a destructive conflict which has been going on since the fall of the ussr. we condemned the militarization of the region and the high military expenditure of both countries, and call on their leaders to moderate their words and avoid inflammatory statements, so as to open the way to a genuine dialogue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen our relations with azerbaijan. i note that the process is proceeding in accordance with the procedures laid down by the european union and the guarantees provided by azerbaijan. i would also like to point out that the association agreement is part of the logical continuation of the partnership and cooperation agreements already in place between the european union and azerbaijan. two points attract my attention: the need to ensure that the requirements of the european union are met and the use of regional cooperation to find a solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this new association agreement with azerbaijan, which is an important partner for the european union and a major player in the caucasus. i welcome the good relationship established with our azeri partners, which has led to the signing of an agreement to strengthen trade. however, as we recall in this text, azerbaijan must sit down at the negotiating table with the countries of the region in order to find a solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict which has been going on for too long, to the detriment of the peoples.
in writing. this report, like the one on the eu-armenia association agreement, focuses on the unresolved conflict between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh and also notes a certain imbalance in the recommendations to stakeholders on the settlement of the conflict. the discrepancy between the texts of the european parliament's recommendations could be strongly perceived by the parties to the conflict and risk causing the european union to lose its image of neutrality. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to clarify the european parliament's position in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and azerbaijan. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen political dialogue and economic integration between the parties (without providing for a free trade area as azerbaijan is not a member of the wto). the european parliament also expressed its support for the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which seeks to defend the position of the european parliament in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan. the aim of the agreement is to strengthen the political association and economic integration of azerbaijan, without however creating a free trade area, as azerbaijan is not a member of the world trade organisation (wto). the adoption of the report is also an opportunity for the european parliament to raise the worrying situation in nagorno-karabakh and to stress the importance of respecting international standards above all.
in writing. the european parliament encouraged the continuation of the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. azerbaijan is in a position to contribute to the solution of the problems related to the eu's energy security. in return, the eu promotes the country's socioeconomic integration by providing technical and financial assistance. however, the nagorno-karabakh conflict between azerbaijan and armenia is a major obstacle to the progress of the negotiations. the stability of the south caucasus is an objective we must achieve and the eu cannot get closer to azerbaijan and armenia without a regional dynamic. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime.
in writing. since 1 july 1999, the european union has been linked to armenia by a partnership and association agreement. the vote on this resolution enabled the european parliament to make recommendations on the negotiations with yerevan. as a member of the delegation to the eu-armenia, eu-azerbaijan and eu-georgia parliamentary cooperation committees, i welcome this agreement which will strengthen relations between the european union and the south caucasus. i am campaigning for a peaceful and lasting solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. we must give a central role to the minsk group which is conducting the peace negotiations. i would like to stress the major role played by france, a historic partner in the region, in the work of this group and the absolute need to retain its rightful place in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. the negotiations for an association agreement between the european union and armenia are well under way. i therefore welcomed the motion for a resolution which welcomes the reforms undertaken in armenia to incorporate the good practices and recommendations of the european union in the areas of justice, freedom and security, including the tangible results in the area of migration. we are, however, looking forward to the parliamentary elections on 6 may in the country, which must be free and fair. but i have full confidence in armenia and its willingness to cooperate with the european union. however, as in the resolution on azerbaijan, we call on the country to take action to resolve the nagorno-karabakh conflict, a destructive conflict that has been going on since the collapse of the ussr. we condemned the militarization of the region and the high military expenditure of both countries, and call on their leaders to moderate their words and avoid inflammatory statements, so as to open the way to a genuine dialogue.
in writing. i share the rapporteur's view that we need to strengthen the dialogue with our various partners in general. the european union must support armenia in its efforts to strengthen democracy, encourage economic development and increase the efficiency of its institutions. it is also important to me to demand that armenia show its willingness to resolve the nagorno-karabakh conflict by continuing the negotiation process initiated by the minsk group. the stability of the caucasus is an important issue for the european union and the refugee problem needs to be addressed. i would also like to note that parliament will be kept informed of the implementation of the association agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which allows for the establishment of a free trade area facilitating the export of european products to the region. as the text underlines, in view of the forthcoming elections in armenia, it is important that the european union's partners respect the democratic values that we hold dear. in the same vein, we recall the importance of respect for the principles of international law in the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict which has lasted for too long. armenia, like all the actors in the region, must make efforts to find a negotiated solution quickly in the framework of the minsk group so that the peoples can enjoy lasting peace.
in writing. the report gives prominence to the unresolved conflict between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh, which began more than 20 years ago. however, there is a certain imbalance in the recommendations on nagorno-karabakh in the treatment of allegations against the armenian authorities. while these recommendations are intended to promote a rapid resolution of the conflict, they could have a counterproductive effect, breaking the parallelism of european language towards armenia and azerbaijan. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to clarify the european parliament's position on the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and armenia. the association agreement aims to strengthen political dialogue as well as economic integration (through the establishment of a free trade area) between the parties. the report encourages armenia to continue its efforts towards democratisation and supports the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which seeks to defend the european parliament's position in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the conclusion of an association agreement between the european union and armenia. the agreement aims to deepen relations between the european union and armenia in the political and economic fields and provides for the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. the report also highlights the efforts made by armenia to respect human rights and calls on the country to be particularly vigilant in the upcoming presidential elections, scheduled for 2013.
in writing. the association agreement which i supported in plenary aims to deepen relations between the eu and armenia. armenia's european aspirations are an excellent lever for democratization, which must be used to accelerate the implementation of reforms. in accordance with the principle of the 'more for more' approach, it is on this condition that armenia's european integration will continue at a steady pace. sectoral cooperation between the eu and armenia should strengthen political dialogue, but also socioeconomic integration and legal convergence. the eu-armenia rapprochement is also of a regional nature. the conflict in nagorno-karabakh is seriously undermining the development and stability of the south caucasus. above all, the tensions it creates isolate armenia and encourage it to adopt a policy towards iran that does not correspond to that of the eu. the alternative of european integration is, in my view, the best solution to be found.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a great deal in a short time in terms of european budgetary discipline. what we did was necessary, because in 2008 or last autumn, we came very close to disaster and we almost lost everything: the euro, our financial system, but above all our credibility in the world and our social model. we have equipped ourselves with instruments of enhanced discipline. all this had to be done because europe had to regain its credibility. all this was necessary to create the conditions for a return to growth. growth, as the real engine for overcoming the crisis, must be at the heart of our discussions, starting with this afternoon's debate. this growth is not going to be decreed, but we can create the conditions for the return of sustainable growth. how did you do that? firstly, by focusing on european policies that promote growth and employment and leaving the others on the back burner. this means that we must carry out a qualitative audit of european public expenditure quickly so that we can make an informed decision. the european budget must be one of the key instruments for the recovery of the european economy. that is why, after having done the same for budgetary discipline, i am proposing a joint initiative to establish a growth logic and to force us to do so. an initiative that would make the union budget our common reserve for investment. the principle of growth must be made equivalent to the principle of subsidiarity. the principle is that every proposal and policy of the union should in future demonstrate its contribution to growth. no growth potential, no spending to speak of. that should be our rule for the next two years. this principle could be applied, for example, to business agreements. are we gaining market share or losing it? are we gaining jobs or losing them? the other point i am very keen on, as you know, is the single market. twenty years after its launch, i say and i repeat, we have an obligation to realize it fully. our 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises need it, because unlike the large groups, they cannot cope with the competitive gaps that still exist today. yes, we must do this for our smes, the very ones which, in the last ten years, have created 85% of new jobs. today, business leaders are accused of being rich. you know as well as i do that these heads of small and mediumsized enterprises earn only 1 000 to 1 200 euros at most and are looking for contracts to guarantee employment to the workers in their smes. again, my dear josé manuel barroso, we must support them so that the banks finance these small and mediumsized enterprises. they're letting them go, and that's not normal. we need to put in place much more effective support. we must be much more stringent in maintaining support for small and mediumsized enterprises. these are jobs that exist and we don't want to lose them. i would add another point to the completion of the single market: the reduction of paperwork and red tape, which alone costs our economy almost 40 billion euros. let's make this really simple. ladies and gentlemen, the growth we need to revive our economy is not the growth of the day after tomorrow. what we need now is to increase rapidly the value added that our companies generate. what we need is to get productivity gains in public services. what we need is an employment policy adapted to the new situation, and i welcome the proposals adopted by the commission this morning in this regard. the markets' confidence in the union has been restored. it will continue to be achieved at the cost of discipline and unprecedented solidarity between europeans. this solidarity was unthinkable two years ago. i also welcome the plan presented by the commission to put the greek economy and public finances on a sustainable path and to guarantee the financial stability of the country and of the euro area as a whole. it is now up to our greek friends, whose courage i commend, to maintain the course before and after the next elections. ladies and gentlemen, we must use the new momentum to move up the scale by urgently refocusing the union's action and budget on real growth. i thank the commission - josé manuel and his whole team - for their action, which is not an easy task, and i also ask the member states to step up their efforts, since they are the ones who have caused the deficits. so now is the time for them to get back on track to restore growth and jobs. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". i'll do what my comrade georges marchais did. i didn't quite understand the question, but that's my answer. my dear friend, the european people's party is responsible for what happens in the various countries, because we take responsibility. if we've made mistakes, we have to own up to them. that's the first point. as regards the second point, i do not understand what you are saying on behalf of my group. we voted the six-pack, that was the first point. we are preparing the two-pack, and i hope it will be with you, on the model of growth and employment. what i said too.... i don't understand what you meant... i am also a business manager who volunteers to run my small business with 160 employees. i'm not taking a penny. we have been through four or five difficult times and each time, with my employees, we have come out of the rut. but we are not out of the crisis yet, and that is why i am still determined to keep the jobs we have and to create new ones. that's my answer, my dear friend.
mr president of the commission, i think that the majority of my colleagues are extremely unfair to you. they voted on all the texts which are largely responsible for the present situation. they have voted for all the free trade texts, all the texts which make this european economic area no longer protected against the savage competition which is being offered to us by the industrializing countries. the crisis is really a structural crisis, as everyone knows. it is essentially the result of the deindustrialization of a large part of europe or, at any rate, of the loss of the kind of industrial quasi-monopoly which we have enjoyed up to now. the crisis is also due to the inflation of public expenditure, but this inflation of public expenditure has had a name for a very long time: it is socialism. this is socialism! the creeping socialism which has been practiced with great laxity and ease by the so-called liberal regimes. however, mr president of the commission, before i close, i would like to ask you a question. the debate has been raging for three days in france, before the first round of the presidential election, over a mysterious text entitled "for a growth rich in jobs". the journalists had access to this text. the media say that the commissioner in charge of the dossier is to present it today in strasbourg. today perhaps, in strasbourg certainly, but certainly not to members unless the stunning statements you have just made about employment do so. i couldn't find that text. i have, however, found comments and even denials by commission officials of those comments. how can such a palinody be reached on such a crucial subject? mr president of the commission, when i heard you advocate economic and financial austerity, i had the impression that president herbert hoover in the united states in the 1930s promised that prosperity was just around the corner. i'm not sure that the promise he made was much more serious than the one you're making to us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by marisa matias (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". thank you very much for your question, mr president. i'll try to be brief. i have identified two causes of the current crisis, two seemingly contradictory causes, it is true. but i think mr barroso, who is himself somewhat the personal embodiment of this contradiction, will understand me very well. on the one hand, it is indeed free trade in general. this is not socialism at all. it's the destruction of our protections from the outside. and, on the other hand, it is socialism on the internal level. these are the excesses, these are the abuses of the welfare state. it is the multiplication, in my country, of unnecessary public expenditure, for example, which has been practiced in a social democratic spirit by all successive governments, including those that claim to be liberal. this is the over-representation of the public sector in the overall economy of the country. all of this has a name, and it's called...
mr president, mr president of the commission, you said that you were in favour of debt mutualisation. you will tell us what steps you have taken in this direction and, above all, if you think that this mutualisation is useful, necessary, how have you reacted to the new proposal drawn up by eurex which, in reality, destroys the internal capital market within the european union, allows speculation against a member state and pushes back the prospect of a mutualisation of debt a little further. i would also like to know, mr president of the commission, whether the outgoing french authorities have informed you of the conditions for examining the national reform plan and the stability and convergence programme this year for france, taking into account the electoral calendar of that country. finally, as regards the decisions taken by your college this morning on the so-called jobs package, i wonder what the consequences will be for your neighbour, mr rehn, as regards the austerity policies which are being promoted in his portfolio. i hear the answer is to say "austerity first, then employment". let us believe that this is not the solution and that what we are seeing today in greece and spain indicates that another way must be possible, one based on a pact of growth, responsibility and governance. so, mr president of the commission, can you give us an assurance that between your two pillars, your employment pillar and your economic pillar, you will make a synthesis that is in the service of european citizens and job creation?
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the commission, just as much as the recovery of public finances, the question of growth is at the heart of the success of the european strategy. what would be the role of the ecb, which has shown extraordinary creativity during the financial crisis? let's not get this wrong. it is not a question of any revision of the treaty, which is totally unrealistic. the aim is to create the right political conditions for the ecb to step up its action by buying up sovereign debt on the secondary market and injecting liquidity into the financial system. experience shows that this is possible within the current legal framework without undermining the ecb's independence or its tasks. it is a question of european solidarity and political will, not of legal status. but the recovery of public finances and the prevention of crisis risks remain imperative. the economic government of the euro area is being strengthened. the mechanisms for detecting, preventing and sanctioning misconduct have been strengthened by the six-pack. the two-pack is under negotiation and it is important that we reach a conclusion quickly. the negotiations must in particular make it possible to develop effective concrete measures for the benefit of member states in difficulty or with excessive deficits. in this respect, we must ensure that democratic control is normally exercised at european level to make the measures taken in this context acceptable to the population, to the citizens. finally, i would like to stress the value of the commission's proposal being supplemented by a legal protection system for a state in very serious difficulties - not to encourage laxity but, on the contrary, to enable it to recover and meet its obligations - this status being controlled by the commission under the control of the council and parliament.
in writing. a great deal of work has been done on financial stability: good job! but who can understand that spain or italy borrow at 6% from banks and banks borrow at 1% from the european central bank. i propose that ad hoc insolvency bodies be set up in each euro area member state, with a banking licence, to deal with bad debt exceeding the ratios allowed by the stability pact. i propose a political debate between the national parliaments and the european parliament on the savings to be made on public expenditure (e.g. armies, diplomatic buildings, research programmes) at the three levels: state, europe and region, and this on the basis of an independent audit which could be conducted by the european court of auditors and the 27 national audit offices. i reiterate the idea of a major investment plan of eur 1 000 to 1 500 billion over the eu 2020 period and the creation of an investment section in the european budget. finally, i regret the absence of president van rompuy from this debate, because it is becoming urgent to convene a european council with growth as the sole agenda.
in writing. excessive deficits in the euro area have provided a breeding ground for speculators who have made large profits by betting on the deterioration of sovereign debt. this unbridled speculation has created a climate of mistrust, destabilised the whole continent and undermined investor confidence. with spain now in the sights of the markets, it is imperative to continue to clean up public finances in order to restore the confidence that is essential for a sustainable recovery of economic activity. in addition to the efforts to improve public accounts, which i stress is an essential condition for building sustainable growth, we must carry out strong reforms capable of boosting the recovery. i therefore support your proposal, mr president, to reduce the tax burden on labour by transferring part of it to vat, in order to promote employment and the competitiveness of our workforce. such a measure will facilitate our exports and support our trade surplus. finally, i believe that the ecb should also contribute to the growth objectives by lending directly to the member states rather than through the banks. this direct injection of fresh money would then unclog the economic machine and support the real economy.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i am very surprised at the dramatization that is taking place in this house. you are trying to make us believe that there is a problem of legal certainty for european investments in argentina. in fact, against the free choice of the argentine government, against the national sovereignty of the argentine people, you are defending the interests of a private oil company, repsol, whose capital is more than half in the hands of foreign owners and which, together with its subsidiary ypf, makes considerable profits in argentina, pays nearly 16 billion in dividends to its shareholders and organises tax evasion to avoid paying taxes, all this at the expense of argentine workers and local people, disregarding indigenous peoples and the environment. you are not here to defend european citizens or even the interests of one of the member states, but private international capital. why not reverse your question and consider that the argentine government is trying to stop the plundering of some of the oil wealth belonging to the argentine people? why not recognize the right of the argentine government to defend its economic and political sovereignty when repsol was contributing to the fuel shortage in that country? finally, it should be recalled that this company had been privatised in the name of debt reduction. it was after the war that argentina came under the auspices of the international monetary fund. how austerity and privatization, the destruction of sovereignty, as in greece, leads to disorder. for now, let's leave argentina in control of its own destiny.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the proposal for a directive aims to establish a common consolidated corporate tax base within the european union, known as accis. this is the question that has been under consideration since 2004. today, when parliament is called upon to give its opinion, it wishes, through the report by marianne thyssen, to give you - in any case, that is the wish of the epp - a strong signal to encourage the commission to continue its action in this area. the establishment of a ccctb in the european union has many advantages, both for economic operators by removing tax obstacles within the internal market and for member states by allowing for more transparent and therefore healthier tax competition between member states. the report which was voted by the econ committee and which was tabled by mrs thyssen is excellent. after lengthy negotiations and finding a clever synthesis to deal as well as possible with a very delicate point, that of the optional or optional nature of the system, it proposed - and was agreed - that the process should be carried out in stages, with a system that would be mandatory immediately for european companies and cooperatives, and then an extension after five years once the commission had delivered an opinion, leaving aside the case of smes. i think, commissioner, that the commission must be demanding in this area. i know that the proposal does not receive the full support of several member states, either because of opposition in principle, such as the united kingdom's opposition to any tax harmonization, or because of fears that would be raised by the implementation of this measure. this is the case, for example, in poland, the netherlands or luxembourg. we have to move on. it is essential for the european union that this consolidated basis, which does not imply harmonization of rates, be put in place. this is the meaning of the approach taken by the epp to you.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the political will she has shown in this matter. we all know that some member states are playing on the corporate tax base to lower their effective tax levels in a more or less hidden way and to practice tax dumping. that is why we as socialists and federalists have always supported the idea of moving towards greater tax harmonization within the european union. unfortunately, by proposing a consolidated base which is only optional, the european commission was not seeking to take a first step in the harmonization of corporate taxation, but merely to create an instrument for tax optimisation. this was not acceptable to our political family, because the europe we believe in is not a europe made to measure serving only the interests of the corporations. it is above all a political and social europe built for all, with all. as the fictitious rapporteur for the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i have been fighting for months to radically change the logic of the commission's text, namely to move from an optional system to a compulsory system and to introduce a minimum level of taxation. the negotiations were not easy, but we managed to come to an agreement because, beyond our political differences - which are important - we all shared, around the table, an ambitious vision of europe. the rapporteur, despite her initial reluctance, has finally accepted the principle of a mandatory accis for all large companies in the union. unfortunately, we have not succeeded in establishing a floor rate, but the report clearly mentions the problems of too wide a gap in rates and calls for this question of rates to be reviewed when the text is being reviewed, which we will do because we consider this to be a second essential step. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your full support to mrs thyssen's report. we will thus send a strong message to the council and above all to the citizens who are the first victims of the evils of tax competition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the technical nature of this report should not obscure the urgency of its adoption. due to the severity of the crisis and the scarcity of financing, greece is currently suffocated by delays in major infrastructure works. these major works are essential for the economic development and recovery of the country's growth. the greek state is under threat of heavy fines - estimated by some to be more than one billion euros - from its dealers for delays, but also from the european union for non-compliance with certain directives, including environmental ones. on the other hand, greece is having difficulty using its structural funds, despite the efforts made by the union to speed up absorption, in particular by increasing the share of european co-financing by 10 points. we are therefore in a paradoxical situation where governments, with financial assistance, not only cannot spend the money available but are more likely to be fined by those who are trying to help them. i would therefore like to commend the work of the rapporteur, mrs danuta hübner, who convinced the council to accept the commission's proposal to use the structural funds as a guarantee fund to streamline the financing of infrastructure projects and thus attract private investors. i fully support this report, but i would like to go further. the european union is wrongly accused of being only an instrument of austerity and austerity. on the contrary, this report shows that europe can be effective if it uses all the tools at its disposal to boost growth, help improve the state of public finances and support investment in future projects.
mr president, madam commissioner, swift, acta, pnr are acronyms that are often mentioned and which worry europeans who do not really know what they are talking about. what are the realities behind it? a too-general surveillance of all passengers, an agreement that if i take a flight, the united states will know what my food tastes are, how i behave at the airport, my health, etc. without going back to all the arguments that were put forward this morning in a long but exciting debate, we had - i would like to recall - asked for guarantees as early as 2007, as many red lines that would have allowed us to get parliament's agreement. but today we do not have them, either in terms of reciprocity or in terms of proportionality, as our excellent colleague graham watson has said, in relation to the position of the united states, and i disagree with mrs foster's statement that there is not much in the pnrs. if there is not much, then let us ask for reciprocity in the united states. here and there in this house, we are told that this is the best we could get, that we will get nothing more, that we must ask the judges. it is unacceptable to discharge our responsibilities in this way. it is up to us to create the conditions for a balance, for european democracy, between security, the fight against terrorism and the preservation of freedoms. that is why i shall be voting against this agreement.
mr president, finally, since the beginning of this debate, there are not many members who consider that this agreement does not in any way infringe the fundamental rights of european citizens. some people just say, "it's better than nothing. it would be worse if there was no deal. and finally, if we have a little bit of a taste for our rights, if we have the security counterpart, we can find each other". that's what we've been talking about. we all know very well - we not only say it, we have shown it - that a policy to combat terrorism, in order to be effective, not just moral or to meet international obligations, must fully respect human rights, international law and our obligations. it is very hard to believe that this agreement could not be overturned by a court, if we were not able to take political responsibility here, because that is what it is all about. will we stand by the european citizens, because the past shows that they can only rely on the european parliament in these areas, or will we be impressed by threats? because the past speaks, after all! in the framework of the system set up by the cia, where there have been secret prisons, illegal transfers, torture on our territory, who have we found on our side in the council, in the commission, to conduct the investigations and find those responsible? no one is! we want to cooperate. we have no accounting mechanism when services go beyond the legal framework. and that is a serious question. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8)).
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i said that in our debate as parliamentarians, no one denied that we were seriously undermining the rights of citizens. you say the citizens don't know. but you're making your case worse, mrs. foster. it's a serious problem when you take people's personal data without them being able to control it, let alone know about it. i sincerely believe that it is not reasonable to embark on a path, and we will tell the european citizens that, where they could find themselves caught in an american-style counter-terrorism system, with military courts without procedural guarantees, with endless lock-ups, and without charges. i really believe that the european citizen deserves to be informed of the fate you want to bring upon him, mrs foster.
madam president, i would like to stress two points which i think are important to mention in the preamble: we are not hostile to the pnr in general and, more generally, the fight against terrorism remains one of our major concerns. this being the case, while it may be agreed that a compromise is still the result of concessions on both sides and therefore imperfect, it should not be at the expense of one party. the impression that prevails here is that the european commission has nothing to do with it. at this stage, the arguments put forward are not able to convince us all to vote in favour of this agreement. while progress has been made, it remains largely insufficient and in no way addresses the concerns expressed by the same parliament in may and november 2010: non-compliance with the principles of necessity and proportionality, insufficiently precise purpose, excessive duration of detention, too broad scope, limited judicial recourse. in short, the list of reservations that can be addressed is very long. this is regrettable, because the agreement was intended to be an opportunity to ensure that the high standards of data protection which are specific to the european union prevail. i also find it difficult to understand the logic of the statement which the commission is proposing. today we are promised that parliament will be kept regularly and fully informed. thankfully! we are also told that if parliament finds shortcomings in this agreement and requests its suspension, the commission undertakes to consider its request with the greatest care. thank god again! it seems to me paradoxical, however, that we have been hammering away for several months that the agreement is not negotiable, only to then make sure that the commission can negotiate it. it's a long shot. i'll vote against this deal.
madam president, although slavery was abolished in the nineteenth century, many children, women and men are still victims of human trafficking every day in europe. they are domestic slaves, prostitutes, beggars, illegal workers, who live a real ordeal of physical violence, humiliation and at every stage of this hell, it is indignation. in addition, nearly 40% of the victims are children. these people are kidnapped, held against their will, beaten, subjected to sexual violence and other forms of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment, deprived of their rights. the union, the member states of the union have a historic responsibility, as you have said, madam commissioner, and we must act together to deal with this criminal phenomenon which violates all human rights, particularly those of women. but above all, of course, the union has a responsibility to protect the most fragile, the most vulnerable, which are children. the commissioner, with regard to this cooperation, if the directive is indeed a step forward, it is your duty to control the responsibility of the member states with concrete, tangible measures, so that we can eliminate this real cancer which is an offence against the foundations of our democratic societies and the values which have underpinned the construction of europe. what will you do about the obligations of the member states to implement the directive? secondly, what about the mass information and awareness campaign? and finally, what about the collection of information on human trafficking and what actions could be taken on the basis of this data collection?
mr president, this is how a good idea can turn into a punishment for employees and their families. how can we oppose the idea of reducing the production of co2, this deadly gas? how can we counteract the drive to control energy consumption, the chase after waste? but why, then, go after only the little ones? the major sectors of activity such as air transport, maritime transport, agriculture and transport will benefit from exemptions until 2023. so, will the big transport company benefit from exemptions when its truck driver pays full price? the large agricultural firm will thus benefit from exemptions when the farm worker, who has a small salary, pays full price. children who have no choice because for years they have been told that diesel is the cheapest fuel and they are trapped in their car because they cannot afford to change it. so if you needed to find money, i have a few clues, i'll give them to you quickly: we could have taken from the profits of the big oil companies, taken from the waste of public money, taken from the profits of the big car groups and also, why not, taken from the profits of the credit institutions that lend money to buy the cars.
in writing. as a major consumer of wood products, the european union has developed an action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). this action plan is being implemented through partnership agreements with producing countries such as the central african republic. i voted in favour of this agreement which will put in place a package of measures to combat illegal logging by monitoring the supply chain and promoting sustainable practices.
in writing. in december 2005, the council of ministers authorised the european commission to negotiate partnership agreements with timber producing countries in order to implement the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) and, in particular, to encourage trade and imports into the union of verified legal timber from these partner countries. 31% of the territory of the central african republic is covered by tropical forests. the forestry sector is the country's largest private employer, accounting for 4% of gdp and 40% of total export earnings. the european union therefore has a strong interest in signing these agreements. however, we do not want to involuntarily participate in illegal or parallel activities that may be taking place in the central african republic. we need to ensure that small forestry companies operating on the national market are professional, profitable and sustainable. this is all that is provided for in the agreement, which guarantees free trade but imposes conditions.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to implement the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in wood products to the eu. the european parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of the agreement, which refers to supply chain control, the legal compliance regime and the audit conditions.
in writing. just as i had spoken in favour of the flegt agreements with ghana, congo and cameroon, i supported the one with the central african republic at this plenary session. this voluntary partnership system allows the whole supply chain to be monitored and thus a real improvement in the trading conditions of the wood and wood products sector. in practice, the agreement enhances transparency and civil society participation, and aims to put an end to illegal exploitation. the effects of this agreement will be all the more important as the forestry sector is the country's largest private employer, accounting for 4% of gdp and 40% of the country's total export earnings. the agreement will also provide an opportunity to assess on the ground the proper application of indigenous peoples' rights, as local communities and civil society have strongly demanded respect for the right to consultation enshrined in ilo convention no. 169, which was ratified by the country in 2010.
in writing. as a major consumer of wood products, the european union has developed an action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). this action plan is being implemented through partnership agreements with producing countries such as liberia. i voted in favour of this agreement which will put in place a package of measures to combat illegal logging by monitoring the supply chain and promoting sustainable practices.
in writing. in december 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate partnership agreements with timber producing countries in order to implement the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) and, in particular, to encourage trade and imports into the union of certified legal timber from these partner countries. as with the central african republic, the commission has begun negotiations with liberia. similarly, we want to ensure the legality of timber imports into the european union, and that is why the agreement provides for supply chain controls, a framework for checking legal compliance and independent audit requirements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to implement the european union action plan on forest regulations, governance and trade. the european parliament has therefore given its approval to this agreement. the aim of this agreement with liberia is to develop forest management and to combat illegal logging.
in writing. just as i had spoken in favour of the flegt agreements with ghana, congo and cameroon, i supported the one with liberia at this plenary session. this voluntary partnership system allows the whole supply chain to be monitored and thus a real improvement in the trading conditions of the wood and wood products sector. in practice, the agreement enhances transparency and civil society participation, and aims to put an end to illegal exploitation. however, it should be stressed that the government of liberia must demonstrate strong political will by supplementing the financial means provided by other donors from the european union to support communities and civil society organisations and by adopting a decree to give legal status to the steering committee provided for in the agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hübner report which will enable countries in crisis to mobilise the risk-sharing instrument. through this instrument, these countries can redirect part of the regional funds allocated to them. these funds will be entrusted to the european commission, which will enter into a risk-sharing partnership with the eib. the aim is to guarantee the risks incurred by private investors participating in projects partly financed by the regional funds.
in writing. the risk-sharing instrument can increase private sector participation in financing major projects in european countries particularly affected by the crisis in order to create jobs and growth. i therefore gave my consent so that greece, and then the other countries in difficulty, could relaunch major infrastructure projects blocked by lack of liquidity, and by the frivolity of banks and private investors. my experience with cohesion policy funds allows me to say that the money from the uncommitted european regional development fund (erdf) will be a solid guarantee for greece to cover part of the risks associated with private loans. it is therefore a risk-sharing instrument between the commission and the european investment bank. austerity packages in the economies most affected by the crisis have not generated growth because of the dysfunction of the banking sectors and the fear of too much risk. there is therefore an urgent need to unlock eib loans and guarantees to enable private sector involvement in projects that will generate growth and jobs,' my colleague danuta hübner, who is responsible for the report, rightly pointed out.
in writing. the adoption of the hübner report is very good news for the return to growth within the union. i welcome the introduction of the new risk-sharing instrument for lending. the latter should allow for the unlocking of new financing from the private sector. i share the rapporteur's view that financial aid schemes should be strengthened to facilitate productive investment. the report presents common sense measures to deal with the difficulties faced by greece, ireland, portugal and romania. i note that the council agrees with the european parliament's position. this again demonstrates that this report is balanced and that it meets a need.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will enable nations whose financial stability is threatened by speculators to obtain aid to regain the confidence of lenders and thus maintain their investment projects. i welcome the introduction of a risk limiting cap for lenders. the union is thus supporting its countries in the face of this crisis, while at the same time working to regain the confidence of the markets.
in writing. cohesion policy is the only real mechanism for redistributing wealth available to the union. the richest countries participate through these funds in the development and development programmes of the poorest regions. this policy must be maintained if it is to achieve its long-standing objective of combating the disparity in wealth between the regions of europe. the economic crisis in the union is hitting the poorest and most backward regions most hard. these regions need more than ever to continue their public investments in order to combat the adverse effects of the crisis. we have been calling since the beginning of the crisis for the commission to abandon the principle of co-financing for the poorest and most deprived regions of the union, namely that it finances 100% of the programmes planned since 2007 by the most deprived regions. unfortunately, that is not the solution that has been chosen. it is through the loan, and thus through the continuation of the indebtedness of the most difficult states and regions, that the commission wishes to continue financing the projects which were to be carried out through cohesion policy. we strongly disagree.
in writing. parliament approved the amending regulation to combat the crisis by providing financial assistance through the structural funds to member states in serious financial difficulties or threatened with such difficulties. these are the states currently receiving financial assistance, in particular greece. this risk-sharing mechanism is intended to enable private financing to be mobilised for the implementation of productive investment and infrastructure projects which can only be partially financed by public funds. in times of crisis, the risk of disengagement by private investors is high. the european union is therefore proposing, with the assistance of the european investment bank (eib), to partially cover the risks involved in lending to banks and developers in these failing states, to enable revenue-generating projects to be completed. this aid scheme is not without conditions. the budgetary ceiling for the risk-sharing instrument is specified in advance and only projects which have received a favourable decision from the eib can benefit from this support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the creation of risk-sharing instruments for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the creation of such instruments can increase private sector participation in financing projects in european countries in difficulty in order to boost employment and growth. countries such as ireland, greece and portugal will be able to benefit from these schemes.
in writing. due to precarious financial stability, many eu countries are struggling to mobilise the private finance needed to implement the infrastructure and productive investments without which there can be no growth. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has adopted this commission proposal to create a sharing instrument which will reassure private operators and thus encourage them to participate in the recovery of the economy.
in writing. i supported this report. the european parliament has shown through this text that it is fully aware of the successive crises we have just experienced and that it is creative in its approach to finding ways and means of overcoming them. i also welcome the creation of a risk-sharing mechanism to cover some of the risk associated with lending to banks. this could increase private sector participation in financing projects in crisis-affected member states and thus foster employment and growth. the european countries most affected by the crisis will be able to benefit from this macroeconomic support.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a further response to the current economic and financial crisis. in this exceptional context, this text constitutes an exception to the rules for implementing cohesion policy. the new provisions will allow member states to transfer part of their regional funding directly to the commission on request. for example, a risk-sharing agreement on a regional project may be concluded between a financial institution and the commission. the purpose of this provision is to convince private investors to take part in regional development projects.
in writing. cohesion policy is the only real mechanism for redistributing wealth that the european union has. the richest countries contribute to the development of the poorest regions through these funds. this policy must pursue the objective which has always been its aim: to combat the disparity in wealth between the regions of europe. the economic crisis is hitting the poorest and most backward regions hardest. these regions need more than ever to continue public investment to counter the adverse effects of the crisis. we have been calling on the european commission since the beginning of the crisis to abandon the principle of cofinancing for the most deprived regions of the european union. we ask the european commission to finance 100% of the programmes that have been planned since 2007 by the most disadvantaged regions. unfortunately, that is not the solution. the european commission wants to continue financing the projects that were to be carried out under cohesion policy by lending to and continuing to take on debt from the most disadvantaged member states and regions. i refute that.
in writing. this week we reached agreement on a sensitive issue: the transfer of air passenger data from the european union to the united states. i have approved the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the use and transfer of passenger name record data from the european union to the united states, which was the subject of this vote.
in writing. since the september 11 attacks, the united states has increased controls on access to its territory, including flights to the united states. since 2007, an interim agreement between the united states and the european union has governed the transfer of airline passenger data to the us department of homeland security. this week we voted to replace that agreement with another, which i approved. this new agreement raises the level of protection of european passenger data.
in writing. the transfer of eu air passenger data to the us was approved after much debate. since europeans are exempt from visa requirements when travelling to the united states, washington has been asking us for several years to hand over passenger data as part of its fight against terrorism. this data is the name, address, or seat number or the reference of the passengers' luggage. the question which has divided the european parliament is that of the conservation and use of this data. the new agreement provides that these data will be accessible for only six months and then permanently deleted after five years. i voted in favour of this agreement because it guarantees better protection against terrorism while ensuring respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. we had resisted so far in 2004 and 2007, but this time the ep gave the green light to the eu-us agreement on the transfer of air passengers' personal data (pnr), despite the opposition claimed by rapporteur sophia in't veld. in line with mrs int'veld's warning, i rejected this new agreement, which completely destroys the safeguards necessary to ensure the protection of personal data and the respect for passengers' privacy. the agreement is based, for the most part, on blind trust in the us authorities. in concrete terms, the "nominative passenger" data will be kept for 15 years, and in anonymous form for an indefinite period, without any real judicial recourse outside the territory of the united states. it is a denial of individual liberties and a legal aberration. such processing of passenger data is simply unacceptable and incompatible with the principles of proportionality and purpose, since personal and commercial data of an undetermined number of non-suspect persons are processed for security and counter-terrorism purposes. the concern remains as to the precedent this agreement sets for future agreements of this kind with third countries.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament has approved the agreement between the european union and the united states on the transfer of passenger pnr data. i believe that it is necessary to facilitate the sharing of information in order to combat international crime more effectively. but this must be done in full transparency, and with respect for individual freedoms. the agreement found here enhances data security compared to the previous agreement in 2007. the data retention period has been reduced and passengers can consult their data at any time and, if necessary, modify it. in the fight against terrorism, i believe that agreements between the european union and a third country are more advantageous than bilateral agreements negotiated by individual member states.
in writing. i voted against this agreement. although the fight against terrorism is a major challenge for the european union and its partners, we believe that it must not be carried out at the expense of the fundamental freedoms of citizens. but far from respecting the principle of proportionality, this compromise did not represent sufficient progress in the protection of privacy to convince me to subscribe to it. this is all the more so since it seems difficult to assess the effectiveness of control or recording measures in the face of often unsophisticated terrorist acts. moreover, while these data should be used strictly only in the context of the fight against terrorism, the purposes are in reality very broad and very vague. the length of time for which data is retained, the necessary anonymisation and destruction of data, and the right of access, rectification and erasure for the citizens concerned are also important criteria which justify my refusal to accept this agreement. as my colleague sylvie guillaume has said, this is a regrettable situation because this agreement was intended to be an opportunity to ensure that the high standards of data protection that are specific to the european union prevail.
in writing. i have approved the so-called 'pnr' agreement between the european union and the united states. this agreement is necessary, both to ensure our security, but also to better protect our personal data. the agreement does not, of course, fully reflect the concerns expressed on several occasions by the european parliament. but it is worth noting the flexibility of the us authorities and the significant progress made, particularly in the context of the obligation to inform passengers, the possibility of access to data or the right to appeal. refusing to approve this agreement would have led to unjustifiable legal uncertainty and would have been detrimental to european citizens. a large majority of meps understood this and, as a matter of responsibility, approved this agreement.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which, following a renegotiation requested by the european parliament, strengthens the protection of our fellow citizens with regard to data transmitted to the us authorities. the eu is thus strengthening its cooperation with the us while remaining the master of the game, since the us will no longer be able to consult passenger data without the agreement of the europeans. with the conclusion of this agreement we put an end to the risk of a legal vacuum which is detrimental to our airlines.
in writing. i voted against the us-eu pnr agreement on the use and transfer of european passenger name record data. i opposed this agreement because the negotiations in parliament have not led to a compromise on the safeguards needed to protect the data of european passengers. nothing has been done to specify the purpose of the data, which is too vague, or to reduce their retention to 15 years without providing for subsequent destruction, or to guarantee that the member states concerned will consent to the transfer of data of their nationals to third countries. the list of data to be transferred is also disproportionate, leaves many fields open and does not provide for confidential treatment of sensitive data. finally, the agreement is very rigid, with legal proceedings before the american courts being limited for europeans, and the presence of the european parliament and the member states not provided for in the procedures for the revision of the agreement. i am therefore not contesting the objective of transatlantic cooperation against terrorism, but the means chosen to implement it, which run counter to the high standards of data protection advocated by the french socialists.
in writing. two years after the european parliament rejected the 2007 us-eu agreement on the transfer of european air passenger data, i am pleased that our house has finally approved the new draft agreement. the 'pnr' data covers information relating to the number of the blue card, the price of the ticket, passport references, the address of destination, the seat number, etc. while the first version had provoked strong reactions from parliament about the risks of breaches of the protection of personal data, this new agreement strictly regulates their processing and provides legal certainty for airlines. in agreeing to this revised draft, parliament considered that a fair balance had been struck between the protection of personal data and the need to ensure the safety of passengers. it demonstrates the joint us and eu determination to fight terrorism with proven tools. above all, this agreement is a striking symbol of the strengthening of the transatlantic link, the will to cooperate and the mutual trust that unites our two continents in the face of threats.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which follows a rejection of the pnr agreement in may 2010 and a referral back to the commission for negotiation. the agreement, approved by the european parliament on 19 april 2012, ensures legal certainty for air passengers and airlines, and a high level of protection of personal data.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has given its approval to the conclusion of this new agreement. it is a fundamental tool for strengthening the fight against terrorism. moreover, it avoids the transmission of data outside the scope of any regulation. in that sense, it was my duty to approve its conclusion.
in writing. the new pnr agreement with the united states provides satisfactory additional guarantees in the field of data protection, while at the same time strengthening the fight against terrorism. it gives european citizens a right of access, rectification of their personal data and a right of appeal. the transmission of data on european citizens will be strictly controlled and may only be carried out for the purposes of combating terrorism or serious transnational crime. the agreement also strengthens the security of european citizens by allowing the european union to benefit from us analyses of terrorist risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agreement is implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new pnr agreement because it strikes a balance between data protection and the security of european citizens. the united states, a historic partner, and europe share the same goal: the fight against terrorism. but as a member of the european parliament, i will continue to ensure that our high level of privacy protection is the standard in any agreement signed by the european union. finally, a rejection would be tantamount to leaving a legal vacuum for airlines and passengers. without the endorsement of europe, the united states would have preferred bilateral agreements. and the safeguards would have been insufficient for european passengers. it was to defend all these fundamental freedoms that the agreement had to be adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the international agreement between the european union and the united states on the use of 'passenger data'. the agreement approved today by the european parliament will create a clear legal framework for the exchange of such data. it is the result of long negotiations with our american partners and it provides far more guarantees for european citizens than the temporary agreement which has been in force until now. the tragedy in toulouse has shown us that we cannot slacken our efforts in the fight against terrorism ! this must be a priority for the european union and it can only be achieved through mutual help and close cooperation with our american partners. it is our duty to guarantee the highest level of security for european citizens.
in writing. the european parliament has a consultative power on taxation matters. in this case, we were consulted on the accis. it is not a question of having a common tax, the setting up of which remains the responsibility of the member states, but of having a common basis of calculation. the replacement of 27 tax bases by a single tax base will make it possible to strengthen the functioning of the internal market. from now on, companies will calculate their taxable profits on the basis of a common set of rules. i therefore voted in favour of such a scheme.
in writing. i approved the report by my colleague marianne thyssen, who supports the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the aim is to help businesses by harmonising the internal market. this means, for example, reducing paperwork (businesses will now have only one tax return to complete for all their activities in the european union, and their only contact will be the tax administration of the country where their head office is located). the cost of complying with 27 different tax systems will be greatly reduced. it will also make the eu more attractive to foreign investors by offering a single taxation system. we went further than the commission's proposal, in wanting this tax to become compulsory after five years for all companies, except for smes for whom it would remain optional because we have to protect them from any additional costs.
in writing. one of the causes of the current crisis in europe is the lack of fiscal coordination. we voted in favour of consolidating the common corporate tax base (ccctb) to establish a set of rules for calculating the taxable income of companies. the reform does not aim at tax harmonization, does not impose common tax rates but contributes to increased tax coordination between member states. while the commission had initially proposed a voluntary system, we felt that this system should be mandatory after a transitional period - which i fully agree with. this reform will of course be gradual: for the first five years, the ccctb will apply only to european companies and cooperatives. after a period of five years, this scheme will be extended to all enterprises except smes, which will, however, have the possibility of participating voluntarily. simplified accounting rules, reduction of bureaucracy, emphasis on economic and social aspects rather than purely fiscal considerations when companies choose their headquarters: it is high time to work in this direction to make progress in tax harmonization in europe.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this new accis scheme which allows europe to go one step further in supporting our businesses. this is an important step for businesses in our crossborder territories, since we are now removing new obstacles to their development. european companies will now be able to set up branches more easily throughout the union, while ensuring that there is no overtaxation. among the measures that will come into force, the one-stop-shop principle will make it easier for the smallest of our companies to deal with one and the same administration for all their branches, wherever they are in europe. our entrepreneurs should no longer be afraid to enter new territories outside our borders!
in writing. i voted for this report. it provides for the harmonisation of the content of the corporate tax base at european level, i.e. taxable profit, and for the possibility for companies and groups of companies operating within the internal market to add up the profits and losses of their subsidiaries located in different member states. the net result would then be distributed among these different states according to a mathematical formula and predefined factors. the european parliament has unanimously voted in favour of the gradual introduction of the mandatory nature of this consolidated common base, which is a major step forward in terms of political positioning against fiscal dumping and intra-european relocations. however, there is a key element missing in the fight against this phenomenon, because no agreement has been reached, and this was not the aim of this directive, on the tax rate per member state, which remains different. it is a political step forward, but it will be difficult for the council to take it up. this is only the first step in a long struggle to regulate the european market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to establish a common consolidated corporate tax base within the european union, known as accis. the common consolidated basis of assessment will be intended to apply to all undertakings established in the european union which so wish. member states will remain free to apply the tax rate they wish to the share of the accis base that would be allocated to them. the establishment of a ccctb in the european union has many advantages, both for economic operators - by eliminating tax obstacles within the internal market - and for the member states - by allowing for more transparent, and therefore healthier, tax competition between member states. these measures are in line with the work on franco-german convergence in corporate taxation, which is being pursued by nicolas sarkozy and angela merkel.
in writing. i supported this report on the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the accis is used to calculate the tax base for multinational companies and does not relate to the tax rates themselves. the introduction of such a system will reduce red tape for businesses, reduce costs linked to differences in tax systems between member states and make the eu more attractive to foreign investors.
in writing. the existence of tax rules specific to each member state of the european union is a major obstacle to the full realisation of the internal market. this is particularly true of corporation tax, where 27 different tax rates apply. this situation creates distortions of competition and is a handicap for european companies operating in more than one member state. that is why i supported the council's proposal to create a common corporate tax rate for the 27 member states of the european union.
in writing. in the field of energy taxation, the european parliament has a consultative power. in this case, the aim was to make recommendations to the council on the basis of the european commission's proposal to amend the taxation of fuels and electricity in the union. such a system would oblige the member states to respect, in their national tariffs, the differences which exist at the level of the minimum rates (principle of proportionality). this would lead to a rise in diesel prices and would be harmful to consumers and traders alike. i therefore opposed this tax neutrality.
in writing. another major topic of this plenary session was the taxation of energy products and electricity. with this revision, the commission aims to align the energy taxation framework with the eu's energy efficiency and climate change objectives. i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is responsible for this text. as such, i am committed on a daily basis to ensuring the best possible balance between achieving the european union's climate change objectives on the one hand and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies on the other. i personally voted against an increase in the tax on diesel and asked for a special scheme to protect those who use diesel in their daily work: farmers, transporters, taxi drivers, etc.
in writing. using the austerity period as a justification for rejecting environmental measures, the conservatives in the european parliament decided to postpone indefinitely the commission's proposal to remove tax benefits on certain energy and electricity products such as diesel. the majority of meps are therefore in favour of mechanisms that give a benefit to polluting fuels in the european energy taxation system. i denounce this competition, manufactured by hand, between social measures and environmental measures. i am committed to an ambitious environmental policy and i voted against mrs lulling's report. this report has oversimplified the commission's proposal to discredit it by explaining that the commission's draft directive on taxation would have a negative impact on social terms due to the increase in the prices of coal, natural gas, oil and diesel. false, since the aim is not to penalise diesel specifically, but to tax fuels neutrally, so that all fuels compete on the basis of their benefits and not their taxation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union. parliament has clearly shown that co2 emissions are harmful and that it is not reasonable, in a crisis, to tax energy consumption alone heavily. i note that the report as adopted takes a position in favour of taxation which is as fair as possible and which does not penalise diesel consumers. i believe that the objective of reducing co2 emissions should not be a brake on activity. i expect the council to follow the european parliament's position. this is the case for the competitiveness of companies and the purchasing power of european citizens.
in writing. i voted against the lulling report and against the european directive on energy taxation. not that it's unusual to tax energy, but it's already heavily taxed at the national level. the text will increase the tax burden by adding a tax on co2 emissions to a general tax on energy consumption. the french government, incidentally, is in favour of imposing this "carbon tax" at european level, knowing full well that it will raise the price of gasoline or heating for millions of impoverished citizens. the greatest flaw in this report is the alignment of the tax rates for products subject to the same use. in short, diesel taxed like gasoline, still with government support and a potential increase of 20 cents a litre at the pump. with the blessing of the french government, it's a bad blow to the french auto industry. as for you, my dear colleagues, you have shown a singular hypocrisy. you approved all this in committee and you reject some of it, the most annoying part, in plenary. it is not a question of substance, since you agree with it: it is just a question of avoiding problems before the elections! and to hand the baby over to the council...
in writing. the european parliament was consulted on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity. i voted in favour of mrs lulling's report, but i believe that in order to be understood and accepted by the citizens, this development must be gradual, taking account of the current socioeconomic realities. however, the cost of fuel is already a major burden on household incomes, and some households have begun to adjust their consumption patterns. that is why i opposed the principle of 'proportionality' between the different thresholds applicable to each type of energy, which would have the potential to increase the cost of diesel, a fuel widely used in france, very sharply. europe's environmental objectives must not be achieved at the expense of the objectives of employment, competitiveness and consumer protection, but they must all go hand in hand. the council, which alone has the power to take decisions on taxation, should hear this message from the members of parliament.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of mrs lulling's report on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union. the draft directive proposes to revise the minimum rates of energy taxation. the methodology proposed by the european commission would have led to considering energy as bad in principle, whereas emissions are harmful. it would have led to a substantial increase in excise duties on diesel fuel in most member states, notably in france. we have been very active in preventing excessive taxation of diesel vehicles which would harm consumers, our farmers and the competitiveness of our companies, particularly in the energy and road sectors. although only consulted, the european parliament has sent a clear signal to the council: we want a green europe, but also a europe that protects our competitiveness, our jobs and the purchasing power of europeans.
in writing. i have supported this report on the revision of the rules governing energy taxation in the european union, to which the european parliament is contributing through a consultation procedure. the aim of this revision is to bring the framework for the taxation of energy products into line with the objectives pursued at european level in the field of energy efficiency and the fight against global warming. i particularly opposed the continuation of the proportionality principle proposed by the european commission, as this would lead to a significant increase in the tax rate of diesel (and therefore its price) by aligning it with the tax rate of petrol, which would have negative consequences both for european consumers and for the european automobile industry.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report and even more so of amendment no 53 which abolishes proportionality, i.e. the commission's proposal to tax fuels on the basis of their energy efficiency and not on the basis of the pollution generated by their combustion. according to this logic, diesel, which offers better energy efficiency than petrol, should have been taxed more heavily (390 euros per tonne against 359 euros for petrol). in this period of constantly rising fuel prices, it was necessary to defend the purchasing power of the french, who use diesel engines more than their european neighbours.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague astrid lulling on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union. in view of the successive crises that have hit the world economy and our continent hard, we here express our disagreement with the commission's proposal to change the energy taxation system in the eu, which could lead to a significant increase in the price of diesel at the pump. with this report, we, the members of the european parliament, are taking a firm stand to preserve the purchasing power of our citizens and to maintain the competitiveness of our companies. the report thus emphasizes the need to meet the legitimate expectations of economic operators, consumers and farmers, who all use diesel fuel for their activities.
in writing. for the period 2020-2030, europe has set itself ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gases. we want to increase the share of renewable energy in production, and reduce the use of fossil fuels that are too harmful. the protection of the environment is a fundamental issue for the maintenance of a certain quality of life for future generations. but this will not be achieved by putting a burden on purchasing power today, or by threatening a whole section of the economy of our countries from the outset, especially in the midst of the crisis. it is by conducting an educational and incentive policy that we will change the habits of our way of life. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution as a whole, because it is a duty, but against the principle of proportionality, which would have caused fuel prices to explode in the coming years.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the taxation of energy products which adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy which is also energy efficient. the report does not, however, provide for excessive taxation of diesel, which would have a serious impact on consumers, farmers and the competitiveness of european companies. in this period of economic crisis, i believe that a rise in the price of diesel would have been an irresponsible decision, the main victim of which would have been the purchasing power of millions of europeans.
in writing. i voted against this revision of the directive to prevent distortions of competition in the energy sector. theoretically, the aim is to establish common rules on taxation and permitted exemptions by setting minimum rates, essentially based on the amount of energy consumed, above which member states are free to determine their taxation rates. a co2 related element is introduced to support the goal of a low carbon economy. the objective is commendable but it overlooks two essential points. firstly, the harmonization of european taxation standards removes the possibility for member states to exempt certain sectors from energy taxation, particularly in the transport sector. consequently, the increase in transport costs will affect the economically disadvantaged in the first place. secondly, energy taxation will be a burden for households: like vat, it can only be socially unfair. the fight against climate change, and more generally environmental protection, must not forget social justice if it is to be effective and efficient.
in writing. at a time when refueling has never been so expensive, it would be foolish to impose an additional 23 cents on the price of a litre of gasoline at the pump. i therefore welcome the vote of our assembly, which rejected an unjustified tax increase and refused to tax not only the co2 emissions of diesel but also its energy efficiency. this was an ecological aberration, since it amounted to taxing diesel 9% more than petrol. in other words, we would have taxed the most efficient and therefore cleanest energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have no doubt that the council will follow our advice and reject this measure, which, as you will have understood, would be to the detriment of purchasing power, employment and, ironically, the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a strengthening of european tax systems to combat tax fraud and evasion. this requires increased use of information exchange tools and better cooperation between tax authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution calling for the concrete mobilisation of eu actors against tax fraud and evasion. we need to review our tax systems and, imperatively, make them more effective and efficient. unjustified exemptions must be eliminated, the tax base widened, the tax burden on labour reduced, tax collection improved, tax evasion fought, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, particularly with regard to third countries, intensified and reported for june 2012. all the measures we are asking for here in the european parliament, such as the common consolidated corporate tax base, can play a role in combating tax evasion. europe, in this time of crisis, must, more than ever, help itself to climb the ladder.
in writing. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is a major political issue today. in addition to reducing public expenditure, the fight against tax evasion must help to find a way out of the current economic crisis. as demonstrated by greece, which is in the midst of an economic slump, tax evasion represents a considerable loss of revenue for the state due to uncollected revenues. the european union must act urgently as national policies have failed to produce any tangible results. the commission's action must focus on combating tax havens, in particular by developing a comprehensive strategy focusing on transparency. it is high time that the european union put in place concrete measures to make tax evasion more difficult and to prevent the use of tax havens which refuse to cooperate with foreign tax authorities. in this resolution we also call for the rapid implementation of better cooperation and coordination in tax matters not only between the member states of the european union but also with third countries. it's about social justice in our state.
in writing. i voted in favour of the martin report because i believe that democratic monitoring and control are fundamental elements that the european union must implement. i share the rapporteur's view that parliament's committees of inquiry must be given sufficient resources. it is a question of their effectiveness and credibility. i also welcome the new powers granted to the committees of inquiry, such as the possibility of carrying out in situ investigations and the greater ease of using witness interviews.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this resolution which calls for the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion to be strengthened. the text calls for greater transparency and stricter controls to prevent the use of tax havens. it is in line with the conclusions of the g20 in cannes, which were adopted at the instigation of the president of the french republic, nicolas sarkozy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on strengthening the fight against tax fraud and evasion because it stresses key points such as strengthening the automatic exchange of information, increasing cooperation between member states and coordination between tax systems, and also strengthening transparency and developing stricter controls to avoid resorting to tax havens.
in writing. this report is a step in the right direction, but the findings are not enough. no reference is made to european tax havens (andorra, monaco, lichtenstein, etc.) or to the european parliament's desire to abolish them. these european tax havens are places where tax evasion is a crime, and we must tackle them. there is no reference to the problem of shell companies which artificially set up their headquarters in a state where they have only a letterbox, in order to avoid the taxation and tax rules of the state in which they operate. there is no reference to the insufficient resources allocated to the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, which are the only effective means of combating tax evasion. without adequate means nothing can be solved. no denunciation of the arrangements allowing for the taxation of companies with their headquarters in europe and which make their profits mainly abroad (cope niche), a system which allows companies, such as total, to be taxed almost entirely in france. tax dumping, tax evasion and tax fraud are not over in the european union, and they have a bright future ahead of them.
in writing. tax fraud and evasion represent a significant loss of revenue for eu member state governments because of the uncollected revenues they generate, increasing member states' deficit and debt levels, and reducing the funds available to boost public investment, growth and employment. it is crucial that action be taken to prevent such phenomena, and it is with this in mind that i have supported this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the call for concrete solutions to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. tax fraud and tax evasion represent a significant cost to the governments of the member states of the european union. this loss of revenue contributes to increasing the levels of public deficit and debt of member states and therefore reduces the public funds available to stimulate public investment, growth and employment. the resolution also stresses the importance of widespread exchange of information between the european union and third countries in order to put an end to banking secrecy.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, there are a few of us in this house who consider human rights to be fundamental values not only for the european union and its citizens but for all of humanity. the echr, like the universal declaration of human rights, was born out of the horrors of world war ii to protect citizens, including from the drift of states and their governments. western european countries have been particularly affected. they have been pioneers in this field for a long time. however, in recent years, particularly since the attacks of 11 september 2001, respect for human rights in these countries has declined. the judgments of the european court of human rights are there to show this. an increasing number of member states are convicted more and more regularly. the accession of the european union to the echr is therefore a symbol and we can see that for a number of member states article 6 of the treaty was just a piece of paper. there are debates about what is european law and what is national law and there is the question of the compatibility of the european charter of fundamental rights with the echr, with some member states seeking to reinstate the reservations they made to the charter in the debates on accession to the echr, whereas all member states are parties to the convention. so what's the problem? there are those who say that accession to the european union should not call into question the competences of the cjeu. having been involved in numerous meetings with the judges of this court, i also do not see where the problem lies. the ecj has been integrating fundamental rights into its case-law since 1970. the integration of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty, such as accession to the echr, will help it to better enforce fundamental rights. still others are concerned about the echr's jurisdiction beyond the territory of the european union. but that is its nature and i would venture to say that it was at the time of the incorporation of article 6 that these questions should have been asked. the problem is that some member states are seeking to challenge the very content of the echr and the role of the european court of justice, and they are prepared to do anything to do so. in these benches, there are a number of us who defend a universal and indivisible concept of human rights. we reject the double standard in human rights. we believe that in order to be credible in the fight they claim to be waging internationally for human rights, the european union and its member states must begin by sweeping up their own backs. yes, the european union's accession to the echr is a symbol and all the current hesitations are symptomatic of the deviations of some member states in this area. these member states are constantly breaking their human rights obligations. it is not the court that has changed, contrary to what i have heard, but the respect for fundamental rights by the member states. for almost two years now, we have been hearing about rapid accession. it's time to act.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to welcome the initiative of this discussion which allows us to address concerns that have already been expressed in the past about the reliability of biometric passports. we were told at the time that the introduction of biometric data would improve the security of travel documents, and that this would be in the interests of the safety of our citizens. a recent survey showed that 10% of french passports are fake because they are based on documents that are extremely easy to forge, namely a copy of a birth certificate. in this context, how can we imagine that the proliferation of biometric data and other secure chips is the best way to protect our fellow citizens? the gaps that exist should therefore invite us to greater caution. in the pursuit of security at all costs, the collection of personal data has led to a drastic reduction in the freedom of our citizens, particularly with the creation of databases that could be used for purposes other than those of general interest. another dimension i would like to bring up here is the sometimes obscure interests behind such developments: manufacturers of body scanners, electronic chips, data collection and security companies. all these industrial lobbies clearly have an interest in promoting these security-oriented technologies, which is worrying to say the least. in view of the logic of the population register which we are witnessing in almost every part of europe, we must be vigilant against the risk of infringement of the right to respect for private life. that is why i want to stress in this debate that the use of biometric data must be proportionate to the purpose pursued. a review of the rules for integrating biometric elements in passports and travel documents is therefore more than necessary. in conclusion, you have just given us a number of very useful details concerning the commission's evaluation of the implementation of these rules at national level. we are therefore looking forward to the various reports, the first of which should be available, i believe, quite soon.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to put to rest the unsubstantiated allegations that there are between 500 000 and 1 000 000 fake biometric passports in circulation in france. france takes the risk of fraud involving identity documents very seriously. it does not treat such crimes lightly. on the initiative of his government, identity theft is a crime punishable by one year in prison and a fine of 15,000 euros. the conditions for issuing identity cards have been simplified, which has given the prefectures additional means to combat fraud. thus, in each prefecture, a fraud referent is appointed. in addition, the security provisions for issuing identity cards have been strengthened. for example, the civil status data provided may be verified between administrative departments as far as possible by a digital means, in order to limit the risks of falsification. some birth certificates are also issued on secure paper. the same applies to proof of domicile. the ministry of the interior has embarked on a process of increasing the security of proof of address by inserting a barcode. the standard processing of an application for a licence includes the authorised consultation of the relevant files, the comparison of all documents produced in previous applications for a licence and the possible authentication of supporting documents. the security of the issue of the certificates is further guaranteed by the applicant's appearance twice, first at the time of filing the application and then at the time of withdrawal of the certificate and by the taking of two fingerprints. in addition, the reinforced checks for the renewal of lost and stolen titles for comparison with the data kept by the prefectures. france also reports to international cooperation bodies, in particular interpol, passports issued or lost and stolen in order to prevent them from being used for fraudulent purposes. my dear colleagues, france, like the rest of the european union, is committed... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the fact that our parliament has the detailed maps needed to delimit the lessfavoured areas in the context of the cap reform is a crucial issue for at least two reasons. the first is a matter of respect. our parliament, the only institution of the union with democratic legitimacy, must have all the necessary tools for its legislative control function. the second reason is a matter of common sense in relation to europe's agricultural ambitions. if we want solidarity between the territories in the union, if we want quality agriculture, largely self-sufficient in renewable resources, relocated, participating in the public health of consumers, contributing to the fight against global warming and meeting the food needs of our populations, then all european aid must be re-designed in accordance with these objectives. to do this, detailed maps of agricultural areas are one of the essential tools for this work. let us repeat once again that a common agricultural policy must not be a matter of speculative markets but a matter of civilization which embraces all areas of the lives of the citizens of the member states.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, first of all, a statement: our citizens are increasingly keen to find and consume locally produced and seasonal food, for health and quality reasons in particular. we must find ways of enabling farmers to respond effectively and rapidly to this growing demand. we must support the establishment of local infrastructure for producers, such as the maintenance of local slaughterhouses, which, while ensuring strict sanitary controls, make it possible to develop local short circuits and to strengthen direct sales. support for local agriculture and direct sales should help producers to market their products and to make them known to consumers. the strengthening of these direct relationships will enable farmers to retain a larger share of the value added created on their farms. direct sales within the holding should be encouraged and facilitated and collective actions by farmers who wish to open collective sales outlets offering a wider range of products to local consumers should be supported. the european commission must facilitate the emergence, sustainability and development of direct sales systems by delivery to consumers, such as the amap in france, which enable nearly 3 000 farmers to supply 60 000 families. finally, member states should be able to add other criteria, in particular concerning the size of the holding, the volume of production or the traditional character of the product, to define local agriculture.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the concerns raised by the asylum situation in greece are not new and important measures, both at national and european level, have already been taken to try to respond to them. however, this issue is now more acute given the recent adoption in greece of an amendment to the 2010 presidential decree, which aims to round up and arrest irregular migrants and asylum seekers, including those suspected of carrying infectious diseases. these measures are and would obviously be extremely worrying in a number of ways. first, because they specifically target the most vulnerable on the basis of discriminatory criteria, because they only exacerbate prejudice against migrants and asylum seekers in greece and, finally, because they are contrary to greece's obligations regarding the detention of irregular migrants and persons eligible for international protection. so i would like to hear from you about this if it is the reality. i am returning to the situation which has been going on for some time now to deal with other issues, because we need to contribute to the continuation of a calm and objective debate and to have better visibility of the actions undertaken. you have raised the problem of funding. my first question will therefore be about the actions which have been privileged so far and those which will be in the future. i would also like to know how, for example, the identification of persons in need of international protection, who need access to the procedure, who need to have their applications and the conditions for their reception examined, because greece is being pushed to fulfil - and this has been mentioned, perhaps in another way, just now - the role of policeman of europe. while efforts must continue to help this member state cope with the migratory pressures that are difficult to manage, the preferred approach must be that of international and european law, in a spirit of mutual trust between states.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken of a challenge. it is true that we are facing a huge challenge for greece, but we have above all to face a challenge concerning the european union, its image in the world and the representation of its citizens. it would have been easy to think that the end of the 20th century, which ended with the fall of the berlin wall, would have meant that no more walls would be built in europe. but it is not. there is a huge project, developed by greece to try to respond to its immense difficulties, which translate into the arrival - as our greek colleague said - of more than 300 people a day at its borders, through a transit country which is turkey, and these are citizens who do not come from turkey but from many other countries in the world. we could have thought that we would never see this again, and this phenomenon is accompanied by a completely unworthy humanitarian situation and a violation of the human rights that we are constantly developing, protecting, defending and safeguarding as the most precious asset that the european union has created. the answers are difficult, the messages are complex. without going into the technical aspects, it is obvious that, of course, solidarity - as cecilia malmström has just explained - through the idea of shared responsibility, through the technical mechanisms, the financing to be used, the allocation of funds of a european nature - must make it possible to provide effective aid and to respond in a dignified and human rights-compliant manner to the situation of these people. the second message - which has been developed a great deal in recent weeks in the european area - is to focus attention on the construction of texts and a system of the rule of law which convey this solidarity of the member states in relation to the pressure that greece is experiencing at its borders. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, the third answer, madam president, or the third message that is underlined in our remarks, is to have the opportunity and the political will to build a balance between the north and the south and to use development aid and partnerships with the countries of the south in such a way that migrants do not want to come to an eldorado that is not one. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am of course very sensitive to the fact that greece cannot respond alone. that's what i've been trying to explain. i had the opportunity to go to the island of samos in greece, where i saw the very difficult situation, and i also went to the island of lampedusa, where i saw how complicated the problems were. it is only together, in solidarity, by providing the greatest possible support to greece, which is a member of the european union, that we can provide answers. however, these responses, if they are to be substantive, must be taken across all the policies of the european union. i am aware of the difficulties facing greece. it's like i'm greek.
for the greens/efa group madam president, this is not the first time that this topic has been raised. i believe that all the bodies - the court of justice, the european court of human rights, the fundamental rights agency, civil society organisations - have at some point sounded the alarm. the european commission has heard the alarm. greece has since launched a national plan on asylum and immigration. but it is clear today that, firstly, the situation in detention centres - and i have visited some in greece - remains an insult to human dignity, that since the beginning of the year, several dozen people have died at the greek-turkish border trying to cross the evros river, and that ngos today, in the context of the economic and social crisis in greece, are seeing a meteoric rise in racist attacks. they have identified 63 cases in athens and patras, including 18 from police officers, for the last half of 2011. it is clear that in the pre-electoral context in greece today, one hears some foolish proposals and a bidding war over policies that can be described as anti-immigrant and extremely xenophobic, such as the proposal to build detention centres, but especially the one to park migrants and asylum seekers who are suspected of being sick. politicians are also heard calling the migrant issue a bombshell for society and national security. the european union must of course respond to this with its values, instruments and the principle of cooperation and solidarity. and in this respect, it is still necessary to tell the member states that threatening greece with withdrawal from the schengen area is an absolutely outrageous proposal, while at the same time the member states openly regret that the court prevents them from returning asylum seekers to greece under the dublin regulation. frankly, this cowardice and hypocrisy on the part of the member states of the european union is intolerable and the european commission has a great responsibility in this respect to guarantee our fundamental principles. as far as turkey is concerned, i think we should try to look at the situation as it is. turkey is asking for equal treatment in the community readmission agreement. but on this point we are in absolute double standards since there is no prospect of a visa liberalisation dialogue with turkey ... (the president asked the speaker to conclude) and that turkey, at this very moment, is welcoming thousands of refugees every day at its syrian border. i therefore believe that we must stop passing the ball from one country to another and take up this fundamental responsibility in solidarity.
mr president, iter is first and foremost a huge public research effort in the framework of transdisciplinary international cooperation and mutualisation, which is new and promising. with thermonuclear fusion, this is the promise to mankind of abundant, infinitely renewable, nonpolluting, affordable, and accessible electrical energy - a promise that other forms of energy production cannot fulfill. the success of iter is all the more important for the future of mankind as the demand for electricity will continue to grow. but to succeed in iter, we must turn our backs on the predatory and destructive logic of competition and the financialisation of the energy sector. we must put an end to privatisation. the major integrated publicly owned enterprises of the 21st century must be built to meet the scientific, technological and economic challenges posed by iter and its industrialisation. we have to plan ecologically. in the energy sector, research, design, production, transport networks and distribution cannot be separated unless this leads to the worst waste, social inequalities in access to energy and the risk of major accidents.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that this amending budget for the financing of iter was adopted by a large majority in the committee on budgets on 29 march. by financing this additional cost, we are avoiding the disruption of a strategic basic research project in which the european union plays a leading role and we are honouring our international commitments. it should be noted that none of the seven partners of the euratom community has questioned its overall contribution to the project. japan, despite the fukushima disaster, has decided to strictly respect its budgetary commitments in iter. without this agreement, hundreds of researchers would have had to suspend their work and the iter project would have suffered damaging delays. today, a thousand people work for iter in cadarache. from 2015 and until 2017-2018, the construction phase of the buildings and the assembly of the machine could involve up to 4 or 5 000 people on this site. in conclusion, mr president, iter is a pride of europe and a symbol of our excellence.
in writing. at the end of 2011, the 2012 budget procedure was marked by strong disagreements between the parliament and the council on the financing of iter, the thermonuclear fusion research project based in cadarache, in the bouches-du-rhône. eur 750 million of additional costs compared to the initial estimates had to be found for 2012, and only eur 100 million had been agreed at the end of 2011. the only thing left to do was to find a compromise for the remaining 650 million. after lengthy negotiations with the council, parliament succeeded in getting this money released by raising the financial ceiling of the budget line concerned, whereas the council had originally envisaged only funding by redeploying funds from the 7th framework programme for research and development. the additional financial needs for the iter project in 2012 will therefore be available without compromising other research programmes. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet adopted the euro by a factor of two. it is our duty to ensure that the iter project is not financed at the expense of other priority policies of the eu 2020 strategy.
mr president, commissioner, my first words are to congratulate mrs ticău on the immense work she has done in the committee on industry, research and energy on this e-government issue. thank you to the commission for its work. i would like to make three points. firstly, we must be sure that we have the coverage to use all these new technologies throughout the european continent, this is an element of our continent's competitiveness. in the canton of meymac, in corrèze, where i am elected, as well as in limousin and auvergne, not all our territories are covered, and that is a real problem. we need to achieve 100% coverage within the european union and the member states. the second observation is that administration must not become more complex under the pretext of simplifying life. we are tired of too much complexity and bureaucracy. finally, a comment on the location of civil servants. these new technologies should enable civil servants to stay where they are and work remotely with their central administration, thanks precisely to online administration.
member of the commission. − mr president, the report on e-government by mrs ţicău is very important and timely and rightly places e-government in the context of a digital agenda and the 2020 strategy. we agree that e-government is a window of opportunity to modernise and simplify the public sector and make it more cost-efficient as well as user-friendly. mrs ţicău, you rightly underline in your report the strength of the ict sector in europe, which contributes, as mentioned, 5% of gdp of the european union market value of eur 660 billion. it also contributes 50% of overall productivity growth, which is also important. we can therefore imagine the potential of this digital market if it could be completely free of barriers. at the moment, both citizens and businesses face many barriers when accessing public services online in another country. this is mainly the responsibility of the member states. however, in order to enhance the action plan by 2015, the commission will table a pan-european framework for electronic identification, authentication and signatures at the level of european cooperation by june 2012. this will, firstly, address the issue of interoperability and usability and, secondly, remove the barriers. it will also to address the new requirements: new trusted services and the mutual recognition of and acceptance of electronic identification and signatures. we take note of – and, what is more, we support – your efforts to make e-invoicing predominant in europe by 2020. however, we should take account of the requirements of small and medium-sized enterprises within the consistent regulatory framework. we also take note of your ambitious call to the member states to make e-invoicing mandatory in public procurement by 2016. last but not least, funding is needed for the future in the areas of electronic identification, e-procurement, e-justice and e-health, and it should be provided primarily by the connecting europe facility. in order to achieve all this, we need cooperation. the goal is a modern, user-friendly digital single market in europe.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues and welcome the very interesting contributions they have made to this report, which i hope will be the beginning of a new awareness in our institutions. in an ideal parliament, the committee on women's rights and gender equality would not exist and gender issues and discrimination against women would be integrated spontaneously into all the subjects we are dealing with here because it is a cross-cutting issue. but we must continue to persuade them relentlessly, because we, as members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, have a responsibility to get women out of the dead end of european politics. this is particularly true of environmental issues. i would go so far as to say that we will demonstrate in our report that women are not the green vegetables of ecology. the numbers are staggering. in cyclones, floods, earthquakes, women are up to 14 times more likely to die. this is the case with the 2004 asian tsunami, for example, but also the 2003 european heat wave. 70% of the victims were women. why would you do that? women do not have the same economic, social or political means to adapt or even to flee. in contrast, in honduras, thanks to a disaster warning and management system that included women from the beginning, the town of la masica was the only one to record no deaths during and after hurricane mitch. climate change remains the top priority, but in the context of economic crisis, ecology is not the only one to regress. women's rights are also being violated and it is by linking the two that we will be able to propose a coherent political vision and effective solutions. in history, in every crisis, in every revolution, we've been told that women's rights would come next. that is an outdated and ineffective way of thinking. the challenges of climate change and those of justice and equality for women are intrinsically linked. women are not just victims to be protected. women also have knowledge and proposals to make. not because they're naturally different, but because we live in societies where roles are largely gendered. being a woman or a man has an impact on our daily lives, from resource management to access to education to career choices. these are differences in experience which are reflected in the solutions and ideas proposed. in the report we identified four types of measures. first, the measures of representation. we are asking for a minimum of 40% women in political, financial and technical bodies. the voices of women and their organisations must be heard and supported. secondly, measures of protection and training which enable a virtuous cycle to be established for women, from victims to agents of change. thirdly, educational measures to unlock the future green economy and encourage women to take up technical and scientific careers but also to convey the lifestyle changes that are needed. finally, for research, we need gender-disaggregated data collections to improve our understanding of the subject and our policy proposals. to sum up the spirit of this report, we argue that climate change policies can be enriched by integrating gender issues and that tackling discrimination leads to more effective environmental solutions. it's a win-win. as the rio+20 summit approaches, it is clear that there are no simple solutions to a challenge as complex and urgent as climate change. it is by broadening our thinking that we will find the resources to move forward. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change must of course be dealt with in its entirety, not only at the level of the european union but also at the global level. nevertheless, women, especially those in developing countries, are the main victims. the continuing discrimination against women in terms of income, access to resources and participation in political decision-making are factors that explain the extreme vulnerability of women in developing countries during natural disasters. our policy to combat global warming cannot ignore gender issues, nor can our development aid policy do without taking better account of the role of women in developing countries. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must do everything possible to promote the role of women in developing countries, in major international bodies and, in particular, at the united nations climate conferences. sometimes i think i'm hallucinating, especially after what i just heard. it is high time, mr president, that gender equality is at the heart of the development and implementation of policies on development, human rights and the fight against global warming.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to say that when it comes to women and climate, we are talking about a real and serious programme. that is why i very much appreciate the attention focused on it by the rapporteur and by all of you who contributed. i am sure that my colleague connie hedegaard also appreciates that very much. a lot of convincing points have been aired in this debate. the things which have really stayed in my mind are key words such as awareness, data, knowledge, education, mainstreaming and science. on community support for women and women’s education, i could add that by 2015 all development-financing proposals will include gender-specific indicators, and climate-related projects under horizon 2020 – our new framework programme – will include gender-specific analysis. some of you might know that in my previous term of office i was responsible for science and research, and the question of women in science was one of the very serious questions that we tried to address. unfortunately there is no quick fix. nowadays, certain developments are very encouraging: there are some facts on the number of female doctorate students, which is increasing more rapidly than the corresponding figure for men, and on the number of women researchers, which is growing at a rate nearly twice that of their male counterparts. so the situation is getting better, although it should continue in future to be a focus of attention. the problem is largely connected to the move from studying into the world of work. the reality is that women scientists earn less than their male counterparts; more of them are employed on short-term contracts; they climb the ladder of success more slowly, and so on. these are all real issues which we should address at the very core of the problem, and a holistic approach – involving social policy – should be used to the utmost extent. i myself have experienced the power of women in international negotiations, and i can say from my own experience that this is a fact. finally, i would like to say something on what we discussed yesterday. yesterday i was in denmark, in horsens, where we had an informal council devoted to two themes. one of them was the 7th environmental action programme, which we will discuss later on and which concerns the next episode of our environmental policy for the mid to long term. we also discussed the rio+20 earth summit, which involves similar themes but obviously in a more international environment. i can report that gender balance and the role of women were issues underlined in our discussions. it is important that we see these issues not only in the context of climate change but also in the context of green growth or, more broadly speaking, in the context of sustainable development. as some of you rightly pointed out, inclusion and equity are absolute requirements for sustainable development. just as development cannot be solely about economic growth, sustainability cannot be solely about protecting the environment. development must be people-centred, promoting rights, opportunities, choices and dignity, and green growth must also be inclusive growth, generating social progress and contributing to eradicating poverty and achieving greater equality, as well as sustaining our natural environment. by the way, the title of the conference in rio which we will be attending in june is exactly that: ‘green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication’. all the issues which are highlighted in this report are also very relevant to those themes.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, after meeting commissioner hedegaard at the hearing organised by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i knew that we could count on her and on the commission. i also know that we can count on the danish presidency to have heard a number of things. i would like to thank all the colleagues, men and women, who have spoken today, because it has only reflected the work we have done collectively and which is very rewarding work for all of us. i think that this debate was necessary, and that we must of course continue to promote this awareness. but everyone here has contributed to this report and i am very pleased with that. i know that we can also rely on the institute for gender equality, which we set up in vilnius in 2011. i'd like to say something, though. i would like to pay tribute to all the women and women's associations around the world who have long understood the need to mobilize on the issue of conservation of resources and on climate issues. women in some countries have long understood this. i would mention india, where women in the chipko movement have tied themselves to trees to save them, and rwanda, where women have preserved 600 species of beans. i would also like to pay tribute to wangari maathai, who no one here has forgotten, who left us recently and who, with her green belt movement, saved millions of trees. women in developing countries have long been aware of the need to mobilize and we know that we can rely on them. the last point which has been raised several times is the question of quotas. my group and i are indeed supporters of this tool. it is a tool in itself, and it has enabled us to be the only political group in this parliament with a parity of views. i think that's the only way, unfortunately, to make things work. if we do not use this tool of quotas, we will not be able to advance gender equality. it's just a tool. to conclude, if i may, with a quote from einstein, who said, "a problem cannot be solved without changing the level of consciousness that created it".
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the quality of his work. the report proposes a new strategy for 2020 to combat the loss of biodiversity, which, it was stressed, is accelerating dangerously. it tries to remind us how closely our systems and our future are linked to the preservation of our natural and genetic capital, for our food, our health and the fight against climate change, and it highlights how our future economic development is linked to our capacity to preserve biodiversity. it is worth remembering that we are losing 3% of world gdp every year due to the loss of biodiversity, that the costs of inaction are far higher than the necessary investment costs and are not only financial, that there is an urgent need to take action before the bill becomes too high and the loan is no longer repayable. our report calls for two immediate measures: the development of innovative financing and the elimination of all public financing which is harmful to the environment. but this report also stresses the need to integrate our development strategies into a medium- and long-term vision and the need to integrate the issues of preserving biodiversity into the heart of our sectoral policies and, above all, into the heart of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the forestry policy. if this dimension of integration and ambitious commitments were to disappear from the text when we vote today, we would be deprived of one of the main levers of action and my group would not be able to vote on this report. i would also ask my conservative colleagues not to reject the unblocking of the framework directive on soil protection. 48% of european land is now severely degraded. the commission estimates the cost of this degradation at nearly eur 40 billion per year. only ambitious action at european level can help us to break the vicious circle of the artificial and sterilized nature of our land. finally, because we must learn from past mistakes and look beyond europe to the future, we have also introduced a reference to the next earth summit in rio in june. in the meantime, this report is a key step in our determination and the role of the european union to succeed where we failed yesterday.
madam president, in rio in 1992, the world's heads of state were making a real act of civilization by acknowledging for the first time the responsibility of the human species for the loss of biodiversity and global warming. twenty years later, what is the result? although there is a growing awareness of climate change, the challenges of biodiversity conservation are still underestimated, despite nagoya. is it even being measured that we are facing the sixth wave of species extinction since the beginning of the world, and that is by predation in particular? we are facing, i dare say, a true mass crime and this crime forces us to rethink our contribution to the world of the living. it would therefore be a great step for civilization to bring forth a new legal qualification: the crimes of mankind against life in all its forms, animal and vegetable. this is the necessary condition for the establishment of an international criminal tribunal for the environment, which has become indispensable.
in writing. as it stands, i cannot vote in favour of the report on the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. it is not possible for our institution to support the idea that hunting would have a negative impact on biodiversity. the 7 million hunters in the european union, on the other hand, are engaged in action to protect biodiversity on a daily basis. by working in the field, they put their expertise, time and resources to work to maintain an environment conducive to the development of wildlife. through their passion, they acquire a knowledge of nature that is valuable to the citizens of the european union, with whom they share the same value of preserving their natural capital. similarly, the idea in paragraph 35 that the european union should establish an 'environmental inspection force' is not acceptable. this proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and should not be funded by the european union in the current economic context. for other reasons, such as the view of farmers as 'guardians' of the landscape, i am opposed to the adoption of this report, whose approach is biased.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, thank you for the work we have done together. the european union needs a manifesto, a common political vision on the major environmental challenges for 2020 and beyond. this is the very reason for launching a seventh environmental action programme by bringing together existing financial frameworks and by mobilising new sources of finance. this programme must ensure coherence and coordination between the european union's environmental strategies and sectoral policies, whether agriculture, fisheries, research and innovation, health, transport, regional development, spatial planning or urban policies, of course. despite the economic crisis in the european union, we must not give in to short-term thinking and abandon any ambition in the environmental and climate field. failure to act would be fatal. the stakes are too high, particularly in the efficient use of our resources and the development of natural capital. we must therefore invest decisively in sustainable economy and eco-innovation, sources of growth, competitiveness and jobs. it is our responsibility to promote eco-design, recycling and environmental product labelling to avoid waste and poor consumer choices. we cannot ignore the environmental education that is necessary for european citizens. the environmental action programme is an instrument for policy planning but it is also a communication tool. it should provide the necessary readability and predictability for national and local administrations, citizens, entrepreneurs and investors on the environmental choices of the european union. european regulation must not become a punishment or a prison.
mr president, i know the rules of this house. i would simply like to alert all members to the vote that has just taken place. this item was added to the agenda on monday and it is obvious that most of the colleagues in the various groups were not able to see what they were voting on. that is why i abstained on most of the points in this resolution. i think that in terms of the method of work we have a real difficulty here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this tőkés report because i know how important it is to modernise education systems in europe. higher education plays a fundamental role in the achievement of individuals, their social integration and their contribution to the economic and cultural influence of the european union. total investment in higher education is still too low in europe. the current budgetary constraints are well known, but this is a key issue. we must use all the tools at our disposal to bring the necessary credits to european universities. the commission has proposed an ambitious budget for education for the next period. it will be able to count on the full commitment of the european parliament. the structural funds can and must also be mobilised for higher education. between 2007 and 2013, more than €70 billion of these funds will be allocated to education and training. finally, some low-cost initiatives can have considerable multiplier effects. in my region, a crossborder academic research centre has been set up to provide integrated training between france and spain. the students thus see two labour markets and the full potential of two cultures open up to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a president of my country said: 'the house is on fire and we are looking elsewhere'. the economic crisis has tended to obscure the ecological and environmental crisis we are experiencing, the long-term consequences of which are extremely serious. with this seventh eu environment action programme, parliament is urging the commission to focus on implementing and strengthening existing measures, to take the environment into account in all sectoral policies, so that the eu can continue to be a driving force in the fight against climate change at international level. tools exist for converting our economy to a more sustainable growth model. the added value of the €370 billion proposed in the budget for the next cohesion policy will only be real if these funds finance environmentally friendly future projects. the commission proposes that the most developed regions spend 20% of their erdf allocation on the transition to a low-carbon economy and the least developed regions only 5%. i wonder about that gap. is 5% really enough? i think, on the contrary, that all regions must become aware of the usefulness of the european environmental strategy and make efforts to implement and respect its objectives.
in writing. i support the decision to allocate additional funds to the iter project. the compromise that has been found is a good compromise, which does not hinder the other areas of growth in the eu. iter is a project that must be continued, because it is a tool for the future, bringing innovation and jobs. it will help to restore strong and sustainable growth in europe tomorrow. this extension is an investment. in these times of cutbacks in public expenditure, these appropriations have been the subject of a substantive debate in order to limit the resources used as much as possible and to guarantee their best return.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this amending budget which will allow the iter project to continue to develop under good conditions. the europe of tomorrow must be made up of great projects. it is essential that the european union takes on the motherhood of these children, and this requires budgetary adjustments to enable them to be born.
in writing. as an environmentalist, i can only vote against an additional budget of 650 million for iter (international experimental thermonuclear reactor) for the year 2012 alone. this highly centralised and productivist project is a real financial hole in the face of the serious budgetary situation in europe. this increase robs other energy sectors of money, which are much more promising, such as renewable energy. in the face of the environmental and economic challenges we face, it is urgent that funding for iter be stopped.
in writing. draft amending budget no 1/2012 was put to the vote by the european parliament on 18 april at its april plenary session. i supported the report by my colleague mr balzani in the plenary. the report, which relates to the financing of the iter programme (http://www.iter.org/en/accueil), will help to finance the additional cost of the project, which amounts to eur 1 300 million for the period 2012-2013. the commission adopted this draft amending budget in january 2012. the council adopted its position in march and made no changes to the commission proposal. the balzani report was voted without amendment in the committee on budgets on 29 march. i recommend that we follow the position of the rapporteur and the ppe by voting for this amending budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the tőkés own-initiative report on the modernisation of higher education systems. while 35% of all jobs will require highly skilled workers by 2020, only 26% of the workforce is currently highly skilled. faced with this challenge, member states need to expand access to higher education, adapt their programmes to market needs and strengthen university-business partnerships. however, i would like to point out that the value of university training must go hand in hand with that of vocational training.
in writing. enabling young europeans to train anywhere in europe and thus pursue an individual path is essential for future generations. a successful education system in europe today is the first guarantee that our continent will remain a land of creativity and progress tomorrow.
in writing. to build the growth of tomorrow, we need to rethink higher education to enable it to face the global crisis and competition. i voted in favour of this text, which contributes to the reflection on this renewal. it proposes concrete actions to enable european higher education to be a world leader: more graduates, quality education, better governance, better links with research and employment. it emphasises in particular the key role of lifelong learning, which is adapted to the different situations of those who benefit from it.
in writing. i supported the tőkés report in plenary. this report, on the modernisation of higher education systems in europe, recalls the crucial importance of maintaining adequate funding for higher education institutions despite the economic crisis. the report also stresses the need to support the erasmus programme and to be vigilant about the quality of higher education at european level.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague laszlo tőkés on the modernisation of higher education systems in europe. in this text, the european parliament has shown its determination to maintain adequate funding for higher education institutions despite budgetary constraints. europe must therefore use all available budgetary instruments to ensure that european universities have sufficient financial resources. but above all we must work, in the most concerted way in europe, to open our universities and higher education systems more to the world of work, in order to equip european institutions with quality and excellent training, able to equip them to face the challenges of international university competition and to enable students to find their place in the world of work. i also welcome the european parliament's willingness to continue and extend the success of the erasmus programme, as evidenced by the proposal to introduce a mobility programme at master's level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of our higher education. i agree with the main lines of the text, which stresses the need to encourage student mobility and to provide access to education for people from all social backgrounds, and the importance of strengthening the interactions between the three branches of the knowledge triangle - education, research and innovation - as a key element for growth and job creation. with a european target of around 35% of all jobs in europe being highly skilled by 2020, with budgetary constraints ahead, unemployment rates at present or demographic changes underway, european higher education will have to make a huge change. this change will obviously affect the question of practices, but also that of organization, the development of alternation, and means. on this last point, however, i think caution is warranted when the report deals with the question of the budget allocated to lifelong learning: i would like to point out that these budgets must remain compatible with the constraints currently imposed on the public finances of the member states.
in writing. the report on the so-called modernisation of higher education systems was adopted this morning, without surprise and, above all, without debate. only a brief presentation by the rapporteur was devoted to it. the report contains some positive proposals, such as the need for public investment in higher education. the union's response, however, is not up to the needs of those who wish to study, access continuing training or be mobile and who face increasingly insurmountable difficulties. adaptation of programmes to the needs of the labour market alone, closer cooperation with the 'business world', search for 'innovative alternative funding' (often private). the report goes so far as to welcome the commission's initiative to establish a pan-european system of 'loans for master students' as part of the draft of the new 'erasmus for all' programme. replacing scholarships with loans, and leaving the financial institutions free to define the terms of these loans, can only compromise not only the right to mobility but above all equal access to education for all.
in writing. i supported the ţicău report on the implementation of the first european action plan for e-government 2011-2015. its implementation has enabled administrations in all eu member states to exchange good practice. the aim is to eventually be able to deploy efficient transnational e-government services.
in writing. the european parliament expressed its deep concern at the political situation in mali, which was shaken by the tuareg rebellion and the military coup d'état of 21 march. the intervention of ecowas and the appointment of president compaore as mediator have helped to restore constitutional order in the country, and i welcome this. on 6 april, a framework agreement was signed to end the crisis, which allowed ecowas to lift its sanctions as from 10 april. european and french investment in particular is strong in this country with which we have always had close relations. the european union is providing 560 million euro to mali to support its development efforts, 50 million euro under the sahel development and security strategy and 9 million euro to finance assistance to refugees and displaced people in northern mali. however, the situation is not fully recovered and we must remain vigilant to the risk of a deterioration in the humanitarian and food situation which could lead to a serious crisis in a region already weakened by the risk of terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. i supported the european parliament's joint resolution on the situation in mali and i welcome its adoption by a large majority. we condemn the military coup in mali and the suspension of the republic's institutions, and we express our deep concern at the growing terrorist threat in northern mali and the violence and looting directed against humanitarian personnel. we also reaffirm the need to safeguard and respect the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of mali and call for the immediate release of all those who have been kidnapped.
in writing. in the night of 21-22 march 2012, the national committee for reconstruction and democracy overthrew malian president amadou toumani toure. this coup d'état, which has been strongly condemned by the international community, threatens the stability of mali and the entire sahel region. after considerable mediation efforts, a framework agreement was signed between the military junta and ecowas (economic community of west african states). the subregional organisation now plays a major role in the negotiations. this is a testament to the effectiveness of the african peace facility, a european fund that funds the training of sub-regional crisis management brigades. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in mali because it is a nuanced and fair text. while the risks to peace and security in the sahel are clearly exposed, the effective response by regional actors is also highlighted. the eu-african union partnership aims to equip africa with the means to prevent political crises but also, and above all, to deal with them autonomously.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in burma was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament and i welcome that. in this resolution, my colleagues and i acknowledge that, despite some irregularities reported during the pre-election period, the elections on 1 april were conducted in a transparent and credible manner. we also reaffirm our respect for the decades of struggle of the great opposition figure, aung san suu kyi, winner of the sakharov prize, and congratulate her on her election victory. finally, we welcome mrs ashton's decision to establish a diplomatic presence in the country and to inaugurate the european union office during her next official visit.
in recent months, burma has made more progress towards democracy and peace than in the past decades. the parliamentary by-elections held on 1 april 2012, widely regarded as free and fair by the international community, are a sign that burma is on the path to democratic change. this development opens up important prospects for the establishment of much better relations between the european union and burma. however, the next general elections, due to take place in 2015, will be the real test of whether the burmese authorities really want to democratize the country. in the meantime, caution is in order. the report of the un special rapporteur on human rights in burma highlights the serious human rights concerns - hundreds of political prisoners are still being held there today. the text of this resolution on the situation in burma seems to me to be balanced. it acknowledges the recent efforts made by the country, but also reflects my concerns, particularly with regard to the situation of the burmese political prisoners. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. burma is on the path to democratic change. this is the main message contained in the resolution on the situation in burma voted by meps in plenary. the elections on 1 april marked the victory of the party of the historic oppositionist aung san su kyi. the elections, which are considered free and fair by the international community, consolidate the reforms undertaken by the burmese government for more than a year (release of political prisoners, demobilization of former combatants, actions in favour of freedom of expression). in this text we have sought to highlight the unique opportunity that exists to build a special relationship with burma. although encouraging, recent developments are not enough to rule out all risks. the european parliament therefore encouraged the council to suspend, rather than lift, the restrictive measures against burma (with the exception of the arms embargo).
in writing. as an environmentalist, i voted against this resolution which prioritizes the economic and geostrategic interests of a european company over the social and environmental rights of the argentine people. repsol has always put an extractive model at the forefront, ignoring all other considerations. the argentine state therefore has every right to decide sovereignly on the management of its resources and its energy policy, even if this is not a guarantee of exemplary behaviour in this area. the european union and spain should instead focus on investing their economic, political and diplomatic resources massively in promoting a new energy and development model based on renewable energy and reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the legal security of european investments outside the european union. the argentine government announced on monday, april 16, its intention to nationalize the ypf subsidiary of the spanish repsol group. the takeover of ypf must be done through the passage of a bill in the argentine congress. the spanish company demands 8 billion euros for the redemption of its shares, an amount that the argentine government does not seem to be ready to accept. the resolution aims to clarify the situation for disputes over bilateral contracts concluded before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it provides that, until the adoption of the regulation ensuring the stability of these bilateral agreements concluded before the treaty of lisbon, member states and their operators must manage their investment disputes and any retaliatory measures themselves.
in writing. since the beginning of the plenary session, we have seen a surreal reaction from the european institutions to the argentine government's decision to nationalise the shares of the spanish company repsol in the hydrocarbon company ypf. with this decision, the argentine government has only reversed the privatization of the main argentine oil company by the ultra-liberal government of carlos menem in the 1990s. the european parliament resolution attacks the decision of a sovereign state with the sole motivation of protecting european investments. it is perfectly legitimate for a sovereign state to nationalize companies which do not respect their commitments to economic development and respect for human rights and which favour the interests of their shareholders over the interests of national workers. argentina has made a political choice for the benefit of the argentineans and the public interest of the country. so it is not "political interference in the free market". asking for sanctions is nonsense. the european union would be more credible in calling for such sanctions in the event of human rights violations, as in colombia.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report, which welcomes the reforms implemented within the european commission to streamline the running costs of delegations while ensuring a better allocation of funds allocated to third countries. the european union can no longer afford to help third countries with european taxpayers' money without properly checking that it is being used properly. as the report points out, the commission must improve its own control instruments governing its interventions and behave more responsibly in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kaczmarek report. this own-initiative report deals with the impact of the decentralisation of external aid management from the commission's central services to the european union delegations. it first recalled the objectives of decentralising external aid: speeding up the deployment of aid, increasing the reliability of financial management procedures and improving the quality of aid in the partner countries. it noted that there had been marked improvements in the way assistance was provided (more efficiency and speed), and encouraged the commission to continue its efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes a positive view of the commission's decentralisation of the management of the european union's external aid from its central services to its delegations. this report highlights the main benefits of decentralisation, namely increased aid effectiveness and speed of response. it called on the commission to continue its efforts. the committee also called for better evaluation of the quality and results of the eu's financial interventions, which would, in its view, make the eu more accountable and ensure greater visibility of its actions.
in writing. i supported this report because it highlights the positive effects of decentralisation on the management of external aid, already highlighted in the court of auditors' 2011 report, in particular the acceleration of the deployment of aid or the improvement of the quality of aid in the recipient countries as well as the effectiveness of that aid. it is also an idea that i have long supported: in my view, eu delegations in third countries are best placed to judge when, how and on which projects eu aid can bring real added value. for example, i introduced this concept in the resolution on the reform of the european neighbourhood policy adopted in april 2011. however, the commission needs to make further efforts to improve the way it assesses the quality and results of its interventions and, above all, to further strengthen its links with each of its delegations. better coordination will make aid more effective and, more generally, better information exchange between the commission's headquarters and its delegations will make european policy in this field even more relevant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes into account the role and place of women in the fight against climate change. in many countries they are a high-risk population and will suffer the consequences. i particularly welcome the inclusion in this report of an important reminder: the transition to a green economy will only happen with more women scientists and engineers. the report also recalls our ambition to see quotas for women in senior positions, particularly in the context of climate diplomacy. while this report focuses solely on the situation of women, it should not make us forget the situation of other populations particularly exposed to climate change.
in writing. according to a study by the london school of economics and the max planck institute, women are the main victims of climate change and are more likely than men to die in natural disasters. furthermore, 75% to 80% of the world's refugees are women and children, and climate change is increasing these movements of people and very often their precariousness. that is why i voted in favour of the kiil-nielsen report on women and climate change, because the european parliament must demonstrate that the gender dimension must be taken into account and integrated into european policies to combat climate change. the approach and measures proposed in this report are relevant whether it is the introduction of a minimum quota of 40% of women in the european delegations in charge of climate negotiations, the collection of data by gender, awareness raising during the evaluation or launch phases of projects on climate change, investments for increasing financial independence and the means of empowering women within their community...
in writing. i supported my colleague nicole kiil-nielsen's report on women and climate change. this own-initiative report calls for gender to be taken into account in the fight against climate change.
in writing. the consequences of climate change affect women more than men because they are more vulnerable. climate change is fuelling the development of these discriminations. however, the emerging green economy is a source of hope. there is still time to fully integrate women into this green economy. i support this report because it raises the need to strengthen women's training capacity. i believe that access to education and the raising of the level of education of women is a necessary prerequisite for reducing their vulnerability. it was therefore appropriate for parliament to alert the commission, the council of the european union and the member states and to call on them to take action in this regard. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it encourages member states and institutions to continue to support projects in developing countries. the resolution also recommends that the commission establish indicators to assess the impact of the projects we support and to raise awareness of the impact of climate change on the situation of women.
in writing. although i believe that the implementation of a biodiversity strategy is very important, i voted against this report, which is flawed on certain specific points concerning fisheries. i also hope that the european parliament will follow the advice of the johannesburg and nagoya conferences which propose to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015 if possible, if not 2020. that is the position i support. the report also gives inaccurate figures, particularly on the number of stocks fished beyond maximum sustainable yield today. i also believe that the reform of the common fisheries policy is based on an undefined and unproven principle, namely the alleged overcapacity of the european fleet. i think that since there are no figures on fishing capacity, there can be no policies based on overcapacity.
in writing. the final text submitted to parliament for a vote ignores a number of scientific findings and remains a caricature of agricultural issues, showing a lack of awareness of the agricultural reality, that of 13.5 million european farmers. i believe that the cap must remain an economic and social policy as well as an environmental policy.
in writing. while the general objectives of the report are laudable (protecting biodiversity), i could not support the adoption of this report, which calls for a break in the traditional organization of the cap: greening the agricultural policy falls exclusively within the 'second pillar' and should not, at this stage, concern the first pillar. european farmers are already facing many constraints and are making many efforts to green their practices. it is important not to impede their production any further, at a time when it is essential to preserve european production capacity and our food independence.
in writing. i voted against this report because, while fully aware of the importance and richness of biodiversity, it seems to me that the text is nonetheless excessively important and may unfairly stigmatise certain areas. i think that the passages concerning the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy are problematic: agriculture and fisheries should not be seen as intrinsically bad for biodiversity. we must instead take a more constructive view of their role in protecting and enhancing biodiversity, because the actors in these sectors have a vital part to play. the role of certain groups, such as hunters, is therefore presented in this report as negative, even though hunting plays a very important role in the management of biodiversity in our natural areas. despite some positive elements (the emphasis on better collection and sharing of scientific data, for example), this report does not seem to me to promote a balanced and fair view of the role of the various actors in our society in protecting biodiversity.
in writing. i deeply regret that the european union has not achieved the target it set for 2010. europe has a very high biodiversity both in terms of habitat and animal species, which must be protected. ecosystems are part of our cultural heritage and make the european territory unique. i voted in favour of the report on biodiversity because it advocates an active approach to environmental protection. in agriculture, biodiversity and the promotion of more sustainable agriculture are considered in a complementary way, without in any way detrimental to each other. the resolution also calls for the pooling of resources, the means of combating damage to biodiversity and the pooling of available scientific resources. it is important to understand that no country can tackle the problems of biodiversity loss alone and that this pooling of our efforts is a necessity. i also strongly support the international dimension of this text.
in writing. following the failure of the strategy to halt the erosion of biodiversity in 2010, and in response to the european parliament's request in september 2010, the european commission presented a new strategy for 2020. the report lists a large number of actions, but these are too often limited to good intentions without giving the means, including financial, to achieve its ambitions. the report is also not sufficiently critical of the current tools that are damaging to biodiversity, particularly in the areas of the cap and international trade. i therefore do not think that this new strategy is up to the mark. i therefore abstained, regretting the eu's lack of ambition in the face of the increasingly alarming situation in terms of biodiversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the environment action programmes have been a powerful driver for the adoption of sound environmental legislation in the european union. that is why i think it is important to look to the future now and to set concrete targets for 2020 and a vision for 2050. if we want to build a dynamic and environmentally friendly europe, we must have a long-term perspective, so that all economic and social actors can take the necessary measures without being short-changed or destabilised. one of our priorities must be to implement properly existing environmental legislation, which is not always respected. finally, it is important to communicate our intentions, because citizens need to know where europe is going in terms of environmental protection. our environmental policy must set an example for our non-european partners by being realistic, coherent and fully integrated into our growth objectives, without causing panic among our economic actors.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jo leinen on the seventh european environment action programme. since the early 1970s, the environment action programmes have guided the development of european union policy and have helped to move towards strong and coherent european environmental legislation. the report calls on the commission to present rapidly a proposal for a seventh action programme with concrete and ambitious long-term objectives. it proposes that the programme be based on three main lines: strengthening environmental legislation, integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies and the international dimension of environmental protection.
in writing. our environment is constantly under threat. i am particularly concerned about our unsustainable consumption patterns. to move, to enlighten ourselves, our daily gestures have an even larger carbon footprint. improving the energy efficiency of the products we use every day must therefore be encouraged. at the same time, fossil fuel reserves are dwindling and we are increasingly dependent on the countries that supply us. the next eu environment strategy focuses on reducing our dependence on oil and gas by promoting the development of renewable energy. this 7th environment action programme, which was put to our vote, also calls on the member states to better implement the existing body of legislation in the field of water. this is a strong signal for improving water quality in europe. finally, this revision of the existing programme sees the green economy as a great source of jobs and growth, which will enable us to achieve our goals for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe by 2020. it is for all these reasons that i voted in favour of this new environmental strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general thrust of the report and the three main priorities of the 7th environment action programme: - implementation and strengthening of environmental legislation; - integration of environmental objectives into all sectoral policies; - the international dimension of environmental protection. the european institutions must do all they can to strengthen environmental legislation and integrate environmental protection into other union policies. i abstained on paragraph 65 of the report, which calls for a shift from taxation of labour to the protection of resources and the fight against pollution. tax reform to be effective must be comprehensive. and as expressed here, such a transfer can only result in the maintenance of the present tax rates. once again, we must put the fine talk into practice.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating europe. this holiday of 9 may is of particular importance at a delicate moment in the economic, but above all political, construction of europe. the progress made by our countries since the signing of the robert schuman declaration is often forgotten. yet never in our history have we experienced such an area of peace and prosperity despite the current crisis. we europeans have paid a high price to understand that there is no difference between our neighbours and us. we know the value of tolerance, dialogue and solidarity, which take precedence over individualism. the rise of extremes and the temptation of populism are a challenge to us. just as right-wing populism has no place in europe, so does left-wing populism. i urge all mainstream political parties to remember that they have nothing to gain and everything to lose by trivializing extremes. intellectual shortcuts and easy solutions are nothing but demagogy. they only feed the illusions of our citizens, who are quickly disappointed. and how, in this context, can europe's democratic deficit be reduced? as i said, europe is going through a difficult period and the decisions of the coming months will be decisive for the stability of our economies and for the social cohesion of our countries. the debt crisis, the attacks on our currency in the markets in recent times, have at least had the merit of making us aware of the drift of public finances in several european countries for decades. we have shown at parliament's level, with the six-pack, with the budgetary package and soon also with the two-pack, that europe has shown the courage to take matters into its own hands and correct this trend. but we are only at the beginning of our efforts and we must not let up. i have to say, what worries me most is this current political debate between national fiscal consolidation and growth. in fact, beyond the caricatures, there are no pro-management and pro-growth groups in europe, simply because they are two sides of the same coin, as i have often said here in this house. the reality is that we cannot separate deficit reduction from growth, and you said it. there will be no sustainable growth without reducing our debt, and that reduction will be even faster the stronger the growth. the reality is that growth-promoting measures cannot be synonymous with additional expenditure. we can't afford to do that anymore. the reality is that as long as the countries with the highest expenditure do not pursue a policy of debt reduction, the countries which are making an effort to manage their affairs properly will no longer be willing to show solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, investment and growth will come from trust. and i'm not talking about artificial growth. there is only one way to do this: by making our economies more competitive in a globalised world. europe has a promising future if we all take our responsibilities and implement the decisions already taken. we know very well what is needed: to complete the single market, to invest in research and development to continue to play a leading role in the economies of the 21st century and to reduce administrative burdens to unlock the potential of our smes and our companies. in this way, and by improving our public finances, we will guarantee growth and create the jobs of the future. the declaration of robert schuman has opened a new way for europeans. now more than ever we are connected to each other. we are in solidarity, we are responsible to each other, and this implies budgetary convergence, which is under way, but also fiscal and social convergence. but this solidarity can only work if everyone makes an effort and is willing to combine sound public finances and sustainable growth. you know that robert schuman's declaration has brought us a peace plan, which is a success. let's say it too. but i would like to end with these words: solidarity, responsibility, enthusiasm, conviction and let us have a plan for the future, for growth and for jobs.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you guy. perhaps we can continue in this direction because if we are talking about 9 may, if we are talking about europe, if we are talking about all that we have achieved, we must also talk about what we must achieve so that the future belongs to the european citizens. and we must not take lightly what is happening in the elections today, because if there is a democratic deficit in europe, we must address it. if the federal europe we want is to be democratic, it must be able to respond to the problems and anxieties of the citizens. and when i see the elections today in greece, and the only solution that the central bank has found is to say: "there is no alternative to what has been decided", i say to the central bank: "watch out! remember the history of europe. remember the history of germany. remember the treaty of versailles". when people are told, "there is no solution", people come up with solutions that are sometimes horrible. and we have a responsibility to remember history. when someone says, in a democracy, "there is no alternative", he is wrong. democracy is always about finding alternatives, otherwise there's no point in doing politics. so i'm going to say something very simple. if we do not want greece to vote once, twice, three times, four times, until they finally get down on their knees and say: 'sorry, sorry europe, now we do what you want', we must reopen this memorandum today, we must discuss this memorandum, we must propose something to the greek people, because if we do not propose anything to them, the next election will give exactly the same result. and to reopen the memorandum is not to say: "no structural reforms". it simply means that the greek people must be able to keep up with the pace of reforms, and not be suffocated, strangled, thirsty or starved by the policies that are being imposed on them. if we can't give that answer, they will give ultra-fascist, ultra-reactionary, ultra-nazi, ultra-stalinist, ultra-ultra-ultra answers and it will be against us. secondly, the french people voted, and everyone knows that i was on the side of whoever won. but what i do not understand from other europeans is that you cannot say to the french people who have just voted, after a tense election: "listen, whether it is hollande or sarkozy, you must do the same". if that's the case, there's no point in voting, there's no point in changing, there's no point in doing anything. if today the french people, by a majority which is not huge - and the situation will be very difficult - decide that change is necessary, then it is up to all of europe to ask how to change. and if mr monti is listening to what is happening in italy - and we saw this in the municipal elections - then things must change a little in italy too. and in spain, mr rajoy knows that it needs to change a little too. it is therefore clear that today there is no question of repeating the same thing over and over again, between stability, growth, etc. we must give hope to the people of europe. this hope cannot come from national budgets. that is to say, we europeans must take hope for the people of europe into our own hands. and what is hope? it is a european budget, it is own resources and guy is right , but to strengthen the european investment bank, to leverage and put together a programme for a green new deal, for a green transformation of the european economy. we must create jobs, if necessary by borrowing through the european investment bank, to revive the economy. then, with the european budget at our disposal, we will be able to pay back part of this stimulus. if we do not revive the european economy, if we stop, if we say: 'but no, no, you will see, everything will be fine', we will be going into the wall. neoliberal economics has led us into the wall. we have to say, we have to say to all the governments that if we don't change the pace of our economies, we will all go into the wall. i'd like to end with something very simple. they say there's a danger to the economy. but there is another danger: the danger to democracy. if the people no longer believe that we are capable of controlling our lives, of controlling the necessary changes, history shows us that the people are not going towards the revolution that will save us all but are leading us towards horror. we have a democratic responsibility to demonstrate that today there is an opportunity to rebalance our european policies, to put the european budget, to put europe at the centre of the necessary transformation, so that the european people say 'yes, we were right, 60 years ago, to create the european union'. we must redefine that reason and then the future will belong to us, or it will belong to the markets, but it will not belong to the european people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all, let me thank parliament and the president for the tribute paid to our colleague, miguel portas, earlier. the president paid a fine tribute to europe, but the reality for the peoples is not what has been described. if european policies are not now profoundly reoriented, there is a serious risk of the european union's implosion, with serious consequences for the people. the austerity imposed on the people, while the wealth is hoarded by a minority that privatizes, is not only unjust but is, today, totally ineffective. we must therefore draw conclusions from this, and we must do so as soon as possible. we must take account of what has just happened in the last few days: the rejection of the austerity plan by the romanian parliament and then in the netherlands, the victory of françois hollande in france, the defeat of all the pro-austerity parties in the local elections in italy, spain, the united kingdom and germany and finally the rejection of the austerity plan in greece. we must respect the vote of the greek people, seek a new path with the left and abandon the troika memorandum. we cannot accept the austerity budget treaty of mr sarkozy and mrs merkel. the addition of a so-called 'growth' protocol is completely contrary to the treaty itself. so we have to abandon it and find another way. we must invent it, invent a new pact for human, social and ecological development, with a special financial fund, with a new role for the european central bank, which must provide credit for development, that is to say, the improvement of purchasing power, the creation and safeguarding of employment, innovation, research, the creation of new public services, the ecological transformation of our continent. there's a whole other future out there. the european investment bank, whose capital should be increased, a new use of the structural funds, a financial transaction tax, a harmonized tax on capital would be the levers for such a human development fund, to which we could add the monetary creation of the european central bank for the states and no longer for the banks. instead of competition, let us invent a european minimum wage and a minimum income, and an action plan against poverty. at the same time, a moratorium on some of the debts of the past should be imposed and the european central bank should be asked to lend directly to the member states at the rate of 1%. in this connection, i would like the commission and the council to report on the use of the 1 000 billion euro that the european central bank has lent to private banks. finally, in view of the gravity of the situation and the threats that lie ahead, i propose that parliament should take the initiative of a large european forum with all the national parliaments, the economic and social committees, the trade unions and associations, in order to draw up a complete re-foundation of the european union.
mr president, after visiting the field in july 2011, i was of course deeply moved, as were all my colleagues, by the stories, the journeys, the courage, the path traveled by these men, women and children who suffered, arriving every day in italy on the island of lampedusa, before being crammed into detention centres in painful conditions, sometimes defying all humanity, flouting all human dignity, far from the european dream so coveted. there are both questions that arise and long-term political effects. questions: following our visits, we all complained about the lack of information and today, after a year, we still lack information. how are new arrivals handled? how many people have arrived? what are the conditions under which they are housed today? how many have been transferred to other centres or to the mainland and what about the programmes on the island itself? we would like to know how the italian authorities have used the more than 232 million euros that have been given to them to be able to respond to this difficult situation. but there are also long-term political effects. apart from the fact that the italian island with its dream beaches will forever be dramatically famous the island of all hopes for the arrival of these many mediterranean boat people , i regret that this lampedusa crisis has brought us to where we are today. this migration crisis was caused by the unfortunate management of the arrival of these migrants, which led to the famous france-italy episode, to the granting of temporary residence permits to migrants by italy, and then to the closure of borders by france and mr sarkozy, leading to a dramatic result for europe and the construction of europe, to a debate, which is now highly politicized, on the schengen area, and to a situation where europeans no longer like europe because of schengen and where this is reflected in the ballot box. so we need a real policy ...
in writing. concrete and realistic proposals: this report is the pragmatic counterpart to the commission's communications following the 2011 democratic movements in the arab world. the rapporteur stresses the need for a coordinated, flexible and proactive eu policy, and in this respect he echoes the aspirations of civil society in the southern mediterranean countries. i would add, however, that the economic integration which the eu advocates and wants to develop must above all focus on south-south economic integration. the european commission, in its communications, considers that economic integration necessarily requires integration into the european market. i believe that this is only the second step: once the markets of the countries of the south are integrated and the eu has helped them to adapt to its technical and health standards, then access to the european internal market will be of real interest and will have a real impact on the economies of the south. i also support the rapporteur's idea of analysing, through regular impact studies, the effects of european trade policy on the economic systems of these countries. such monitoring will allow for rapid adjustment of european measures.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. - madam president, first of all i would like to commend the efforts made by cepol, which has recovered well from the cases we have seen. i regret, however, that the amendments i tabled in the committee on budgetary control concerning the merger of cepol and europol were not adopted and i oppose the amendments adopted in the vote in committee and the merger. the european commission will propose a new legal basis, probably in the autumn or early next year. i think the libe committee is much more competent than the committee on budgetary control to adopt this new legal base proposal. i also propose to give discharge to the three agencies (emea, efsa and eea). why would you do that? because we do not have enough evidence to justify a postponement or even a refusal of the discharge in the autumn.
madam president, i shall speak on the issue of discharge to the agencies and specifically to the european food safety authority. more than two years ago, i questioned mr dali about the existence of a conflict of interest in the person of the agency's president, mrs banati. it turned out that i was right: yesterday mrs banati was forced to resign on the eve of the vote that is to follow. after resigning, she was recruited as the director of the largest international food lobby, ilsi, where all companies in the sector are present. we have a real problem today. everyone recognizes that, including the head of this agency. the question of conflicts of interest and transparency of evaluations must be addressed. it's the same with medication. what i am asking for today is that the vote on discharge be postponed, not because of a financial issue, but, very clearly, to ask the commission to put in place clear rules on transparency and the fight against conflicts of interest. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think this is a positive step, but it is not enough. we need clear rules. but today we have no clear rules on conflicts of interest, not only in the appointment of the boards of directors but also in the appointment of the experts. that is why i think we must take time. if we reject this discharge, we have a historic opportunity to organize transparency so that there is no ambiguity about the agencies. i am in favour of agencies, their development and also of increasing their public funding to avoid conflicts of interest with the private sector. i am now fighting for the strengthening of the agencies, but this absolutely requires the fight against conflicts of interest and transparency.
in writing. i have approved the proposal to amend the regulation on protection against dumping on imports from countries not members of the european union. certain provisions were in fact contrary to the wto anti-dumping agreement and to the wto agreement itself in article xvi.4 of the wto agreement. my vote shows my commitment to wto standards. however, when the european union considers that there is unfair competition from certain foreign companies, we are not prepared to accept everything. because our companies depend on it, suppliers who import from countries which do not respect the rules of the market economy will be financially sanctioned.
in writing. on the basis of the report by portuguese mep vital moreira, i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the 2009 council regulation on defence against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. on 28 july 2011, the dispute settlement body of the world trade organisation (wto) adopted the report on appeal in the case 'european communities - final anti-dumping measures concerning certain iron or steel fasteners originating in china'. in those reports, it was found, inter alia, that article 9 (5) of the council regulation of november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community was incompatible with wto rules. the purpose of this legislative proposal is to implement the recommendations and decisions of the lord. i hope that the european commission and the committee on international trade have respected the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to allow the implementation of the recommendations of the dsb concerning european 'anti-dumping' arrangements. i agree with the rapporteur's amendments to the basic anti-dumping regulation and welcome the adoption of this report, as the deadlines for implementing the recommendations of the dsb will be respected. i would like to remind you that while the european union must respect the agreements reached in the wto, it is nevertheless essential to ensure that the development of our trade with china is carried out in accordance with the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which will make it possible to combat unfair competition from certain foreign companies. suppliers importing from countries which do not respect the rules of the market economy will have to pay higher customs duties at europe's borders. we must protect our companies against this distorted competition, which we can no longer tolerate!
in writing. parliament approved by a large majority the report to clarify the measures to combat subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the aim of the scheme is to bring the eu's anti-dumping measures into line with the recommendations and decisions of the dispute settlement body of the world trade organisation (wto). on 19 january 2012, the european union and china agreed to implement these recommendations within a reasonable timeframe, which is set at 12 october 2012.
in writing. this report and the amendment it endorses do not protect against abuse. it only maintains and codifies discrimination against states which do not adhere to the market economy. it targets nations that have a significant influence on prices and production, or companies in which the state is the majority shareholder. the european protectionism proposed to us serves liberalization instead of serving the interests of the citizens of europe and of third countries. not a word here against social and environmental dumping and the misuse of devaluations. that is the main thing for me. the only thing that is at issue here is the refusal to conform to the laws of the market economy and of free and undistorted competition. i am voting against this text.
in writing. in the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement, the european community and the government of the russian federation concluded an agreement on trade in certain steel products in 2007, setting quotas. but as you know, russia recently joined the wto after almost 20 years of negotiations. we therefore no longer have any reason to impose steel import quotas, especially since the continuation of these quotas would be a violation of wto rules. this is good news for the international community and for the european union itself. the european commission estimates that additional european exports of metal and steel products will amount to approximately €107 million per year.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for the repeal of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2007 on trade in certain steel products with the russian federation. i note that the european steel import quotas cannot be maintained after russia has become a member of the wto. i hope that the liberalization of bilateral trade in steel products will improve the competitiveness of the european steel industry. i believe that the repeal of this regulation could allow european union companies to improve their access to the russian market.
in writing. this approval takes note of the recent accession of russia to the wto in december 2011. the european union must maintain and develop its trade relations with that country, which must be based on mutual respect for the commitments entered into under the agreement. this decision should not, however, prevent us from remaining vigilant to possible obstacles to trade that could be maintained both in russia and within the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which draws the consequences of russia's accession to the wto. in accordance with the rules of this organization, it is in fact aimed at the total elimination of trade barriers, which the european union and russia will now have to comply with scrupulously. the reciprocal benefits and restrictions will finally be at stake with this economic partner!
in writing. the report endorses the lifting of import quotas for russian steel products in europe. in doing so, it favours large groups such as arcelor mittal, which are relocating to russia and closing down blast furnaces in france and belgium. obviously, no social or ecological considerations prevailed in this decision. i am voting against this text, which is contrary to the ecological planning which i am promoting and to the relocation of the steel industry which it implies.
in writing. for the sake of efficiency, the administration must move to the digital age. it is the guarantee of a fast, accessible and safe administration for all european citizens. it is also a way of limiting the cost of administrative procedures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders. this will make it easier for citizens to do so, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the electronic version of the official journal of the european union will now have a legally binding character. this is an important step forward for european democracy, which confirms our desire to make the union's legislative texts visible, now accessible to the greatest number. this innovation simplifies the eu's work and at the same time saves money by eliminating paper, which makes the management of financial resources more efficient.
in writing. i have supported this new regulation, which establishes the electronic edition of the official journal as the only authentic version of the oj, replacing the paper version. the text promotes better access to european law for citizens, by recognising the major role played today by new information technologies, including the internet, in the dissemination of european law. the resulting reduction in the printing of the oj will also, in the long run, save money and reduce the environmental impact of the european institutions' activities.
in writing. i believe, as my colleagues have pointed out, that the circumstances surrounding the acts of corneliu vadim tudor are not directly or obviously connected with the performance of mr tudor's duties as a member of the european parliament and, therefore, i have decided not to defend his immunity. this decision means that the legal proceedings can continue.
in writing. regional airports in europe are too often underestimated. it is imperative that they be supported and better integrated. as my colleague philip bradbourn has pointed out, the commission tends to overlook the opportunities that regional airports represent for eu integration and prosperity. you already know my commitment to the development of europe's regions. well, these airports can help to revitalise local economies, which is what europe badly needs. in this resolution i call for the better integration of small airports into the transeuropean transport network, because they make it possible to give greater dynamism to regional networks and are a source of job creation. the increased use of regional airports would also provide relief to the major airports by reducing congestion. i also pointed out that airlines accumulate fees as they book tickets online, which is tantamount to misleading the consumer and putting regional airports at a disadvantage.
in writing. it is through spatial planning that we can strengthen social and territorial cohesion in the union. i therefore welcome this report which recalls the vital importance of regional aviation in the development of europe's regions. we want to ensure a tightly knit territory. however, the report also points out that care must be taken not to encourage the proliferation of regional airports, since this trend would ultimately run counter to the initial objectives, both in economic terms (too high costs to bear) and in environmental terms, or in terms of territorial logic (insufficient traffic). the report also provides an opportunity to highlight certain abusive practices by low-cost airlines. the restrictions on luggage, for example, deserve more scrutiny, as do the fees added to the original ticket price. consumers must be provided with high quality service, regardless of the company. this report is going in the right direction. it is now up to the european commission to make regional airports key elements of an efficient european transport network, covering the whole territory.
in writing. i have approved the bradbourn report, which aims to develop the attractiveness of regional airports. i am glad that this text recognises the driving role of airport infrastructure in regional growth and development. it seems to me important that the commission should take account of the specific features of regional airports in its legislative proposals for the air transport sector. two aspects in particular have attracted my attention: the need to reduce congestion at the main airport hubs and the need to promote interconnection of spaces. this objective is consistent with the logic of the atlantic strategy, on which i am the rapporteur.
in writing. the report has the merit of clearly and effectively highlighting the added value of regional airports as growth engines. multimodality, interconnection, these airports are the beating heart of the regions' economic activity. the report aims to give them the importance they deserve in european legislation. the european parliament, which is due to vote on the airport package in the coming weeks, is sending a strong message to the european commission today.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which aims to give a special legal status to airports and regional services. the european institutions have finally understood the importance of supporting our regional airports, which actively contribute to strengthening the local economic fabric and promoting our territories. legislation cannot be made without taking account of the specific features of each airport and the expectations of the citizens. we are also sending a strong message to the european commission by asking for the inclusion of certain regional airports among the major infrastructure projects which will be eligible for european funding via the transeuropean transport network.
in writing. i voted against this report because it calls for specific attention and financial support for regional airports, without any conditions relating to safety or the environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. these amendments were all rejected, which left me no choice but to vote against the report.
in writing. as the crisis and disparities between regions in the european union intensify, territorial cohesion must be at the heart of eu policies more than ever. it is this essential principle that i have wanted to reaffirm in voting for this report. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. moreover, as we are discussing the revision of the ten-t, regional airports should be given a prominent place in this debate alongside the other major european transport hubs. this seems to me to be essential to achieve an optimal networking of the european territory.
in writing. ensuring the future of our regional airports is essential for two obvious reasons: firstly, they are strategic transport hubs that allow the horizons of traditional trade routes to be broadened, and secondly, they contribute to the development of our territories and the strengthening of the local economic fabric. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has adopted by a large majority the report on regional airports and air services, which aims to clarify the special legal status of regional airports and to clarify certain sensitive issues such as state aid and start-up aid for airlines, the question of price transparency, the 'one-way baggage' rule and any other restrictions affecting competition.
in writing. this report rightly states that the proliferation of regional airports must be avoided. the committee also calls for the construction and extension of a regional airport to be subject to local and regional consultation, as should be the case for notre-dame-des-landes. i agree with him on that. but the text also promotes the transport of goods by air. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i cannot vote for such a text. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which underlines that european air transport policy does not currently pay enough attention to regional airports. the latter have real potential for growth. the work on the single european sky initiative must be accelerated and the specific role of regional airports in our transport networks better taken into account: they are an important source of social and economic development for regions - especially those where other forms of transport are lacking, they are an attractive pole for new businesses, and they can be a vehicle for increasing regional tourism. the report also addresses an important point for consumer protection: the practice of certain of the main low-cost airlines, namely excessive booking fees and restrictions on carry-on baggage, which discourage travellers from buying goods at airports. tackling the practice of 'single baggage' - by setting common weight limits or by capping the charges for excess baggage - will stimulate the development of retail trade at regional airports and even in the regions themselves.
in writing. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us, the members of parliament, to decide whether or not to give discharge for the implementation of the budget for the previous financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation. in the european parliament we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. as regards the 2010 budget of the european commission, we voted for it. however, we ask the european commission to reduce the error rate, which was up to 7.7% in the areas of cohesion, energy and transport.
in writing. i voted to discharge the european commission on the basis of the report by my excellent colleague christofer fjellner, who has done a tremendous job in difficult circumstances. i cannot understand why the european court of auditors and the 27 national audit bodies do not work together sufficiently. concerning the consolidated accounts, it is not normal to present them with negative equity and not to recognise the claim that the european union has on the member states for the pensions of staff whose debt is, moreover, provisioned for liabilities.
in writing. the european commission, through commissioner algirdas šemeta, has just shown its goodwill by finally committing itself to further implement the interinstitutional agreement. what we were asking for most was for the commission to publish the annual reports sent by the member states on their accounts. there is a regulation to improve public access to eu institutions' documents. it is a fight we are waging in the european parliament for greater transparency and closer cooperation between the institutions. it is therefore good news that the commission is listening to our requests. however, we remain vigilant and will ensure that the dissemination of documents is actually improved, because the interinstitutional agreement should have been in force for too long and we should have a real overview of the implementation of the eu budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge to the commission on budgetary implementation. i note, however, an increase in the error rate for expenditure under cohesion policy, but also for energy and transport. i fully agree with the report on increasing transparency and budgetary efficiency. i am also committed to the use of the various control mechanisms to ensure that the member states manage european funds properly.
in writing. parliament approved the european commission's budgetary expenditure for 2010 after obtaining transparency commitments. better management and more effective control systems are needed. in future, national political authorities will have to account for how european funds have been spent in their country by signing national management declarations. the financial crisis currently affecting europe is also having an impact on the eu budget. we cannot tolerate scandal or mismanagement of funds.
in writing. any budget with an error rate of more than 2% is considered by the european court of auditors to be materially flawed. however, i felt that the commission was not alone responsible, as the member states have the necessary instruments to detect some of the errors. the systematic sanction is not based on a constructive approach; i preferred to vote for discharge and to give the european commission the means to correct the mistakes.
in writing. we, the parliamentarians, are obliged to vote on whether or not to grant discharge to the other institutions and agencies of the european union. we must also conduct our own self-criticism and this time we have endorsed our own accounts. within our budget and as an example, we have europarltv, the parliament's television channel launched in 2008, which unfortunately does not attract enough european citizens. we also have a budget for hosting tens of thousands of visitors (283 000 last year). each member of parliament has the opportunity to sponsor 110 visitors per year. you can also visit my website www.sophieauconie.eu for more information!
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the european parliament discharge for the financial year 2010. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to allocate the available funds more effectively and avoid unnecessary expenditure. i note the difficulties faced by europarltv. i would like to stress, however, the importance of having adequate communication tools to keep citizens informed of the european parliament's activities.
in writing. the vote was an opportunity to revive the debate on the location of the european parliament's seat. however, this situation refers to historical references and legal texts which cannot be called into question by often erroneous attacks on the costs or damage of the dispersion of the european parliament's premises. the question of strasbourg or brussels does not arise here, since according to the treaties on which our union is historically founded, strasbourg is the rule and brussels the exception.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution accompanying the discharge for the implementation of the 2010 budget of the european parliament. while i support the general guidelines contained in this resolution, i strongly oppose two amendments (amendments nos 6 and 15) which are clearly anti-strasbourg and which have been adopted and incorporated into this resolution. the debate and attacks on the location of the european parliament's seat are coming up more and more regularly, and i am paying close attention to them. it was a symbol for a long time. but today it is above all a legal and political issue. i remain firmly committed to this ongoing fight to maintain the seat of the european parliament in our beautiful european capital. i also voted against amendment no 4, which called for the abolition of the lux prize, which is awarded annually by the european parliament to films that are at the heart of the european public debate and illustrate the universality of european values, cultural diversity and the process of european integration.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european parliament because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation. we have asked the secretary-general of the council of the european union to answer a few additional questions. discharge must be based on transparency and mutual accountability . the postponement of the adoption of the discharge was voted, even though i thought that discharge could have been granted.
in writing. i did not vote for the proposal to postpone the discharge to the council proposed in the report by my spanish colleague inés ayala sender. i did not vote for discharge in the committee on budgetary control by mistake. my intention, as last year, was to do so. i note that the european court of auditors has not made any observations on the management of the council, and i regret that my proposal for a legal study on the european parliament's power to grant discharge to the council was not taken up, in particular to examine the consequences for discharge of the creation of the european union as a legal personality by the treaty of lisbon. i find these debates between the council, which considers that, unlike the other institutions of the union, it is not responsible for the use of the funds put at its disposal, and the claim that giving discharge to the commission is equivalent to giving discharge for the whole of the union budget, including the parts of the budget used by the council, ridiculous. all these debates are not making the committee on budgetary control bigger. i hope things clear up quickly.
in writing. the european parliament is the eu's budgetary authority, on an equal footing with the council. this is still a hard truth for some to accept: by not voting for discharge, we want to push the council towards greater transparency. the answer to the questionnaire we send each year, the attendance at meetings and public hearings are all actions which can embody the good interinstitutional relations we expect from the council. cooperation is not a matter of course, while the european parliament shows responsibility by voting each year a budgetary discharge for each eu institution and agency - an action that is far from superfluous, as we see every year. the council should finally enter fully into this cooperation relationship between two institutions which are on an equal footing in budgetary matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the 2010 discharge decision on the general budget of the eu for the council, as i consider that parliament has not received the necessary elements from the council to properly exercise its role of control over this institution.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the court of justice's 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i was in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the court of auditors' budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the economic and social committee. this is the final budgetary control for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to give the committee of the regions discharge for its 2010 budget. this is the final budgetary control for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the european ombudsman's 2010 budget. this is the final budgetary control for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european data protection supervisor. this is the final budgetary control for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation. in the european parliament we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to give discharge to the 2010 budget as regards the performance, financial management and control of the agencies. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to give discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the union for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european centre for vocational training. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european centre for vocational training because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations about the reliability of the accounts or the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to give discharge to the european police college (cepol) for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european police college because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions. i also welcome the good work of the agency since the arrival of the new director.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the community fisheries control agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the community fisheries control agency as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to give discharge to the european aviation safety agency for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european aviation safety agency as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2010 budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa), the expenditure having been validated by both the court of auditors and the committee on budgetary control. i am concerned, however, about the criticisms of the agency's methods of considering tenders in the context of contracts. the eu, which is always strict with our companies and member states in enforcing the principle of free and undistorted competition, must be exemplary in this respect. we cannot tolerate any form of discrimination or preferential treatment. i therefore sincerely hope that the court of auditors' report will encourage the commission to ask the easa for clarification, which, i would remind you, is subject to the community rules on public procurement.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to grant discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. in the european parliament, we were voting this week on whether or not to grant discharge to the budgets of the european institutions and agencies for the year 2010. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european chemicals agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european chemicals agency as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to the european environment agency, which is doing a great job. however, a majority of my colleagues have asked for a postponement of the vote in order to investigate possible conflicts of interest affecting the functioning of the agency. the executive director of the agency has also been a member of the international advisory committee of the ngo earthwatch (an international environmental organisation), so the european parliament will take the time to examine the agency's accounts in more detail and send a signal: conflicts of interest, if they are proven and can have an impact on the functioning of the agencies, will not be tolerated.
in writing. i voted for the postponement of the discharge to the european environment agency, as i did for the medicines agency and efsa. the landfills of these three agencies have been postponed, and i welcome that. in these votes we are using 100% of our budgetary authority. the aim is to point out the shortcomings in these agencies. as far as the environment agency is concerned, the existence of conflicts of interest and internal management problems - particularly in terms of the management of expenditure - led me to vote for the postponement of the landfill. we now have until october to judge what commitments the heads of these three agencies will make to streamline their operation and justify the use of their budget in the most transparent way.
in writing. the european environment agency does not have the same powers or functions as some other agencies whose budget discharge has been requested to be deferred. its mission is to provide reliable and independent information on the environment. i think that if there is any doubt about the transparency of certain financing or about conflicts of interest, we must take the time to clarify these doubts, which is why i voted in favour of postponing the discharge.
in writing. as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to efsa, the european food safety authority. very involved in the european parliament on food safety issues, i visited efsa to better understand the functioning of the agency, discuss its scientific opinions and raise the issue of its financial management. i have seen the quality of the work carried out by this agency. however, a majority of my colleagues have asked for the vote to be postponed in order to investigate possible conflicts of interest affecting the functioning of the vote. the deferral now gives the european parliament time to audit the agency's accounts in more detail.
in writing. a sure sign: on the day we vote to discharge efsa, the chair of the agency's board of directors resigns. the reason: she had accepted a job in an industrial lobby, which was incompatible with her job at the european agency. unfortunately, this is not the only instance of conflict of interest in the agency: some managers, for example, joined pro-gmo companies after leaving efsa, or, conversely, are now responsible for efsa while they were part of pro-gmo lobbies. these conflicts of interest must end! the agencies which we consider to be independent, and which have been set up to provide advice and authorization in an impartial manner, should not be subject to the control of certain industrial interests. today in parliament we have said 'stop' by a majority, and we are awaiting the court of auditors' report in june next before we take a decision again in october on the discharge to the agencies in question.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments denouncing the risks of conflict of interest within european agencies and proposing to guard against such practices in the future. i also chose to abstain on the final vote on the cases of the food safety authority, the european medicines agency and the environment agency. the french socialists, anxious not to impede the proper execution of the important programmes currently being carried out, did not wish to go beyond abstention. the aim is to shed light on practices that may be contrary to the agencies' original objectives.
in writing. i voted against the discharge for the european food safety authority (efsa) because it is unacceptable that an eu agency is subject to conflicts of interest. efsa is the agency in charge of the health of citizens, it cannot have any links with private interests. the european parliament has just voted to oblige the commission to commit itself to taking rapid and mandatory measures to ensure the independence and transparency of efsa, which needs a thorough reform.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for efsa. i therefore deeply regret that the discharge was postponed to october because the conditions were not met. the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations with regard to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for efsa. the internal audit service, on the other hand, does not mention any "critical" recommendations, which would constitute the most worrying level of ias recommendations. i also do not think that the rapporteur's approach in his report, which mentions 'alleged conflicts of interest', is relevant. the agency has established rules to prevent potential conflicts of interest, but it also needs the expertise of agents who have worked in the private sector. the cases of experts with previous experience in the private sector do not mean that they do not exercise their new functions objectively. you'd have to prove otherwise before you'd convict the agency of that. however, these elements are not mentioned in the report.
in writing. as president of the women at the centre association, i consider the work of the european institute for gender equality to be essential. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of this institute. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european institute for gender equality because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to the european medicines agency. however, a majority of my colleagues have asked for a postponement of the vote in order to investigate possible conflicts of interest affecting the functioning of the agency. the deferral now gives the european parliament time to audit the agency's accounts in more detail.
in writing. as with efsa, in the case of the european medicines agency, i considered it important not to grant budgetary discharge, in order to play our full role as budgetary authority and to shed light on cases of conflicts of interest in these two agencies, which are essential for europeans as they aim to grant marketing authorisations for products intended for consumption. the greatest vigilance and a requirement of complete impartiality are therefore required. since the conflict of interest policy was only adopted in april 2012, it is appropriate to postpone the discharge vote until october, so that we have time to assess the substance of the commitments made.
in writing. following much pressure from the greens, the european medicines agency (ema) has finally put in place a new procedure to avoid conflicts of interest within the agency. i'm glad you did. i have nevertheless voted against the discharge for the ema, because there is no question of giving the agency a discharge until it has proved that it is actually implementing what it proposes on paper. it is essential that the european union does everything possible to ensure full transparency in the award of public contracts, conflicts of interest and systematic violations of important internal procedures.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction because the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the 2010 budget of the european maritime safety agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european maritime safety agency as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2010 budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa), the expenditure having been validated by the court of auditors. the agency, which was set up in the wake of the erika disaster, has the means to prevent all causes of pollution and to combat its disastrous effects on the environment and human health, and is a pillar of the protection of our seas. as we renegotiate its mandate, i hope we will be vigilant to ensure that its action is both useful and effective in the future, and that it remains a tool with high european added value. in particular, it is necessary to be realistic and to ask the agency only what it can do, especially in a context of budgetary constraints. i believe that these new tasks must be consistent with its core mission, which is to safeguard the safety and security of the community's maritime areas and the environment. i therefore support the idea of a mission to prevent and combat pollution caused by offshore platforms and stress the importance of any extension of its missions being accompanied by an extension of its financial and material resources.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european network and information security agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european network and information security agency as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the european railway agency for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european railway agency as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. as the accounts and expenditure of the european railway agency (era) for 2010 have been found to be reliable and legal by the court of auditors, i have, by my vote, granted discharge to the director of the agency. while the legality of the expenditure is established, and while i fully share the afe's objective of enhancing the level of interoperability of the european railway systems, i do not think it is normal for it to transfer from one year to the next the considerable sums allocated to it strictly for the execution of an annual budget. the agency carried over more than eur 5 million from the financial year 2010 to the financial year 2011 and had already done so from 2008 to 2009. this practice, which is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuity, cannot become a habit and will not be tolerated any longer in this period when public spending must be rationalised and exemplary! the afe must take into account the criticisms of our assembly, already made in 2010, or else it will be subject to sanctions by the budgetary authority.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the 2010 budget of the european training foundation. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european training foundation because the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the budget for 2010 of the euratom supply agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the euratom supply agency as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge eurojust's 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to eurojust because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge europol's 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to europol because the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the 2010 budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european union agency for fundamental rights as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to grant discharge to the budget for 2010 of the european agency for the management of operational coordination at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the frontex agency because the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. the european court of auditors found that the management of frontex's accounts was sound, but the agency once again made numerous budgetary postponements due to the non-use of part of the funds previously allocated to it. this does not prevent it from once again asking for and obtaining increases in its budget. the mandate of frontex was revised in 2011, expanding its powers and mandate, but mainly with regard to the return of migrants. the appointment of a human rights officer, as requested by the european parliament, is still pending in order to ensure that frontex can carry out its fundamental rights obligations as effectively as it has done. this vote concerned only the discharge for the management of the agency's budget and not the budget itself. i have therefore, like my group, chosen to abstain in order to avoid endorsing in any way the practices which always seem to us to be equally objectionable but which are more a matter of the agency's mandate than of the management of its accounts. the european ombudsman announced on 14 march that he was launching an inquiry into the agency's compliance with its fundamental rights obligations. we're waiting for his conclusions.
in writing. i voted to give discharge to the 2010 budget of the european gnss agency. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european gnss agency as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of artemis - embedded it systems. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to 'artemis - embedded computing systems' as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget for clean sky - aeronautics and environment. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of clearing clean sky - aeronautics and environment as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to grant discharge to the eniac joint undertaking for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eniac joint undertaking as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted on the discharge for the implementation of the budget for 2010 of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch). discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch) as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines (jti). discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines (jti) as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted to grant discharge to the sesar joint undertaking for the 2010 budget. discharge is the final control of the budget for a given year. after the audit and finalisation of the annual accounts, it is up to the council of the european union to issue a recommendation and then to us parliamentarians to decide whether or not to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the union budget for the preceding financial year. this decision is based, inter alia, on an examination of the annual accounts and on the annual report of the court of auditors. discharge is therefore the political part of the external control of budget implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the sesar joint undertaking as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this joint venture brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. the sesar joint undertaking, which is responsible for the modernisation of air traffic management, presented a satisfactory financial report for 2010. i therefore voted in favour of this discharge without reservation, which confirms the legality and appropriateness of its expenditure. sesar funding is mainly aimed at developing a european system incorporating new technologies, new ways of organising and new industrial components for air traffic management. in the long term, this will enable us to reduce the number of flights in european airspace, to cope with the lack of capacity at airports and to ensure the safety and smoothness of traffic, which is expected to more than double in the next 20 years. sesar is in fact aimed at meeting the future challenges of a sector essential to the economy and european cohesion: reduction of co2 emissions, higher fuel prices, saturation of airports. i therefore place great hope in this partnership between eurocontrol and the eu, which makes it possible to streamline and coordinate research efforts, and i invite this joint venture to mobilise its surplus of eur 57 million in order to realise the single european sky as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the union as the european court of auditors has not made any reservations as to the reliability of the accounts or the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i also believe that this agency brings a great deal of added value to the work of the european institutions.
in writing. the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud contains the most recent information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. this year's report pays particular attention to the risk of double funding in the area of cohesion policy. the report considers that this is not a satisfactory situation, and i voted for the european commission and the member states to inform the european parliament of all irregularities and fraud that have been found. the control of the management of european funds is imperative, they are a valuable tool that i try to defend every day in the european parliament and in my constituency.
in writing. in these times of crisis, we need to rethink how we control eu spending. the european parliament has decided to look at the commission's 2010 report on the fight against fraud, which gives it the opportunity to propose concrete measures for good management. in particular, it encourages the implementation of special measures, with the development of e-government and reliable statistical data to improve transparency and fight fraud. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report, which presents the suspicions of fraud and irregularities observed in the actions carried out by the european union. i was particularly concerned by the increase in irregularities in a large majority of the union's policy areas and by the risks of double funding in cohesion policy. i hope that the commission and the member states will take our recommendations into account and take their responsibilities to ensure that parliament is fully informed of all irregularities and fraud that have been found. we must have better control over the management of european public funds, to which all our citizens contribute, directly or indirectly.
in writing. until now, mobile phone charges abroad have been significantly higher than domestic charges. the text of angelika niebler was therefore approved by an overwhelming majority. this text illustrates how much europe is working to make your everyday life as a consumer easier. after tough negotiations, the 'roaming' regulation will require mobile operators in europe to charge the same prices, lower than those currently charged, as from july. the text introduces for the first time structural solutions which will allow consumers to choose freely another operator for roaming services, independently of their national operator. the text provides for the temporary application of new retail and wholesale tariff ceilings for voice calls, text messages and, above all, data transfers. we now have a future solution. injecting competition into the roaming markets will, for the first time, provide structural and sustainable consumer protection. because competition is the best way to ensure low prices in the long term", said neelie kroes, commissioner for digital strategy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the niebler report which calls for the introduction of roaming tariff ceilings for mobile communications. i note that the report lowers the ceilings originally proposed by the commission. this is very good news for european users who have been penalized when travelling abroad. two points in particular caught my attention: the idea of enforcing the roaming regulation outside the european union to extend the protection of european users, and the possibility of subscribing to a roaming contract separate from the national mobile phone contract from 2014. both measures are designed to improve the situation of users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the compromise text negotiated with the council on the roaming regulation, which will allow europeans to use their mobile phones abroad at lower rates. we socialists have called for the abolition of these artificial frontiers within the internal market, because they are contrary to the very spirit of the european project and its founding fathers. that is why we have asked the commission to act quickly to bring the end of roaming into effect as early as 2016. in addition to the application of mobile roaming tariffs lower than those currently applied from july, the text introduces for the first time structural solutions which will allow consumers to choose freely another operator for roaming services, independently of their national operator. this has been the case since july 2014.
in writing. we voted in favour of a report which makes the idea of a europe that protects consumers a reality for all european consumers. the lowering of the price ceilings for calls, sms and mobile internet will be immediate and gradual. moreover, consumers will be able to benefit from it as early as this summer. i am very pleased with the progress that this new regulation promises to bring to the mobile telephony market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which improves the control of european consumers over their mobile phone bill when travelling abroad. the european parliament is setting a ceiling on prices for data, calls and sms exchanges from abroad, in order to reduce the high cost of mobile communications outside the national territory. it also ensures better information for citizens, who can now make informed choices about these communications. by adopting these measures, the european parliament has committed itself to creating competition in the mobile telephony market and thus putting an end to unfairly charged overheads by telephone operators as from 1 july 2012.
in writing. while three out of four europeans use their mobile phone when travelling, many have experienced a 'bill shock'. competition in the mobile roaming sector within the union is still weak, resulting in very high prices for consumers. i am pleased that agreement was reached at first reading on a text which i am convinced provides effective solutions to improve the situation on the mobile roaming market for european consumers. on the one hand, decoupling of domestic and roaming mobile telephone service activities will improve competition: a consumer will thus be able to choose whether or not to keep the same provider for his communications when travelling, and will benefit from more favourable tariffs. on the other hand, the gradual reduction by 2014 of the maximum prices allowed for billing calls, sms and data volumes will greatly benefit consumers. in addition, consumers will benefit from a number of measures to improve transparency: information on prices for roaming outside the eu, information on accumulated consumption expressed in the unit or currency of billing, safeguard ceilings (default €50).
in writing. after three years of reform which did not sufficiently reduce the bill for consumers using roaming services, we can now look forward to a significant reduction in roaming charges in the coming months, starting this summer. the socialists have been particularly active in this fight. the time has come to implement structural reforms, rather than regulating prices forever. our ultimate aim must be to eliminate the price differences between roaming and national communications in the next few years. despite the commitment of the socialists, a majority was not achieved, but this is the direction in which we must orientate our reforms in the future. it is no longer acceptable for operators to charge prohibitive rates for mobile data downloads, which have the effect of causing the unpleasant surprise of extremely high bills, due to the lack of transparency in the rates for these services. finally, i welcome the proposal to allow customers to buy roaming services from another operator than the one providing them with the national services. finally, a healthy competition that should serve the interests of the consumer!
in writing. mobile phone prices are about to drop. that is the decision which was taken by the european parliament on thursday, 10 may, and i welcome it. the report on mobile roaming provides for a number of measures to help consumers and 'virtual' operators who have so far been restricted in their access to networks owned by other operators. the main measures will include the reduction of the tariff ceilings for calls, sms and data roaming. from 2012, the price per minute for an outgoing call will be 29 cents instead of 35, 8 cents for incoming calls instead of the current 11 and 9 cents instead of 15 for sms. the price of a megabyte download will be set at 70 cents, whereas there was no ceiling until now. consumers in border regions who incur unintended roaming charges should be informed by their provider to avoid this inconvenience. when a user travels abroad, he will be able to access local data services in order to choose the most advantageous offer among the various local providers, such as for access to wifi.
in writing. under the pretext of lowering the prices of roaming services, this report organises the total deregulation of the mobile telephony market. once again, the choice is made to intensify competition in a dogmatic way without any assessment of the benefits and harms of competition already at work. i vote against it.
in writing. exports and imports of hazardous chemicals require close control. this report provides the necessary legal and environmental certainty. the main elements of the proposal now provide greater clarity for exporters, while not entailing any additional administrative burden. in my political group we nevertheless wanted to make some changes to dan jørgensen's report. but he has made important concessions in favour of what we stand for. the main objective of my political group has therefore been achieved. it provides that chemicals from the european union that meet all european legal standards for the environment and health are not banned from world markets or replaced by chemicals that meet lower standards. in this way, the european union can now export its chemicals, but also its legal standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the rules for trade in dangerous chemicals, in order to ensure the safety of people and the protection of the environment. this report requires in particular the prior consent of importing countries for trade in these dangerous products, including where these countries are not part of the european union. the adoption of such regulations by parliament is in line with our international commitments under the rotterdam convention and goes beyond its requirements in the service of better protection for our fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted for the jørgensen report on the revision of european legislation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. it implements the rotterdam convention in the union, and it regulates trade in these products through the exchange of information between the parties to the convention and the application of the prior informed consent (pic) procedure, i.e. the formal consent of the exporting countries to export by the importing countries. the commission proposed to revise the legislation in particular to clarify certain definitions, to involve the european chemicals agency (echa), but mainly because european legislation covering more chemical substances than the convention, the convention provided for facilitating the export of products in the absence of a response from the importing country by extending the possibilities of derogation from the pic procedure for substances which are either banned or severely restricted in the union, because of the risks they pose to human health or the environment. the report continues to frame the possibilities for derogation and opposes the possibility of exporting products against the will of importers. the report also limits echa's prerogatives by preserving member states' prerogatives in controlling trade in hazardous chemicals.
in writing. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has profoundly changed certain legislative procedures, particularly in favour of the european parliament. the comitology procedure has therefore been adapted to take account of the new powers of the european parliament. it was the system used by the member states to control the european commission when it adopts implementing measures under community legislation. but since the entry into force of the new treaty, this procedure has been transformed into a system providing for the adoption of delegated acts and implementing acts. i have approved the amendment of the new articles 87a and 88, which determine the procedure to be followed in the most general case.
in writing. while the preparation of delegated and implementing acts by the commission is necessary to ensure the effective implementation and application of decisions adopted by the council and the european parliament, the latter must have a right of access to those acts, in the context of its supervisory role over the commission. this will be the case with this text, which sets out the procedure to be followed, and which i have therefore supported. it is essential that the union acts in the sole interest of its citizens and that they have a say in all the legislative stages.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which makes the necessary changes to non-contractual obligations arising from a breach of the right to privacy and the rights of personality. i stress the right balance between freedom of expression and respect for privacy. i share the rapporteur's view that the existing legislation needs to be adapted in order to extend the scope of the law to cover the various content published on the internet. the report also helps to better determine which law is applicable in the event of a crossborder dispute.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to clarify the situation on the national law applicable to breaches of privacy and human rights. it was necessary to ensure legal certainty on this issue, since defamation complainants competed with each other in national courts to choose the courts most likely to win their case. the development of this "defamation tourism" in turn threatened freedom of expression. it is in the european interest to protect our fellow citizens in the union better, while respecting the rights of everyone!
in writing. since the arab spring, the european union has been working to promote stability and democracy in the mediterranean neighbours. to support them in their transitions, we believe it is essential to increase our trade by focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises. as the rapporteur, niccolò rinaldi, has pointed out, this trade strategy could create jobs and help to dismantle the oligarchy. our cooperation must necessarily involve financial support for small and mediumsized enterprises through the european bank for reconstruction and development and the european investment bank. we must also promote cultural and educational exchanges within the framework of the erasmus and da vinci euromed programmes. we are thus transmitting our democratic values by creating a genuine euro-mediterranean free trade area!
in writing. the report's approach supports the european commission's policy in a liberal approach. the ftaa implies a tariff dismantling and market opening which can weaken these emerging economies. the social, environmental, educational and cultural aspects are not sufficiently present, contrary to the aspirations of the people. the ftaa is also part of a long process with heavy criteria, including the obligation to align with the european internal market regulations. moreover, these numerous requirements are not linked to the prospect of integration into the european union as was the case for the countries of eastern europe. we must remember the failure of the union for the mediterranean. the approach of these agreements focuses on bilateral relations, thus neglecting support for regional integration of these countries. on the contrary, it puts them in a system of competition to be the "champions" who meet the criteria of these agreements in relation to each other. at a time when europeans are debating the possibility of a certain european protectionism, we are demanding the opposite from our partners in the south. is that consistent ? and fair ? what 's fair ? i do not think so, and that is why i am voting against this report, although there are some positive aspects to it.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which sets out the priorities for cooperation with our mediterranean neighbours and for helping them to rebuild and embark on a path of genuine economic and social development that benefits all. the arab spring revolutions have indeed provided the european union with a unique opportunity to align its foreign and trade policy interests with its core democratic values. i therefore support the commission's approach, which is to see that the political and democratic advances under way go hand in hand with greater economic and trade openness.
in writing. on the one hand, this report calls for further progress, particularly in the area of human rights and the involvement of civil society; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i could not help but abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european union to proactively support democratic transitions in north africa through trade. the report stresses the need to complete existing trade agreements and to develop them further in a dynamic manner adapted to the specific characteristics of each country. it is also an opportunity to give a clearer direction to the union's programmes, by promoting organic farming and fair trade, by regulating the arms trade, by providing general technical assistance and by supporting smes.
in writing. the european parliament reiterated its support for the process of economic development and democratisation in the countries of the southern mediterranean by adopting a report which sets out the eu strategy around two main areas: trade and investment. the report, which was adopted by a large majority, contains ambitious proposals for strengthening euro-mediterranean relations: the 'more for more' approach linking the political and economic dimensions, the active participation of civil society, support for smes, notably through the european investment bank (eib), the promotion of the european neighbourhood programme for agricultural and rural development and regional integration. the development of a special relationship with our mediterranean partners is essential for the prosperity of the area, for the deepening of economic partnership and for genuine political cooperation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which shows a broad consensus in parliament on this subject.
in writing. the only horizon offered by this report to the arab revolutions is the establishment of the free trade area that the european union had "agreed" with the overthrown regimes. he claims that this is the aspiration of the arab peoples. those who vote for this text despise the struggle of the arab peoples for a better life. i am voting against.
in writing. the arab spring is a revolution without precedent in the mediterranean world. these revolutions have redefined the relations of the southern mediterranean with the european union, building a new trade partnership, based on fundamental values such as human rights and democracy. the strength of this partnership must therefore be based on the acquis of a free trade area, regional integration and a commercial strategy. this presents a unique opportunity to cooperate in the fields of employment, growth, and to strengthen regional integration and the european union's presence through its trade, investment and financing activities. the report therefore reaffirms trade as a solid pillar of the european neighbourhood policy and as a means of involving smes by making it an additional tool for economic democratisation.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a report on the eu's trade and investment with the southern mediterranean. another report from the european union which still fails to learn the lessons of the demands expressed by citizens during what has been called the arab spring. in this report, relations between the two shores of the mediterranean remain primarily economic relations based on free trade. niccolo rinaldi (rapporteur of this text, a liberal) even dares to say that "trade (...) facilitates a more equitable sharing of wealth". he adds that some mediterranean countries "have a great deal of natural assets and resources". do we still have to ask who exploits them? and the eu is more concerned with protecting the interests of its big business than with seeing the wealth of these countries benefit the people who first and foremost made the revolution for social reasons. the gue/ngl has succeeded in getting the necessary review of the debt in the light of the odious debt incorporated in this report. i was not able to vote for this report, which is profoundly opposed to the vision of international relations which i defend.
in writing. i am a firm believer in the need for a harmonised patent system at european level, because it is an essential tool for technology transfer. however, i voted in favour of this report which provides for the protection of european breeders against excessive protection by patents. most of us have recognised that when patents provide too broad a protection, it is likely to hinder innovation and progress and to harm small and medium-sized breeders by blocking their access to plant and animal genetic resources.
in writing. on thursday 10 may i voted in favour of the resolution on the breveting of essentially biological processes. the question of patentability is a sensitive one, since it highlights, on the one hand, the need for a stronger and more appropriate protection of european innovations and, on the other hand, the need to support european enterprises by stimulating research. it is also important to set clear limits in line with our ethical principles: we cannot allow patents on life. that is why parliament voted by a large majority against the patentability of plants and animals obtained by traditional breeding methods. this vote confirms our resolve to fight the appropriation of the living. it is therefore necessary to continue our action in the following dynamic: we must protect intellectual property without limiting access to these species, preserve agricultural biotechnology without hindering european innovation.
in writing. by voting in favour of such a resolution, the european parliament sends a decisive message to the european commission and the european patent office (epo), echoing the demands of citizens: we want to put an end to the appropriation of living things! the commission is responsible for enforcing european law and the epo is called upon to respect european legislation prohibiting patents on conventional seeds. the threat of the concentration of the world's agro-genetic resources in the hands of a few seed and agro-chemical firms has dramatic consequences for our farmers and, beyond europe, for those in developing countries. while 90% of the world's biological heritage is owned by developing countries, 97% of patents are owned by industrialized countries. indigenous peoples and the poorest are also the forgotten victims of multinational corporations. the greens in the ep will remain extremely vigilant about future changes to the patent system, which is totally inadequate and which must be reformed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the patenting of biological processes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is an important subject because of its many consequences, including on agriculture, industry and food security, as well as the risks of privatisation and patentability of living things. a number of pro-gmo amendments have fortunately been rejected by the european parliament and i also welcome the fact that the european patent office (epo) is now excluding from patentability processes considered to be derived from natural crossbreeding. the resolution also proposes to extend the exclusion of patentability to a range of derivatives and genetic sources in order to avoid circumvention of exclusions. the european parliament is therefore moving in the right direction with the vote on this text, which aims to ban all marketing of live animals. the positive effects can be many and the consequences many, especially for biodiversity, and we can go even further.
in writing. the problem of piracy has become a real scourge. the current situation in the horn of africa is unacceptable and that is why we have asked the high representative of the european union, catherine ashton, to take urgent action to secure the release of the nearly 200 seamen currently held hostage by pirates. but this call must not make us forget that it is essential to address the problem by addressing the root causes of poverty in the horn of africa and the failures of somalia.
in writing. on thursday 10 may i voted in favour of the resolution on maritime piracy. just because the subject has disappeared from the news does not mean that the phenomenon has died out. on the contrary, in 2011, the indian ocean, and in particular the somali coast, is plagued by an increase in acts of piracy. since 2008, despite parliament's prioritization of the fight against piracy, piracy remains a thriving $12 billion-a-year business. the piracy trade, which is fuelled by ransom money and the diversion of international aid, must be stopped as soon as possible. it also poses a threat to regional stability and maritime transport. this resolution reaffirms our desire to improve maritime security and the coordination of military resources in this region, which is suffering from the failure of its institutions. in this sense, we have decided to extend the mandate of the atalante programme by two years. it would also be counterproductive to neglect the social aspect of our work in this region known as the 'horn of hunger', considering that these criminal behaviours are partly symptoms of poverty and violence.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on maritime piracy and the consensus it has created among the various political groups. i believe that the situation in somalia requires the european union to reaffirm its commitment to operation atalanta. i also share the rapporteur's view that land-based operations should be carried out in addition to maritime operations. i believe it is important to participate in the building of a strong somali state, capable of offering its people prospects for the future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which reiterates our support for operation atalanta, which is currently operating in the horn of africa to protect our ships from pirate attacks. the european union must show firmness so that these attacks from another time, which terrify our sailors operating in the area, cease. this operation, launched under the auspices of president sarkozy in 2008, shows the usefulness of tackling such major challenges together in external fields. it is a real success and we can also welcome the development of a genuine european strategy for the horn of africa. by acting in this area, the european union is sending a strong message to the rest of the world: any attack on a european citizen, including those beyond our borders, will not go unpunished.
in writing. once again, pirates in the horn of africa are attacking cargo ships that pass off their coast. the gulf of aden and the indian ocean are not only becoming more and more dangerous, but also more and more frequent. at the same time, more than 190 sailors are still held hostage and poverty is increasing in this part of the world. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a strengthening of military means, but also for solutions to be found to deal with the root causes of piracy. the increase in the military presence is obviously essential, but it is imperative that this be combined with an increase in humanitarian aid. the horn of africa is a region of extreme poverty, which is the main source of piracy and violence.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on maritime piracy is a clear reinforcement of the european union's integrated maritime policy. indeed, shipping is an important driver of european economic growth and beyond, with more than three quarters of world trade carried by sea. it is therefore in the interest of the european union itself that the safety factor should be integrated into the common maritime policy. the news has shown an increase in crime at sea in recent years. the greatest number of acts of piracy are found in specific areas, often concentrated in the red sea, through which many european and international transport and trade vessels pass, and most of which go unpunished. this is why this motion for a resolution is indispensable, because it re-launches the urgent call for immediate and effective measures against this impunity, and calls for the need for strategic coordination between the european union and third countries.
in writing. i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on maritime piracy, considering that it does not take into account the socioeconomic factors that explain this phenomenon and that the international action put in place is not the right response. military intervention is not a solution, and european development funds should not be used for this purpose. in this context, eu navfor atalanta must be considered a failure. i say that the improvement of the situation requires an improvement in the living conditions of the population, which is caught between civil war and ecological and economic disasters. european economic interests must not be the dominant decision-making factor. piracy is the result of poverty and the lack of cooperative policies to address it. it is therefore a complete reversal of the international policies of the rich countries that the countries of the south need. until that changes, poverty, hunger and conflict will continue to be the daily lot of the southern countries.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which recalls that the fight against piracy at sea is necessary above all for obvious reasons of the protection of human lives. we cannot justly abandon our ship owners and sailors, who work every day for trade and global growth, to their fate, nor can we abandon the local people, who live off fishing and cannot go to sea. the urgent need to mobilize a full legal and military arsenal against pirates, who are using ever heavier weapons and taking ships ever further from the coast, is clear to both local communities and the international community. this is the wish clearly expressed by our assembly and which i have emphasized in the drafting of this text. i hope that mrs ashton will now be able to urge the states to increase the military capabilities of atalanta and to fully implement the united nations convention on the law of the sea, in order to put an end to the unacceptable impunity of pirates.
mr president, the heads of state and government are meeting in informal council. it was customary for the president of the european council to report to the councils, even when they were informal. i think you will speak at 7 p.m. - i hope they will keep you for dinner so that the president of parliament can remain in the european council - but has the president of the european council been invited? why does he not come to the council to report, even though he is informal?
mr president, i will speak - and i hope you will not mind, mrs malmström - only about the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union. i fear that this agreement will be like acta. the least that can be said is that these negotiations on ceta lack transparency. these negotiations began in 2009 and we are in the 12th round of negotiations. however, we cannot say that we are very well informed about the content of these negotiations. the commission's own website is blocked in the ninth round. it contains no real information and the most relevant information comes from canada. worse still, in every resolution the views of the european parliament seem to be ignored. this is the most ambitious agreement ever negotiated with canada, or indeed with any other state in the world. it is based on a so-called negative list approach to the liberalisation of services. however, most public services do not appear to have been excluded from the negotiations. what will happen to health, education, electricity, telecommunications, drinking water and even culture if only the economic and commercial approach prevails on both sides of the atlantic? the only thing that seems to be taken into account are the interests of the large public companies which want to conquer new market shares, in defiance of the general interest, the public interest of the people. but this world view has already done enough damage to stop the race to the front. but no, it's not working. the views of the experts studying the impact of these agreements seem to be divergent, to say the least. some speak of the creation of 80 000 jobs in canada, others of the elimination of 30 to 150 000 jobs. the same type of study does not appear to have been published for the european union, and that is a pity. the impact of this agreement could also have a serious impact on local authorities and their public procurement, which for the most part seem to have been left out. could we have a precise statement of this agreement and similarly precise impact studies on its consequences? acta should be a lesson to us, but it is not, i regret.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the media agenda seems to be rediscovering the importance of having a long-term growth strategy, even though growth has been one of our political priorities for several months. the economic recovery obviously requires better use of public resources to support job-creating enterprises, the most important of which are smes. it is therefore necessary to recall that the 23 million smes in europe are the vital organs of economic development in our territories. however, they are facing structural difficulties in obtaining financing, and the current crisis has only made the situation worse. in february we were discussing here the use of regional funds to combat youth unemployment and support smes. the court of auditors' report in march confirmed what we have known for a long time: their access to financial engineering instruments is far too complicated. the commission, commissioner, had a budget of 27 billion euro for smes for this period. do we know what happened to them? the difficulties are well known. the time is not so much to discuss the definition of smes, but to determine how to better understand their differences and needs in the implementation of our policies.
mr president, that is good news. the european parliament has just adopted a text to better protect vulnerable consumers. first, there was a problem of definition: traditionally, a vulnerable consumer is someone who is elderly, someone who is disabled or someone who has difficulty asserting their rights. that is true, but the reality is that things are more complicated and that everyone can, at one time or another, be a vulnerable consumer, especially given the arrival of new and extremely aggressive commercial practices. i'm thinking particularly about all the online commerce, behavioral advertising and so on. so we needed a text, and i think that is welcome. the second point is that this text must not only affirm rights but also give the vulnerable consumer the means to exercise those rights. i believe that this is also the great step forward in this text, and we should all welcome this european step forward.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which calls for a reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation. this will lead to administrative simplification and an increase in the value of each of these coins, due to their greater scarcity.
in writing. the european union's internal security strategy provides for a series of measures to combat all forms of terrorism. this resolution, which was approved by a very large majority, was a reminder of the priorities for the present. the fight against terrorism and organised crime, including mafias, white collar crime, tax evasion and corruption, must therefore remain the key priority of this strategy! the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border controls and for the establishment of a european border control system. it is imperative to focus on economic, social and democratic support for these countries, which is the only real long-term solution essential for the proper functioning of the schengen area.
in writing. the security of the european union is an important issue which requires deepening cooperation between the member states. i believe that the creation of an area of peace and security is an essential precondition for further european integration. we need to strengthen control of our external borders, define the means of action to combat cybercrime and make concerted european action possible. it is with this in mind that i joined parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in writing. security remains one of the main concerns of european citizens. to be effective, it must be based, to some extent, on a common strategy. organized crime, cybercrime and terrorism are all facets of a multifaceted threat that this report encourages us to tackle better. it deals in particular with the question of borders. this is a crucial issue: a strong europe will only be possible if its borders are secure. this report works for better protection of europeans, while underlining our commitment to respect for fundamental rights. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. the european union has decided to adopt a common internal security strategy as from 2010 in order to improve the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption. parliament called for greater efforts to be made in the areas of intelligence and border surveillance which it considered to be priorities. the resolution also stresses the need to ensure that fundamental freedoms are not neglected in the fight against insecurity. the right to security must go hand in hand with respect for human rights.
in writing. in pursuing the construction of a european area of freedom, security and justice, the european union needs a genuine european strategy on internal security. the own-initiative report, which we adopted by a very large majority, states first of all that this strategy and any measures that are taken must absolutely meet their obligations in terms of fundamental rights and respect for the rule of law. our report then calls for this strategy to be given sufficient financial resources for the next budgetary period so that the european union can really face these challenges in a comprehensive, coordinated and united manner. finally, our strategy identifies five priority areas of action in which the european union has real added value and where we need stronger european cooperation. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague, rita borsellino, because i believe it is our responsibility to give a new dimension to the eu's internal security strategy, so that it is both more democratic and more respectful of fundamental rights. on the one hand, the european parliament, like the national parliaments, must have a say in the definition of priorities and the evaluation of policies that have been left for too long in the hands of national governments. on the other hand, i believe that respect for human rights is essential to ensure the full credibility of this policy. finally, while respect for the principle of subsidiarity in the context of a policy as sensitive as security cannot be called into question, it is essential that member states should show greater solidarity in order to deal as effectively as possible with threats to the security of their citizens, in accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality.
in writing. organized crime is a large-scale phenomenon that requires a coordinated and concrete response from the member states. organized crime networks spread across national borders and require action based on intergovernmental cooperation at the operational level. the european union's internal security strategy adopted in 2010 sets five strategic objectives to make the union's territory safer: the fight against international criminal networks, the prevention of terrorism, the securing of cyberspace, the strengthening of border management and the resilience to crises and natural or man-made disasters. it is now necessary to make a first assessment of the progress made and of what can be improved. parliament therefore wanted to express its views, stressing that the fight against terrorism and organised crime must remain the priority of this strategy, but that fundamental rights, the principles of international protection and the rule of law must be respected. parliament also stressed that security policies are a shared competence between the union and the member states, but that the principle of subsidiarity should also be respected.
in writing. this own-initiative report by my colleague rita borsellino was adopted in plenary by 503 votes in favour, 55 against and 56 abstentions. identifying the most pressing challenges for the security of the european union in the years ahead, this report supports the five strategic objectives and actions proposed by the commission in its communication. it called on the commission to make the fight against terrorism and organised crime a key priority and to step up its response to man-made and natural disasters.
in writing. crime is changing and taking on new faces. terrorism is also a real threat. cybercrime continues to grow and costs society €750 billion a year according to a recent europol report. the security of our common borders is a challenge that is still relevant today. natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent and severe. the scale of these threats requires concerted action. we must develop a clear european framework based on a well-thought-out strategy to guarantee the internal security of the european union. the complementarity between european and national actions must also be strengthened.
in writing. i note that this report calls for an evidence-based threat analysis. i join the motion. it is high time that security policy was based on real threats and not on fantasy threats. i would also point out that the text recommends that more money be allocated to the fight against corruption, as i recommended last september. i'm glad you did. i am pleased to note again that the gap between the stigmatization of petty crime and the weakness of the measures taken against environmental, economic and corporate crime is denounced here. i cannot, however, vote for a report which endorses the commission's overall security strategy. the text also lauds cooperation with nato on internal security issues. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority of the report on the eu's internal security strategy. the adoption of this report is an important step forward in the fight against terrorism and provides a range of effective tools to be used against all types of criminal acts, such as white collar crime, organised crime, mafia-type crime and money laundering. the report also calls for the creation of a common threat assessment system for member states. the report also calls for the establishment of a cybercrime centre and for the eu's internal security budget to be commensurate with the threats to the security of european citizens. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the harmonisation of european standards must also be done by law. our european model is based on values, particularly in the area of criminal law. i therefore approved the adoption of strong criteria in the implementation of the new european criminal legislation which is intended to recall fundamental principles: respect for the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity and absolute respect for the principle of the presumption of innocence. it goes without saying that european criminal law must respect the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which sets out a framework for the future development of a criminal policy for the european union. in the construction of a european area of freedom and justice, the criminal field has always been treated a little bit separately, because it is a very sensitive area, directly affecting the royal powers. it is difficult to imagine that criminal law is not part of the construction of a europe of law. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the criminal law is not only a challenge but also a necessity in the area of serious crime and crossborder crime. i am also pleased with the prospects offered by such a communitization of the criminal field in europe: first of all, 'eurocrimes'; secondly, the 'european crime network' (ecn) and thirdly, the 'european crime network' (ecn). the commission has already proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft budget for the year 2000 and that the council should be able to adopt the draft budget for the year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 149 of the treaty.
in writing. the harmonisation of criminal law remains a sensitive issue. while the lisbon treaty has made this a community matter, in that it allows the eu to use it to strengthen the implementation of its policies, criminal law remains at the heart of national sovereignty and the diversity of national legislation does not make the task easy. however, a step in this direction is needed to address the concerns of european citizens who do not want offenders to hide behind borders or exploit differences in national legal systems. we must define minimum rules at european level on offences, jurisdiction and sanctions, the main aim being to promote the application of the principle of mutual recognition in practice. finally, we must prevent the exploitation of criminal law, which would make it appear that the introduction of new rules would make it possible to combat crime. it would be a waste of time to ignore that other tools exist and need to be implemented.
in writing. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the pillar structure was abandoned and the basis for the development of a criminal law that is an integral part of european union law was laid. however, it must be noted that the european union has not created a separate area for criminal law provisions. these are not only to be found in instruments relating to justice but also in those relating to internal affairs. this own-initiative report calls on the commission to ensure a high-quality and coherent european approach to criminal law. with this in mind, the commission has set up an inter-service coordination group on criminal law. in his report, cornelis de jong calls for the appointment of a commissioner responsible for criminal law matters. the report also stresses the importance of mutual recognition, harmonisation of protection standards and respect for the principle of presumption of innocence. it also stressed that the key areas of criminal law should remain the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. the lisbon treaty, by integrating criminal law into eu law, is leading us to react. we now need to strengthen existing cooperation in criminal law and rethink our national and european approaches. greater coordination is needed between the european institutions in this area. it is also necessary to develop mutual recognition while preserving key principles of criminal law such as the presumption of innocence.
the protection of vulnerable consumers is a priority and we have therefore called for a genuine european strategy in this area! the rights of vulnerable consumers must be strengthened as much as possible. european legislation, through the decisions of the court of justice of the european union, protects european citizens by dealing with cases on a case-by-case basis. today, therefore, i am in favour of a comprehensive strategy to avoid unfair trading practices in the future. the report takes a sectoral approach to cover the diversity of forms of vulnerability. for example, the lack of information on claims and compensation systems should no longer penalise us!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs maría irigoyen pérez on the strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. unfair commercial practices, misleading advertising and lack of information about certain products are hitting the most vulnerable consumers hardest. our priority is to prevent the exploitation of vulnerable consumers at all costs. in order to better integrate this category of consumers into the single market, the causes should be addressed and their protection improved. in this sense, certain sectors such as food, transport, internet, liberalised markets, justice and digitalisation of services need to be subject to enhanced scrutiny in order to facilitate consumer empowerment. to this end, stricter rules on advertising to children should be developed rapidly, adaptation to the digitalisation of services for the elderly should be made pedagogical and information for the visually impaired should be improved.
in writing. because consumers are easily exposed to vulnerable situations, the european legislator must take specific protective measures. i therefore welcome the adoption of the irigoyen pérez report. i am joining this initiative which aims to strengthen consumer rights and to make consumers more aware of the risks they face. i note that with the proliferation of consumer-oriented content on the web, we need to be more vigilant. i think the most important thing now is to ensure that these new protective measures are implemented uniformly in all the member states.
in writing. the european project has created a single market: a common space for buying, selling and moving. consumers are therefore essential actors. as consumers, we can all find ourselves in a vulnerable situation at some point. there is no one, but vulnerable consumers. this report offers a flexible approach to protect all of them. it calls in particular for children and young people to be protected from advertising for foods that are too fatty, too salty or too sweet. the report also raises concerns about access to information and complaint procedures for travellers. these are very concrete recommendations, useful to the citizens of europe, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for a strategy to protect vulnerable consumers. there may be several factors determining consumer vulnerability, such as age, disability, but also poor command of new technologies, which can make them vulnerable to marketing pressures, misleading advertising, or abusive contractual clauses. european consumer rights must be adapted to the particular situations.
in writing. meps approved on tuesday, 22 may, by a near unanimous vote, the report on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers. this report posits that all consumers are likely to become vulnerable consumers in their lifetime. the causes may be endogenous (reduced physical or mental capacity such as children, the elderly or disabled) or exogenous (education, etc.). we must therefore ensure that these populations are well protected but also empowered. the european parliament intends to contribute to the european commission's reflection on this subject by presenting this report. it should be noted that on the same day of this adoption, the commission published its strategy for strengthening consumer confidence, the european consumer agenda.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the commission's thinking on the protection of vulnerable consumers, in particular with a view to the publication of the consumer agenda, which aims to define the main priorities and future actions of the commission in the field of consumer policy. as a fictitious rapporteur on this dossier, i argued for several important points, including a clarification of the definition of vulnerable consumers (extending beyond the conventional understanding of physical or mental disability to include the notion of situational vulnerability), the strengthening of the european strategy through both a development of the legal corpus and effective respect for rights and consumer empowerment (access to information, consumer education), the consideration of the vulnerability generated by the development of new practices related to ict (behavioural advertising, for example), and the need to empower companies in this area and to recognise the initiatives that they develop in the field of self-regulation.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by my colleague maría irigoyen pérez on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. the european parliament is thus showing its determination to prevent consumer vulnerability and to protect vulnerable consumers. every european citizen must be aware that anyone can become a vulnerable consumer during his or her lifetime (travel to a foreign country, illness, old age, use of new commercial media, etc.). i also welcome the fact that the current definition of the vulnerable consumer is maintained. the amendment of this concept would have entailed risks for consumer protection. it is essential that such a concept should remain balanced, neither too vague nor too precise, so that it can cover all situations of consumer vulnerability.
in writing. the report aims to protect 'vulnerable consumers'. he tries to define which category of people is concerned, but has to make it clear, over and over again, that everyone is concerned. from this point onwards, it is only a matter of admitting that 'consumers' are persons and that their interests are not guaranteed by free and undistorted competition. this text stubbornly refuses to cross it. it claims that competition "benefits consumers if they are properly informed". vulnerability is the result of a simple lack of information. while there is a need to better regulate people's information about the products and services they use, to make lack of information the main cause of vulnerability is a deception. the millions of people who have been plunged into precariousness by austerity policies and deregulation of the labour market are made vulnerable. they cannot buy quality products and services, whether they are informed or not. this text, full of good intentions, is an indecent social blindness.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 'strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers'. the report highlights the diversity of forms of vulnerability linked to physical or mental disability, but also takes into account disability linked to lack of knowledge of the language, lack of information or simply the need to use new technologies with which the consumer is not familiar. the european union must guarantee high standards of protection for all consumers by introducing measures to protect their interests against unfair commercial practices, misleading advertising and abusive contractual clauses. as a member of the board of the european consumer centre, i fully supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report concerns the technical conditions for the issue of euro coins. the commission is also asked to assess whether it is appropriate to put into circulation euro 1 and euro 2 banknotes. i supported it, waiting to read the conclusions of this study.
in writing. the objective of this regulation is to lay down the rules governing the issuance of euro coins intended for circulation, including commemorative coins, the issuance of euro collector coins and, finally, the consultation prior to the destruction of valid euro coins intended for circulation. i supported my colleague mr martin's report in the vote in plenary.
in writing. the european internal market offers citizens and businesses benefits on a daily basis. it is therefore important to ensure that european legislation is properly transposed in our member states. the internal market scoreboard is one of the tools encouraging member states to improve the quality and timeliness of transposition of internal market directives. another instrument, the european commission's solvit network, provides a useful and effective means for states to solve problems caused by poor application of single market rules. i therefore supported the position of the rapporteur, mr simon busuttil, and voted in favour of merging these two instruments, which is necessary for the completion of the single market.
in writing. i voted for the busuttil report on improving the functioning of the single market. the measures contained in this report are beneficial to both european businesses and citizens. i welcome the idea of strengthening the regulatory framework and developing a coordinated approach to ensure clarity and efficiency. i also welcome the rapporteur's desire to improve the efficiency and transparency of infringement procedures.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague simon busuttil was adopted by 607 votes in favour, and i welcome that. it aims to promote a coordinated and cooperative approach to improving the functioning of the single market through better transposition and enforcement of single market rules.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague simon busuttil on the internal market scoreboard. in this text, the european parliament has expressed its willingness to promote a coordinated and cooperative approach to improve the functioning of the single market through better transposition and application of the single market rules. all instruments to promote timely transposition and satisfactory implementation must be used with infringement procedures, as transposals must benefit european businesses and citizens through a strong internal market. i also welcome the establishment of an accelerated infringement procedure in the event of a member state failing to transpose a directive and the study for the creation, within the european commission, of an independent body to prosecute cases of infringement of internal market rules.
in writing. this report calls for the concordance tables to be made public. that's his only interest. the text also denounces the delays in the implementation of the directives on the internal market of the union. most of them are in line with the dogma of free and undistorted competition. i therefore welcome these delays. the commission is also proposing to impose immediate sanctions on those who break the internal market rules and calls on the member states to commit themselves to not exceeding a 0,5% deficit in transposing european directives and a 0,5% deficit in complying with them. this report is symptomatic of the austerity drive in the union which i am opposing. i vote against it.
in writing. ensuring the optimal functioning of the single market is essential to get europe back on the path to growth. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the internal market scoreboard is extremely useful in this respect, since it allows a periodic review of the functioning of the internal market. in 2007, the heads of state or government set themselves the target of a transposition deficit of no more than 1%. the current deficit is 1.2%, while in recent months seven member states have seen their delays in transposing eu directives increase. i therefore support this report, which calls in particular on the member states to reduce transposition deficits to 0.5%, calls on the commission to ensure that infringements are punished swiftly and calls for the establishment of an accelerated infringement procedure. the text also stresses the importance of strengthening the services offered to citizens and businesses to help them solve the problems they encounter in applying european law. i think that is crucial.
in writing. as president of the women at the centre association, i have long advocated for real equality between men and women. as such, while turkey eventually wants to join the european union, it seems to me essential that respect for women's rights be included in the conditions of accession. this report is a very precise analysis of the current situation, of the place of women in civil society, on the labour market, and of their political participation. for example, the report strongly advocates the adoption of a new law on political parties and elections, which could establish a system of binding quotas to ensure the fair representation of women on electoral lists, the rapporteur stressed. a change of mind is necessary !
in writing. the situation of women in turkey remains difficult, as in some other countries of the world. they face discrimination and violence on a daily basis, and violence has increased alarmingly in recent times, despite the legislation in force. according to the turkish statistical institute, 39% of turkish women have experienced physical violence at some point in their lives and two to three women are killed by their husbands every day. as in other countries concerned, it is the responsibility of the authorities to react and adopt binding and effective measures to prevent such acts of violence, to punish the perpetrators and to protect the victims. achieving gender equality, changing mentalities, empowering turkish women and their inclusion in the social, economic and political life of their country will inevitably come through education. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which takes stock of the situation of turkish women and sends a message to turkey, inviting it, as a candidate country, to make women's rights a priority and to redouble its efforts to adopt far-reaching reforms and guarantee respect for fundamental rights in order to meet the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. the situation of women in turkey remains, in some respects, alarming. we condemn, by a majority vote, violence against women, forced marriages and honour killings. the right of women in turkey should therefore be actively improved in order to make it compatible with community law. we want to send a strong signal to the turkish political authorities to implement as soon as possible policies to raise public awareness and to encourage women's political participation. in this connection, the commission suggests the adoption of a system of compulsory quotas for electoral lists. in a social context marked by a high rate of illiteracy and a low level of education, this positive discrimination mechanism would allow women to set themselves up as models in order to normalize their role in society. at present, only 14% of the turkish parliament is made up of women. parliament therefore called on the turkish authorities to set an example in promoting the role of women and the practice of parity.
in writing. i support the bozkurt report on the situation of women in turkey. i note that turkish women face many difficulties both in the education system, the labour market and the family. i believe that the situation of women in turkey can be improved if the country transposes the community acquis in this area. the turkish society must also respect all its minorities. the recent sentence of ten years in prison for the turkish mp leyla zana, who won the sakharov prize, shows that we still have a long way to go.
in writing. the report by mrs bozkurt is very enlightening. in paragraph 58 it is admitted that turkey still does not meet the copenhagen criteria, criteria which we have been told repeatedly that they are the indispensable precondition for any opening of accession negotiations with any country! after seven years, it was time to take care of it! as for the status of women in turkey, whether the report is right or not, there is a lot of arrogance and hypocrisy on our part. because humiliating demands are constantly being made on turkey, as if accession would be no problem once these demands are met. we can't change people's minds with laws. we cannot turn turks into perfect little atheistic, individualistic and materialistic westerners by the magic of the texts. and to want to do so is to show a sovereign contempt for foreign cultures, traditions and civilizations. that's the contradiction in the prevailing thinking here!
in writing. this report advocates the prevention and punishment of violence against women and in particular the criminalisation of forced marriages and marital rape in turkey. it also called on the government to allocate the necessary human and financial resources. i strongly support these proposals, as well as the demand to ensure the removal of abusive spouses and to guarantee victims real access to courts and protection mechanisms. i still support the demand for full guarantees of equal rights in the labour market and in politics. i am, however, strongly opposed to the proposal to promote gendered training and to the full application of the liberalisation measures contained in the eec-turkey association agreement. i therefore abstain and point out that the exercise of reporting on women's rights should be applied to all the candidate countries as well as to all the member states.
in writing. the report on the situation of women in turkey by 2020 describes the place and role of women in turkish society. it mentions a number of areas where the position of women is still very uncertain. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication network (eicn), which will be used to develop and disseminate information on the european union's policies and actions. in addition, a special effort must be made by the turkish authorities to improve the participation of women in the labour market, in political life and in education. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report. finally, i would like to point out that i voted in favour of paragraph 8 on the recognition of the rights of lgbt people in public life.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative, established by the treaty of lisbon, entered into force on 1 april. as i said in march, it will now enable you to take part in the drafting of european legislation. the procedure is simple and it is important that you learn this mechanism. the report i approved last week states, for example, that when the european commission has published a citizens' initiative in the register, the president of parliament must instruct the relevant parliamentary committee to organise a public hearing in parliament within three months. to help raise awareness of the citizens' initiative procedure, the european parliament's communication services have prepared a multimedia app detailing the steps to be followed in a clear and attractive way. here is the link to the multimedia app, so make europe your own! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. i welcome the launch of the citizens' initiatives, which represent a step forward in the democratization of the union. several initiatives have already been launched, including the one aimed at making water a genuine public good and the one aimed at eliminating roaming in europe. the successful initiatives will be the subject of a public hearing in the european parliament. it seemed to me appropriate that these hearings should be organised by the committee responsible for the subject. the ice is different from the complaints dealt with in the committee on petitions. they are intended to alert the institutions to an important matter requiring european legislation. this does not, of course, prevent the committee on petitions from being involved in the organisation of these hearings, the aim being to attract as much attention as possible to the european agenda. i will therefore be following closely the development of the first initiatives launched to ensure that the commitments made by the union, both in the treaties and in speeches, are translated into action.
in writing. this report from the committee on constitutional affairs sets out the conditions under which the public hearings that parliament and the european commission will hold with the organisers of european citizens' initiatives that have gathered at least one million signatures from citizens from at least one quarter of the eu member states will be organised. the committee on petitions, of which i am a member, will organise the hearings, taking into account the committees responsible for the subject of the initiative. the committee on petitions, the commission closest to the citizen, has a long-standing expertise in receiving citizens' complaints, which legitimises its role in the organisation of the ecis. the eic is a natural extension of the work of the committee on petitions. in addition, entrusting the management of practical arrangements to this committee contributes to a better readability of the institution towards european citizens. the report also stresses the importance of strengthening the rules on transparency in the preparation of initiatives and the necessary simplification of procedures. a practical guide will be drawn up to inform the citizen as much as possible of the arrangements for the scheme.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment to the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. following the entry into force of regulation (eu) no 211/2011, new provisions became urgently necessary. i am pleased that this report has been adopted, which clarifies and facilitates the conduct of the public hearings. i believe that this report allows for greater consideration of the citizens' initiative. i am also pleased that the epp group's amendments were adopted in the plenary vote.
in writing. the european parliament is the voice of the citizens in the european union. the lisbon treaty takes us one step further by allowing citizens to participate directly in decision-making. the symbol of this participation is the european citizens' initiative. i voted in favour of this report because it will enable parliament to bring all its experience and expertise to bear in ensuring that the voice of the citizens is heard loud and clear.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, zita gurmai, in order to promote this major step forward of the citizens' initiative for european democracy, even through the internal rules of the european parliament. although the commission still retains its right of initiative, this is a new legislative power which european citizens have already begun to use since 1 april, and we should welcome this. it will therefore be for the european parliament to organise the hearing of the persons behind the initiatives which have been selected, in order to increase their chances of eventually reaching a legislative proposal from the commission. parliamentarians must therefore be able to engage directly with those citizens who have chosen to embark on an adventure which, if it comes to an end, will enable europeans to make their voices heard as directly as possible, and i welcome this.
in writing. on tuesday 22 may, parliament voted on the conditions for organising the public hearings to be held before parliament and the european commission by the organisers of the european citizens' initiatives which have collected more than one million signatures. the implementation of this instrument of participatory democracy, unique in the world, on a transnational scale is continuing and i welcome this. it came into force on 1 april last. i would remind you that a european citizens' committee of at least seven citizens residing in at least seven different member states can now, after collecting more than one million signatures, call upon the european commission to present a legislative initiative in an area within its competence and which respects the fundamental values of the union. the european commission has already declared half a dozen citizens' initiatives admissible.
in writing. the aim of this own-initiative report is to establish clear rules for the implementation of public hearings on citizens' initiatives. these hearings will be organised by the competent parliamentary committees of the european parliament. the report also recommends that the committee on petitions (peti) be involved in the holding of these hearings.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative is a major and innovative democratic tool. in order for this instrument to make sense and to really allow european citizens to shape and participate in the european public debate, the conditions for its implementation are crucial. an amendment to the european parliament's rules of procedure was necessary to allow for the organisation of public hearings to present citizens' initiatives. the european parliament is rightly the most appropriate forum for this democratic exercise. the committee responsible shall organise the public hearing, depending on the themes of the initiative. it is also important that the committee on petitions be involved in the public hearings, because of its expertise and the complementarity of its activities with the citizens' initiative projects.
in writing. the citizens' initiative is a sham, designed to cover up the lack of democratic processes organised by the lisbon treaty. it asks citizens to mobilize incredible energy for a potentially zero result. this amendment to the european parliament's rules of procedure provides a framework for the organisation of the public hearings planned for the organisers of initiatives which have obtained the required one million signatures in at least one quarter of the 27 member states and in compliance with the quotas imposed by each country. it adds contempt to the difficulty of achieving this result. he proposed that parliament itself should decide which of the representatives of the initiative it would like to hear. he proposes that joint hearings be held for initiatives concerning 'similar objects'! and this without the need for prior approval from the organisers of the initiatives! the commission has also decided to continue the work on the new programme. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the european union has long been criticised for its democratic deficit and its possible disconnection from the real concerns of european citizens. as political leaders, we must constantly fill in these gaps. one instrument that can help to do this is the citizens' initiative, which is becoming a powerful tool for european citizens, who can thus have a real influence on the agenda of the union's legislative initiatives. article 11 of the citizens' initiative regulation provides that our assembly has the power to hear the authors of each citizens' initiative in public. this is an important way for us, as representatives of the interests of the citizens, to support them in their efforts. in this connection, we are trying to adapt our rules as much as possible so that these public hearings can be carried out successfully. i therefore voted in favour of it and supported the principle of our president appointing the committee responsible for organising the public hearing, and also including the committee on petitions. i hope that the mechanism we have thus envisaged will contribute to the success of interesting citizens' initiatives.
mr president, i shall briefly outline three ideas. firstly, i hear some people talking about financial stability and fiscal consolidation, and others about growth, pitting the two against each other. in truth, we obviously need both. we need fiscal stability, we need to get back to balance, and we need to support growth. i think that is a matter of common sense. to support growth, we must also make structural reforms, regain competitiveness and at the same time invest in our future and provide prospects for the future of our children. unfortunately, the member states are deeply in debt, and it is therefore up to the european union to invest for the future. that is why i am in favour of a massive increase, if possible, in the capital of the eib, and of eurobonds, but in a substantial amount, not the amount announced by the commission. why not agree to a mobilisation of european savings for future projects? i think that's a track that really should be opened up. yes to a financial transaction tax so that the european union finally has its own resources. and finally, as guy verhofstadt said, to give a view of the future also means thinking about how, in the end, to bring down interest rates. why not a new role for the ecb or a mutualisation of some of our debts?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since we must speak without taboos and put everything on the table at this european council, it seems to me that the state of the euro zone requires us to think in three stages: the short term is the urgency of the situation in greece, the medium term is the growth strategy, and the long term is our vision of the euro zone and of our 'living together'. in the short term, for greece, let us know that all those who imagined that a greek exit from the euro zone could happen smoothly are not facing the reality, then, that no chinese wall could be put in place and does not exist today, in case greece leaves the euro zone. but let us also recognize that nothing will be resolved in the greek situation if we continue to apply the troika's mandate, as the greeks have now refused to do. and if we do not think of the general framework for a recovery of economic activity, a return to hope, dialogue and solidarity at european level, nothing will be possible, neither in greece nor at european level. commissioner, the election of françois hollande, as you know, gives you a rare window of opportunity to put these questions in other circumstances. i do not agree with mr ferber that there is only one model in europe, that of germany. we are a union in diversity. so seize this window of opportunity to finally bring europe the solutions it needs. these solutions require a growth strategy, but not just any strategy. it must not take account only of the internal market, which would be negative integration. these solutions must also include a real industrial policy, which will enable us to make the investments we need to make our europe a sustainable europe, creating jobs, where the main waste will not be the generation that is leaving the labour market. then, commissioner, you must recognize that the way in which pressure is being put on greece today to rebuild its administration, when nothing is being done to help it in its negotiations with switzerland, to stop the tax evasion of the most privileged in that country, is a source of injustice which neither the greeks, nor the europeans, nor the french, nor the british, nor the germans should accept. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question for the council mr president, i would like to ask my colleague mrs berès whether she agrees that the european central bank can be a lender of last resort to the states.
answer is "blue cardboard". as we have said, we believe that the financing conditions for sovereign debts must be reviewed. this is one of the hypotheses on the table, but i do not foresee a discussion that should be opened and that should make it possible to alleviate the financing of sovereign debt in a country like greece and beyond.
answer is "blue cardboard". i believe, mr president, that the idea of respecting those who show solidarity is the basis of all our living together at european level. i also believe that, as far as your country is concerned, important efforts have been made which have enabled you to redress the difficult situation which was yours, but that the contribution of a country like ireland to what the euro area is is a question on which many things will also have to be put on the table. i should like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the way in which the phenomena of rising prices or the building of bubbles may or may not have been observed in recent years. and i can see that in your country, a housing bubble may have been created without being stopped in time. this is the kind of situation we must prevent.
mr president, commissioners, minister, i will never get used to european councils being prepared by the general affairs council, and i regret that mr van rompuy does not report to us on this meeting, even though it is informal. the problem is not the responsibility of the rotating presidency, mr minister. since the presidency has been stable, we in the european parliament have no contact with the heads of state or government. we are faced with a problem which is the responsibility of the european council and the heads of state or government. i regret that we do not have relations with mr van rompuy because the truth is that the council meeting tomorrow and the one at the end of june are intended to close the european semester. this is not the real european council on growth that we in the epp have been calling for since december last year. a few thoughts: first, we no longer hear the zero growth advocates. that's good news. secondly, i reiterate the idea that we should look at the efficiency of public spending. i propose an independent audit, which could be conducted by the european court of auditors and the 27 national auditors, to see where we could save money: 27 armies, no more enemies; research programmes funded 15 times without coordination; hundreds of diplomatic buildings without sharing the costs. the second point to consider is competitiveness. it's a word that's underused. firstly, the competitiveness of our companies (flexibility, safety, labour costs) and it is not public spending and the increase in taxes proposed by mr hollande that will solve the competitiveness problems we are facing in europe and france. secondly, the competitiveness of the continent. yes, we need a big infrastructure plan for roads, digital, space and university. finally, for the states in difficulty, i suggest that we might consider, in the continuation of jean-paul gauzès' proposals, the establishment of debt-relief structures, beyond the ratios, with a banking licence, that is to say access to the ecb's treasury for the recovery of the states. but each state has to pay its debts. we shall never find a political majority for the people of one state to pay the debts of another! every state has to pay its debts. finally, the state of the union address, mr president, is largely inadequate. i propose that in the autumn we hold a european union congress, bringing together the heads of state and government, the european commission, the european parliament and the national parliaments, to ensure that the continent is run in the interests of the european peoples. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr audy, do you include tax cuts in the audit of public finances you propose?
answer is "blue cardboard". you are talking, my dear colleague, about tax increases, so they are increases. i'm interested in public expenditure. the experts tell us that, when it comes to public spending, at each of the three levels, that is europe, nation, region, including our local governments, if we were to look at our public spending, without touching sovereignty, just looking at how we can better pool our spending, we could make billions, billions, billions of savings, which we could allocate to debt relief and investment. i'm not talking about taxes; i'm talking about the economy on public spending.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, recent developments in certain european countries concerning restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly based on a misconception of homosexuality are very worrying. homophobia continues to manifest itself in the member states and in third countries in various forms, such as violent public speeches, and sometimes even murder. laws have recently been introduced or passed against homosexual propaganda. our institution cannot be indifferent to such situations. we must call on the relevant authorities in these countries - russia, ukraine, moldova, lithuania, latvia and hungary - to ensure respect for the principle of non-discrimination and to reconsider these laws in the light of international human rights law and their commitments. the commission, the council and the eeas should take note of these prohibitions and take appropriate action in the context of internal affairs, bilateral dialogue and the european neighbourhood policy. it is truly regrettable that even in the european union, the fundamental rights of lgbt people are still not fully respected. we can only condemn in the strongest terms any discrimination, incitement to hatred or violence on the basis of sexual orientation. furthermore, homosexual children need to have access to positive and reassuring information about their sexuality. these laws make access to such information difficult and illegal, which is catastrophic for the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we celebrated the seventh consecutive international day against homophobia, but can we really say today that things are getting better? for while we can rejoice at the decriminalisation of homosexuality, the news shows us that we must continue to fight with the utmost firmness against the violence and discrimination that lgbt people are victims of on a daily basis. in too many countries around the world, national and regional governments enact laws that criminalize what they call propaganda in favor of homosexuality. in too many countries around the world, living one's homosexuality or expressing oneself in a gender other than the one recognized at birth can be a life-threatening situation. this in itself is a perfect justification for paying particular attention to these situations in order to open up access to international protection for those concerned. unfortunately, in our countries we see that the march towards equality is still long and must continue, because lgbt people are still, too often, the target of unacceptable stigmatization and sometimes violence. suicide cases among lgbt youth are also warning signs that we urgently need to act. to put an end to this discrimination, there are guidelines to be followed. they could be divided into three areas: first, and this is the basis, respect education through school programmes that aim to combat prejudice, representation, sexist and homophobic stereotypes, from an early age; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the member states, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. finally, homophobic and transphobic insults could be punished by law, as well as racist insults.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the measures adopted by iccat, in particular a reduction in the tac for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean from 13 500 tonnes to 12 900 tonnes, a strengthening of controls, particularly with regard to the transfer of tuna to cages and the extension of the closure period for purse seine fishing in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i would add that tuna fishing is the most heavily regulated fishery in the european union and probably one of the most heavily regulated fisheries in the world. i would therefore like to congratulate our colleague raül romeva i rueda on his report. i take this opportunity to give an update on the reform of the common fisheries policy which is being drawn up. conservation of resources is obviously essential to the success of this reform, and the members of the committee on fisheries are well aware of this. some people today want to replace this committee with propaganda campaigns whose focus will deceive no one. please let the members of this committee work calmly so that we can present a coherent and realistic proposal to all members. it is very important, in particular, to generalize the multiannual long-term management plans for fisheries and to have as an objective maximum sustainable yield. i would like to reiterate my formal opposition to transferable fishing concessions which would kill our fishing model. i take advantage of your presence, madam commissioner, to tell you that france did not wait for the election of françois hollande to be a country of justice, contrary to your assertions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the title of my report, 'the european union and china, unequal trade', expresses exactly the challenge we are facing today, when china is set to become the world's leading power before the turn of the century. relations between china and europe are unbalanced. i remind you that our trade deficit with china has more than tripled in ten years. this is a challenge to us, because the european economy is losing momentum and its growth setbacks are causing fears that it will no longer be able to face international competition with the confidence and determination of yesterday. the framework for our future is in upheaval. it is up to us to redefine it, not by turning inward, which would be nothing more than a flight forward towards decline, but by building with china a new partnership whose lines will ultimately be simple to define: reciprocity of rules, balance of trade and transparency of trade relations. i say this with all the greater conviction that in an open global economy, china needs europe, as europe needs china. i say this with all the more certainty because i believe that the crisis we are experiencing is a good time to deepen our relations on the basis of a more balanced partnership. this report by the committee on international trade, thanks in particular to the work of the fictitious rapporteurs and the opinion rapporteurs, whom i would like to commend, sets the framework and defines the requirements. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the aim is to temper the chinese system of joint ventures and the transfer of strategic technologies, and to promote customs cooperation between the european union and china in order to combat counterfeiting. the aim is to encourage the eu to use trade defence instruments more frequently, where necessary, and to defend european industrial interests more effectively by revising the directive on intellectual property rights. the aim is to ensure that all chinese products in circulation in the single market are in full compliance with european standards. the commission is invited to negotiate an ambitious and balanced investment agreement between the eu and china, guaranteeing transparency. this is to level the monetary competition with a coordinated system to identify sovereign debt holders and encourage china to let the yuan be valued. it also calls for action to reform the organisation of international trade in the long term, including social, health and environmental standards. finally, i would like to stress one last essential point. all of this would be in vain if the european union refused to implement a concerted policy of production and reindustrialisation, and a research and innovation policy that is responsive to the new global challenges. and i would also like to add a demand, an absolute demand, for better coordination between the member states so that each other's bilateral relations with china do not weaken the union's position. europe needs to speak with one voice and to adopt and defend a single policy on this issue of relations with china, as on so many others, but especially on this one. ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this report we will be giving the commission and the council a coherent road map to ensure that our relations with china are rebalanced and that the deep concerns of european citizens are addressed in concrete terms.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this was indeed a very important presentation that ms de sarnez has given us and i know also that four parliament committees have contributed to this important work – important because china is a very topical issue and essential for our foreign trade interests. parliament’s views on these links are obviously a crucial part of our platform in the dialogue with china. i can agree with many of the specific findings in the report. china is increasingly driving global growth at a difficult time for the international economy, and it is our fastest growing export market. but at the same time the list of issues we need to address with china grows longer, and the report is right in suggesting that there is a general feeling in europe that economic openness in china is not improving enough. this highlights some of our concerns with china. let me go through some of these. it is essential for eu interests to have improved intellectual property rights enforcement in china. european companies excel in cutting-edge technologies and this is part of our competitive advantage. it is a fact that ipr infringements undermine not only european investment and engagement in china but just as much china’s ambition to develop its economy. we should therefore redouble our efforts on ipr and we will use this report as a useful guide in addressing this with china. i also agree with the report that we should aim for an ambitious and balanced investment agreement with china. important sectors in china remain restricted for foreign investment and i believe that europe’s open investment regime remains our strongest argument for others to grant us similar access. at the eu-china summit in february we agreed to move towards bilateral investment negotiations. market access in china will be part of this, as will the way our investments are treated in china. the report also states that we need to strengthen transparency regarding foreign direct investment in europe. i agree with this in principle, but also we need to be careful not to create new investment barriers at a time when europe needs to remain attractive to maintain growth and jobs. the report’s view on access to the public procurement market in china underlines why the commission is pushing for china to accede to the wto government procurement agreement. limited and unbalanced access to many procurement markets globally is also why the commission has proposed an external procurement instrument which aims at ensuring better reciprocity in the way our companies can get access to foreign markets, compared with the open access they enjoy in the eu. with such an instrument we can have a better platform for addressing procurement concerns with china. as the report rightly notes, it is crucial for european businesses that we vigilantly defend our interests whenever trade rules are not respected. we are doing this with anti-dumping and anti-subsidy instruments and we have resorted to the wto when that was necessary, for example to address restrictions on access to raw materials and rare earths. on the question of whether china can obtain market economy status, i can only insist that this depends mainly on china itself, as it has to meet a number of objective criteria. finally, i think it is important that the report also points to a path forward. even if our long-term vision for a strategic partnership with china can come under pressure from day-to-day issues, it is important that we keep in mind the vast potential for european businesses in china, and this raises the question of how we in europe engage in china and with china. it is essential that the commission, parliament, the member states, and the eu actors pass a coherent message to our respective chinese counterparts. only in this way will the eu be able to deal effectively with the different aspects of our trade relations with china and only in this way will we progress towards a stronger, deeper, and more balanced relationship with maximum mutual benefits for both sides.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, commissioner, mrs de sarnez, the weakness of respect for social, environmental and human rights standards is undoubtedly also a factor in the imbalances between the european union and china. but we also have to sweep our front door. there would not be such an imbalance with china, such a lack of coherence in the european approach, if there were a common european position vis-à-vis china. china has imposed plurilateral relations on europe, and there is a strong responsibility on the part of the member states for the fact that we have such an imbalance with china. of course, all chinese products entering the european market must meet the internal standards. it's the law. so, as long as the european union is a sincere player in the multilateral negotiations aimed at obtaining binding standards on social and environmental issues, and countries like china refuse to have a framework of binding international standards, we believe that europe is entitled to introduce standards on these international issues as well, when entering the european market. this may include, for example, freedom of association. could europe not legitimately decide that at such a time all products entering the european market must come from countries which respect freedom of association? the protection of workers is guaranteed in our country, and it must be guaranteed in those countries too. and then there is a subject that is essential at the moment, namely the question of the photovoltaic industry. the european union has always been at the forefront of renewable energy. we are trying in europe to have both renewable energy targets and, so far, a renewable energy industry. china has launched a price war on renewable energy, particularly photovoltaics. it has, with the help of subsidies, developed overcapacity which is killing the european photovoltaic industry. this is a crucial point, a crucial moment for europe. are we, like the united states, protecting our photovoltaic industry to promote our renewable energy goals, or not? thousands of jobs are being lost at the moment, which is why we are asking the european commission to come back to the european parliament with an analysis of china's strategy on the photovoltaic market and to say whether the american response is a good response. we clearly want to be part of that logic. we cannot today defend renewable energy objectives and not defend a european renewable energy industry.
mr president, as every year, this parliament is debating trade relations with china and, as every year, the report is overwhelming. china is not living up to its international commitments, not this year, not last year. it is dumping on a large scale in all areas, it is making a mockery of intellectual property as its first dollar, it is appropriating the raw materials of developing countries, it is massively subsidizing its enterprises and its exports. the result of the lack of firmness in dealing with such behaviour is the deindustrialisation of europe, the relocations, the loss of millions of jobs, the flooding of our markets with products of poor quality. china should not have entered the wto, and the european commission seems more concerned with the application of the dogmas of free trade than with full employment for europeans. we will never be competitive against a country where most workers earn less than 70 euros a month. we will never be winners if years of effort to increase the competitiveness of our companies are ruined in a few hours by the speculative rise of the reichsmark, sorry about the euro! i am sorry for mrs de sarnez, but everything she proposes - often emergency measures and common sense - will only be a pity. as long as we remain in a globalised, financialised, ultra-liberal system, we can only re-industrialise our countries without a reasonable and intelligent protection of our economies, by firmly promoting and applying national and european preference and by requiring, for all our imports, compliance with the social and environmental standards we impose on our own producers.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to answer a couple of questions that have been raised in this very interesting debate on a most interesting report. with regard to solar panels, we have already had contacts with the industry on this and when we receive a justified complaint – and we have not yet received one – we will consider appropriate action. secondly, several members of parliament have raised the issue of a level playing field. we all agree that there should be a level playing field, but the question is how do you get there? is it by taking action when appropriate but also keeping your own markets open, or is it by closing your own markets? and what would be the result of these differing strategies? i am very clearly in favour of having open markets, but also being tough when necessary. that leads me to the market economy status. in fact, when you look at the conclusions of the latest eu-china summit you will see there is a very clear link made between market economy status and export credits. what we are in effect saying is that we should make progress on both issues and china will have to move forward on export credits. they have promised that they will reach a multilateral agreement by 2014. i am greatly looking forward that. qualifying for market economy status is a matter of meeting criteria, and if we want to be serious with this we have to recognise they have not yet met these criteria. market economy status is not something that you can grant all of a sudden; this is a matter entailing a codecision procedure in which the european parliament will also have its say if a conclusion is ever reached. the investment agreement was also discussed at the latest summit, and we – china and ourselves – agreed to open negotiations. for the first time ever, china has recognised that negotiations should concern not only investment protection, but also market access. we at the european commission are preparing negotiating directives, and we hope and expect that the chinese will do the same when approaching their state council. one last point on trade. because people always focus on imports coming from china, i would like to make two remarks. first there are also a lot of exports going to china; china is a very important market for us. second, we should not forget that a large part of these imports are beneficial for our own economy because they concern products that we then re-export. we therefore have to import a lot to re-export afterwards, and a big part of these semi-finished products come from china. in summary: a very interesting report; a very fruitful debate; a very complicated country but also with a lot of prospects.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, thank you to all those who have spoken in this debate. in the end, it was through them that we heard the concerns of our fellow europeans. the considerable weight of china in the world economy, its supply of cheap labour, which seems inexhaustible, its irresistible attraction for investors, the risk of relocating production, all this rightly worries europeans. it is absolutely essential that we take this into account here in parliament. it is therefore urgent to respond, not by closing the frontiers, of course, but by weighing the weight of what we are, that is to say, the world's leading economic power, engaging in a dialogue with china on an equal footing, not with frivolity, but with firmness and certainty, to find the way to balance, to find the means of reciprocity and the conditions for fair competition. we need a new partnership with china that will allow for a return to growth in europe tomorrow and, by extension, for economic development in china, hopefully contributing to the advancement of freedoms in china. so we have to be very demanding with china. we must speak with one voice with china to achieve this balance in our trade relations. but i think we europeans have our share of the work to do. we must have a european strategy, particularly in terms of production, reindustrialisation, research and innovation. the united states has a strategy. they are defending, commissioner, whole sections of their economy. china has a strategy. i ask that the european union also has a strategy, not of defence but of offense, a strategy to move forward, to demand more balanced relations and, at the same time, to work at home on production, on wealth creation, and sometimes to preserve whole sectors for economic development, in the same way as the giants like the united states do. i hope, commissioner, that you will defend these views in the coming days.
in writing. for years, china's economic signals have consistently been in the green: record trade surplus, extraordinary foreign exchange reserves and spectacular growth. this dynamic should give rise to hope, as global growth is picking up. on the contrary, it is causing concern in europe, because the chinese miracle seems to be happening at the expense of our economic development. while china is taking full advantage of the globalised economy to export its products or win european public contracts, it is reluctant to do the same on its own territory. it reserves its public contracts to chinese firms and forces our advanced industries to make considerable technology transfers in order to gain access to its private markets, thus forcing us to cut the branch on which we are sitting! the eu must therefore put an end to this naive trading relationship and act in concert to impose the principle of reciprocity in its trading relations! if china wants to continue to benefit from our market of 500 million consumers, it must respect the international rules (open markets, intellectual property rights, free exchange of currencies) to which it subscribed when it joined the wto in 2001!
mr president, this tax is causing a lot of commotion, and we have seen how some colleagues who have just started to hurl insults are then immediately running away. i would simply like to point out that parliament has already made its position very clear on the principle of this tax in several resolutions or decisions. i think what matters today is the actual implementation because we feed communication with a whole series of projects, a whole series of words, and behind it, there's not much going on. i think what's important is that we get real. in this case, parliament is only consulted, because it is a tax case, and that is why i think we must be clear and simple in stating what we want. the commission's proposal is interesting and good, and i think it should be followed. we must not try to weaken it, since there are already strong divisions within the council and the chances of this text coming to fruition as we wish, that is to say at european union level, are relatively low. that is why some people are suggesting that we work in close cooperation. that's one of the ideas. parliament is not consulted on this matter, but it is true that we must make every effort to do so. the position of the epp group is clear. after discussions and hesitations, the epp group is now in favour of the financial transaction tax. he wants it to be as global as possible, but as the epp group is realistic, we know that this is not possible today. we want it to be adopted at european level and not be lowered to a lower level, because that would certainly be detrimental to europe's financial economy. we must not hide our faces: if there is no european internal market - the european market is a whole and i personally have never believed in leaks and departures - if we fall to a lower geographical level, the risk exists. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, my dear colleague, we must always be optimistic. anything can happen. the road to damascus exists. i think that, in the face of the realities, the problems of the economic crisis and the need to obtain financial resources in a fair way, to avoid speculation and to moralize financial life, everyone can agree that this tax will be useful. i would like to repeat that i would like this tax to be established at european union level. if we have to go down, we must not go too low in the geographical field, so as not to create distortions of competition which would be harmful. i hope that the states which are not in favour of it will become so. i am counting on commissioner šemeta's conviction to move this matter forward, and i encourage him to do so.
mr president, madam president of ecofin, commissioner, when we approach a proposal for financial regulation in the very traditional way, we encounter two arguments. the first is that action can only be taken on the largest possible scale, if possible on a global scale, and that any reduction to a lower level would lead to a risk of unfair competition. the second argument is to say: "oh no, but we must exclude certain products which are safe". i would simply remind our colleagues of the commitments made by the european union, in particular through the g20 members, who in london in april 2009 said: 'we have decided that all systemically important financial institutions, markets and financial products will have to be subject to an appropriate level of regulation and supervision'. it seems to me that the taxation of financial transactions should also, in these circumstances, cover ucits and pension funds, that the level of intervention at which we can launch this proposal will be the right level of intervention and that the question of risks must be assessed globally, and not always just to protect the same risks.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i would like to thank the commission for having the courage to make this proposal, and our fellow rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs for trying to work on it. of course, if we only tackled the issues on which there is already a consensus, we would have less work in this house. if we were to tackle only those issues on which everyone agrees from the outset, including a conception of the internal market which is sometimes a bit about taking all the advantages, without ever wanting to play the solidarity and level playing field card, it would be much easier. but this is real. i would like to invite you to consider a point. we are making an effort in the euro area and throughout the european union to clean up public finances. i feel that the expenditure side is always given far more importance than the revenue side. in order to balance a budget, it is important to reduce expenditure and to manage it well, but it is also important that the revenue goes into the coffers of the states. i invite you to refer to the latest oecd report on the rise of inequality in europe, and i highly recommend you read it. this is not a document produced by a far-left workshop. it is a document produced by the oecd, which shows that the rise in inequality, which is endangering the political stability of our countries, is partly linked to the absence of tax revenues for a number of years. this is a major problem and, in relation to this question, i would say that the modalities of introducing the financial transaction tax are secondary, and that there are always manoeuvres of tackling small details, of trying to exempt this or that category, of trying to exclude this or that country, and of turning a blind eye to what is happening right now in our societies, namely an increase in the scandalous inequalities linked to the fact that large companies and rich individuals no longer pay taxes.
mr president, there is a proposal for a financial transaction tax, which i support. but what a waste of time, what a disaster to draw the consequences of the scandal of the hoarding of wealth by a minority of speculators at the heart of all the disorders of the world economy. it took the destabilization of the world's economies by these greedy predators for a majority to finally agree to this proposal. but still! how frivolous, how timid even in what is proposed to us today, as if we had to act, but not too strong, as if we were afraid to frighten. for those who yesterday did not want to do anything, those who yesterday did not want to change anything, are now bowing down to the speculative pension funds which they want to exempt from this tax. i'm going to report him. we are depriving ourselves of a powerful tool, and this has the effect of weakening the new instrument which we want to see implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has now moved on to practical work and we have tried to improve its draft text in committee. we now have a base that includes foreign exchange transactions, derivatives, stocks and bonds traded on the secondary market. like the commissioner, we want the ftt to cover pension funds and ucits, which the epp unfortunately wants to exclude. we also have two tax rates, including a lower rate for derivatives, which seems paradoxical if we want to combat speculation. but overall, the compromise we reach will be a major step forward, especially if it receives a large majority in the plenary. this would send a strong signal to the council, where the political change in france opens up new prospects for european growth initiatives. the financing of these could be achieved, in particular, by the mobilisation of this first european tax instrument. it is the financial sector that is responsible for the crisis, not its victims, the european citizens. the proceeds will also help to reduce the contribution of the member states, which are asked to reduce their deficits. the european parliament has thus suggested that it is not impossible to reconcile fiscal justice, deficit reduction and support for growth. this bodes well, ladies and gentlemen, before the informal summit which opens this evening.
mr president, i look forward to this debate. every week, we hear political leaders here and there launching such a project, as if it were their own invention and revolutionary idea. it is five years since this parliament first voted in favour of it. there have been others since. the commission has put a precise and comprehensive draft on the table for a year now - thank you, commissioner šemeta - and a group of experts from the 27 governments has been working on it for six months. let us not mistake the nature of this tax. it's an indirect tax, like vat. it is therefore not punitive towards financial operators. it will be borne by their customers, but on the basis of a plate so wide and a rate so low that it will, in fact, be imperceptible. if it is well designed in its practical terms, it will also not have significant offshoring effects on transactions. let us not mistake its object either. it is twofold: to finance common european objectives and to relieve national budgets. it is true that unanimity among the 27 will be difficult to achieve, but if agreement is reached to establish an identical tax in a significant number of member states, its natural allocation should be to the union budget. the member states which choose this allocation should be able to reduce their national contribution to the community budget accordingly. this will give them room to reduce their own deficit and debt, and much worse for others!
in writing. red tuna, one of the most prized species in the mediterranean, is now endangered because of over-exploitation in the region. to protect this species, the european union and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (cicta) have set up a monitoring system and a multiannual plan to restore bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. we wanted to strengthen this plan. but for several years now, the debate has been heated. should we continue to grant quotas or suspend fishing for this endangered species? as you know, i prefer pragmatism and realism, and i am not in favour of zero quotas. however, i think it is essential to reduce quotas and to strengthen surveillance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i support the amendment of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 which follows the recommendation of iccat. i approve the plan for the rebuilding of stocks drawn up by that organisation. however, i would like to remind you that a balance must be struck between conservative measures and maintaining activity. i share the rapporteur's desire to combat iuu fishing and to make the european union an example in fisheries management.
in writing. bluefin tuna is now threatened with extinction in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, as a result of overfishing over the last decade. the european authorities must vigorously combat this danger to the marine ecosystem. parliament, by voting on this resolution on the rebuilding of bluefin tuna stocks, approved the introduction of new international rules which will make it possible to reduce the number of vessels authorized to fish for this fish. in addition, member states will have to reduce their fishing quotas by 2013 in order to help restore the world bluefin tuna stock. the fight against the disappearance of fisheries resources requires the union to be unwavering in its determination.
in writing. we had the opportunity to prevent the extinction of bluefin tuna and the eu, the main operator of this species, to assume its responsibilities. it is regrettable that the european parliament has failed to adopt more ambitious measures to address the critical situation of this iconic endangered species. the new legislation, which i could not vote against, is only a minimum which will at least allow existing international standards to be implemented. the european union has just come into line with the commitments it has made in the framework of the iccat, but we are still far from the necessary measures. for example, measures to close fishing areas, particularly during the breeding season, and stricter measures, particularly on illegal fishing and overfishing, would have been needed to address certain shortcomings that are currently exacerbating the problem of overfishing of the stock. it may not be too late and the eu will have another opportunity to implement stricter regulations in november this year.
in writing. bluefin tuna fishing is a major concern on the european agenda, as the balance between the need to ensure the future of the tuna fishing sector and the need to ensure the conservation of the species is fragile. the community has been a member of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccta) since 1997 and its recommendations are binding. however, in 2010, iccat adopted a recommendation amending the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the plan provides for the strengthening of measures to reduce fishing capacity and also control measures. due to the high prices for buying bluefin tuna on the market, illegal activities in the sector have indeed developed. the immediate implementation of these recommendations should therefore help to improve stock management in order to ensure stock replenishment.
in writing. the bluefin tuna fishery is one of the most regulated fisheries in the european union. i think this proposal for a regulation takes a balanced approach. it is intended to strengthen controls and measures to reduce fishing capacity. i supported this report in the vote in plenary, which was adopted by 635 votes to 16, with 11 abstentions.
in writing. the problem of bluefin tuna stocks arose in the early 1990s when a practice was introduced to fatten bluefin tuna for the japanese market. strict management measures are needed, and that is why i voted in favour of the regulation on a multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the new rules include reducing the size of fishing fleets, extending closures to certain types of vessels, and tightening controls. these rules, adopted at international level, must now be incorporated into european law.
in writing. this report does not reflect the ecological emergency of the critically low bluefin tuna population in the mediterranean. while scientists are unanimous in saying that there is an urgent need to at least respect the quotas, this half-hearted text still does not require member states to put in place an effective system of control and monitoring of fisheries in the mediterranean. nor does it call for the establishment of sanctified spawning areas. it is even less concerned with the time limits granted by iccat for adjusting fishing effort in accordance with the quotas provided for and, in so doing, does not specify the necessary financial compensation to be granted to tuna fishermen. it is about planning for sustainable fishing and effective and shared protection of this common good of the sea and all the life we need in it. i'm against the devastating offshore factories. i am in favour of small-scale fishing by coastal communities. this report falls far short of this double requirement. i'm not going to.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i am aware of the difficulties faced by fishermen, but nothing would be worse for them than the disappearance of this species, which is now seriously endangered. the protection of marine biodiversity is a major challenge. if we continue at the current rate of predation, even by 2050, there will be no known fish or shellfish available for commercial fishing.
in writing. the atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna stocks have been declining considerably over the years and there is an urgent need to protect them. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct), to which the eu is a contracting party under the common commercial policy, adopted a new recommendation at its annual meeting in 2010. the amendments include a reduction in the allowable catch (tac) and a strengthening of the control measures used for the implementation of the recovery plan. i therefore support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009 on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the revenue generated by fishing is so important that it actively encourages illegal fishing and other illegal activities. it is therefore time to reassess and re-adjust the management measures adopted by iccat to current activities. it is also time for the european union to act rapidly on its own initiative and as a precautionary measure to protect bluefin tuna and ensure the recovery of its stocks.
in writing. following the various cruise ship accidents that have occurred in recent months, the european parliament has addressed the issue of double hulls on ships. my french colleague dominique riquet of the european people's party was responsible for the report on the recasting of the regulation on the accelerated introduction of double hulls on ships. the main objective was to implement new international rules established by the international maritime organisation (imo) in a regulation dating from 2002. as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, i could not but support this report, which is also a tool in the fight against pollution. the double-hull regulation prevents the contents of tankers from leaking into seawater and causing serious pollution to oil in the event of collision or stranding. it is therefore essential that single-hull vessels speed up their compliance.
in writing. the environmental disasters of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2000 showed the need for better protection of oil tankers against damage, which has damaged our marine environment and coastal areas in the past. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which goes in that direction. the european parliament has for several years adopted effective decisions to increase the safety of oil tankers and reduce the risk of pollution.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague dominique riquet, which was adopted in plenary by 656 votes in favour, 4 against and 15 abstentions. the report is intended to reform a text which is resistant. this revision was necessary to take account of the numerous revisions to the text since its adoption in 2002 following accidents at sea involving oil tankers and the changes brought about by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards the possibility for the european commission to adopt delegated acts.
in writing. this report calls for more parliamentary scrutiny of the delegated acts to be adopted by the european commission with regard to the regulation of tanker safety. i support that request. the subject is too sensitive for the commission to take decisions on it alone. in general, the control of the commission by the elected representatives of the people should be strengthened.
in writing. i have given my consent to the conclusion of a new fisheries agreement between the eu and mozambique. our countries are very present in mozambican waters, and many changes were necessary. these amendments are aimed at improving the management, control and governance of fishing activities in mozambican waters. other measures, such as the obligation to recruit mozambican seamen, are aimed at increasing the direct positive economic impact for the country. under the new protocol, the eu will pay €980,000 to mozambique: €520,000 for access to fishing waters and €460,000 to support mozambique's maritime and fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow our vessels to fish legally on the mozambican coast. in a win-win approach, this agreement facilitates the economic activity of european companies (fisheries here), while allowing the union to contribute to the development of mozambique through its support for a sector essential to the country's economy. europe also promotes human rights and its democratic values, providing for the termination of the partnership if it finds that its principles are being violated.
in writing. the council aims to conclude a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with mozambique for a period of three years as a matter of urgency. the protocol will give 75 vessels from the european tuna fleet the opportunity to fish. the rapporteur, while recognising the urgency of concluding this agreement, nevertheless asks the commission and the council to submit a report assessing the results of the application of this protocol within a maximum of one year from its entry into force. i supported the report by my colleague, mrs dolores garcia-hierro caraballo, in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation on a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mozambique. this text provides that the european union and european fishermen will give monetary and economic compensation when they exploit the mozambican seabed. european structural aid, taxes per vessel and per quantity caught, quotas for the employment of mozambican personnel per vessel, regular checks by the authorities of the country of the vessels and their log books are provided for. the whole thing will be set up with the participation of mozambican scientists and, in theory, with respect for human rights. in theory, if either party were to fail to comply with these clauses, the agreement would be suspended. in a country that has fallen into such misery, the agreement reached can be a blessing in terms of training, social inclusion and financing. for once, there seems to be reciprocity, something to which we in the european union are hardly accustomed. let us hope once again that the deeds will be in accordance with the speeches.
in writing. this week, the european parliament was consulted by european ministers on the creation of a financial transaction tax. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i have long advocated the development of this draft and i welcome the fact that the european parliament has sent a strong message to the council, as 71% of the voting members supported the creation of a financial transaction tax. the ttf could generate up to €57 billion according to the european commission's forecasts. in these times of crisis, is this not a great opportunity for the financial sector to contribute to the recovery of europe, to revive its image and to regain the confidence of its citizens? finally, contrary to what the french socialists would have us believe, i would like to point out that the idea of a financial transaction tax was put forward by nicolas sarkozy both at national level (and it will apply in france from 1 august) and at european level. we can see the positive results today in the european parliament...
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of the podimata report, in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt). since the current crisis was created by stock market and financial speculation, i consider it logical and right that this tax should finally be introduced. the latest eurobarometer survey shows that 66% of europeans are in favour of such a tax. the financial transaction tax and the new resources it generates should also help finance growth in europe. from this point of view, we must defend the widest possible base and fight against exemptions and niches which would favour speculators. i regret the timidity of the european right, which has preferred to exclude pension funds, as if this financial instrument could not, like any other financial instrument, be used for speculation!
in writing. this tax is a tax for fiscal justice, which will make ultra-speculative activities pay and will help prevent new crises. the more we do it, the more effective it will be. this tax is also a tax on growth. from now on, finance will participate in the real economy, whether it wants to or not. it is in order that all, and particularly the states, may hear this strong message that we have voted in favour of this report in large numbers.
in writing. the european parliament has taken a major step forward in financial regulation by endorsing the commission's proposal to impose a financial transaction tax. the resolution adopted by parliament also sets out the contours of the tax in order for it to be truly effective: its scope must be as broad as possible and it must target, for example, all financial institutions located outside the eu that trade in securities issued from a member state. the resolution also calls for the implementation of an ambitious action plan to combat tax evasion. this resolution is a positive signal to the european citizens faced with the disastrous effects of the crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which supports the creation of a financial transaction tax in the eu member states. this initiative, which president sarkozy wanted, would limit financial speculation, which is partly at the root of the crisis we are going through.
in writing. behind an attractive idea and laudable objectives, the taxation of financial transactions at european level is not satisfactory. the need to reconcile finance and the real economy is a necessity, since some practices in the field are disconnected from it. to make "the bankers" who have been supported in times of crisis pay may also seem fair. however, any tax on international financial transactions cannot be passed through the community channel. firstly, because the taxation of goods must be the exclusive responsibility of the member states. the european union hopes to appropriate this power of taxation while at the same time providing itself with its own resources, which would make it even more independent of the states. on the other hand, the scale of the continent is not suitable for the introduction of a tax which is intended to be a deterrent.
in writing. the main virtue of this report and of this proposal for a directive is that it sends a political signal to the financial sector, which is taxed so little in relation to the real productive activities and is so unsatisfactory when it comes to doing its real job: financing the economy. many speakers this morning said that this would hamper the access of businesses to the financing they need. but ask the latter if it can really be worse than today! i do not think that this is a strong signal, however, given the content of the debate this morning and the state of the matter in the council. but the transfer of all or part of this tax, if it ever comes into existence, to the european budget is completely unacceptable, as is any possibility given to the commission to adopt delegated acts in this area. the possibility that this tax, whatever form it takes, does not apply to the whole of the european union, and in particular to the united kingdom, is absurd. and above all, no one has raised the main problem: the unhindered free movement of capital at european and world level, the source of the financialization, speculation and 'short-termism' that undermine the world economy. so, in principle, but doubtful about the modalities, i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report recommending the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) at european level, thus supporting the draft directive presented by the commission last september. the ftt is an excellent instrument for raising new revenue to finance recovery policies. it is one of the best ways of going beyond the mere austerity policies which are driving europe into the wall, plunging too many european citizens into precariousness and leading to political and democratic impasses, the extent of which some still refuse to measure. i regret, however, that the european parliament has granted an exemption to pension funds. this is a bad sign, especially as these funds - which are long-term investors - are marginally affected by the tax, which mainly penalises short-term players.
in writing. once again, the european parliament voted by a large majority in favour of such a financial transaction tax. i welcome this vote, which is a strong signal to the markets and to those states which are still reluctant to impose such a tax. risk-taking behaviour in financial markets has played a major role in the current crisis. it is more than urgent that they join the collective effort to bring europe out of the crisis and back to growth. the european parliament has made its views clear on this, and it is now up to the member states to do the same.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because a financial transaction tax is essential to the establishment of a new economic order which is more balanced and fair. it is not the citizens who are paying the price for the misuse of finance: the practices of finance have brought us to this situation, so it is only natural that it should help to correct it. the tax will thus discourage financial institutions from taking excessive risks and will also provide an additional source of revenue for the european union, both of which i believe are necessary to support the real economy. it was important to set a rate low enough to allow harmonization among european countries. moreover, the latter will make fraud unprofitable and the sanction mechanisms provided for will make it a very risky operation. despite this first step, the financial sector will only be able to face its responsibilities fully when this measure is adopted on a global scale. in the run-up to a global consensus, it is essential that the union should set an example by bringing to the international stage the proposal that was courageously put forward by nicolas sarkozy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text setting out parliament's requests on the content of the future financial transaction tax. the question is no longer whether we are for or against the tax, but whether we want to be clear about the content of the tax. we are asking for the broadest possible range of taxable persons, and i regret that pension funds are exempt from this tax. this tax will discourage speculation and will make it possible to go directly to the european budget to increase its own resources.
in writing. the european parliament has approved by a large majority the report on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. this tax, which france - and president sarkozy in particular - has always supported, would constitute an own resource of the union which would provide significant budgetary revenue. the opposition of the united kingdom and other member states is a major obstacle to its implementation. however, the debate must be continued, as the financial transaction tax is an effective tool that would present the least inconvenience if applied at the widest possible level.
in writing. the report by my colleague anni podimata, which i supported in plenary, aims to establish a common system of taxation on financial transactions. it was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that. the recent crisis has sparked a debate in the european parliament on the possible value added of a financial transaction tax (ftt). the ftt will help to make the financial sector bear part of the costs of the crisis while ensuring that it is taxed fairly in relation to other sectors , to discourage financial institutions from taking excessive risks and, finally, to create additional revenue to finance the general budget or specific policies. according to initial estimates, the ftt could generate revenue of €57 billion a year in the european union, depending on the reaction of the markets.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague anni podimata on the proposal for a council directive establishing a common system of financial transaction tax and amending directive 2008/7/ec. in this text, the european parliament has expressed its determination to support the application of the financial transaction tax (ftt) at european level, given the ultimate objective of an international ftt. at the informal summit on growth in brussels, we in the european parliament wanted to send a strong message to the council for the introduction of such a tax. the introduction of the ftt could generate up to €57 billion (depending on the rate and base) if the tax were applied in all member states. i also welcome the proposal in the report that, in the event of certain member states blocking the ttf, a number of member states would be able to implement it through the enhanced cooperation mechanism.
in writing. i voted in favour of a text on a common system of financial transaction tax, which the european parliament has been calling for for two years following the global financial crisis of 2008. it is important to introduce fiscal instruments to reduce the taxation of labour and production and to increase taxation in sectors that generate large negative externalities for the real economy. a financial transaction tax would be designed to prevent the transfer of transactions to third countries and territories, to prevent tax evasion and to prevent the costs from being passed on to consumers and citizens.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the financial transaction tax proposal i have been carrying since the formation of attac in 1998 is finally on the agenda of the european institutions. the union is always 15 years behind! i note that the committee on economic and monetary affairs has approved the amendment tabled by the left front members which aims to extend the tax proposed by the commission to transactions on the foreign exchange market. that's good news. i regret, however, that the exceptional provisions on derivatives and the prohibition on states from creating any new tax on financial transactions are retained in the text. with my colleagues from the left front we have tabled amendments again to abolish them. i am voting for this step forward.
in writing. the european commission has put the proposal for a financial transaction tax at the centre of the debate, in particular in response to the serious consequences of the financial crisis. the report by mrs podimata proposes that the financial sector be made to bear part of the costs of the crisis, that financial institutions be dissuaded from taking excessive risks, that regulatory measures be supplemented to prevent further crises, and that additional revenue be created to finance the general budget of the union by enriching the residence principle and by removing pension funds or occupational pension institutions from the list of financial institutions to which the ftt would apply. the report makes a strong case for the application of the financial transaction tax (ftt) at eu level . i therefore support this proposal. however, the report does not deal with the management of the revenue from this tax, and opts for the latter to be managed by the multiannual financial framework programme. the tff would represent a significant contribution to the european union's own resources, thus broadening the scope for financing specific policies, projects or public goods.
in writing. since the beginning of the economic and financial crisis affecting europe, the idea of introducing a financial transaction tax has been gaining ground. while the latest eurobarometer survey shows 66% of europeans support it, and parliament has been calling for it for almost two years, the commission put forward a legislative proposal to this effect at the end of 2011. the parliament, consulted on the proposal, has not questioned either the amount of the tax - set at 0.1% for shares and bonds and 0.01% for derivatives - or the timing (the entry into force will be before the end of december 2014). the text calls for the tax to be better designed so that more operators are subject to it and tax evasion is not profitable. the text also leaves open the possibility of financing the development of the least developed countries, at least in part, with the proceeds of the levy. i think these points are fundamental, which is why i supported this resolution. the ball is now in the council's court.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common system of financial transaction taxation because i believe that the eu should be an example in this area. international finance must now be better supervised and controlled. in this respect, the introduction of a financial transaction tax is part of this essential effort to regulate financial flows. i also believe that part of the revenue from the financial transaction tax within the union should be used as own resources of the union budget. similarly, a certain percentage of the amount collected by this tax should be invested in financing union policies on development cooperation and the fight against climate change in developing countries.
in writing. it seems clear to me that the financial sector, which generates considerable profits every year, must contribute to the revival of the economy. the introduction of a financial transaction tax is all the more justified as the 2007 crisis started in this sector. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. i also believe that imposing this tax on the derivatives market is a good option, given the value of this market, which is worth several trillion euros, and its role in precipitating the greek crisis. to be effective and exemplary, this measure will have to be deployed at european level first, before convincing our international partners. our english friends must understand that such a tax could also benefit them, without destroying the city's competitiveness. it must be said that this tax, which is painless for the financial sector, will generate 57 billion euros, consolidate our national budgets, and create specific resources that we could put at the service of the real economy. in short, it is a common sense measure, which is in line with what the financial markets are advocating to get out of the crisis.
in writing. i deplore the difficulties faced by european companies wishing to export or invest in china, particularly in the banking, insurance and telecommunications sectors, even as china is increasing its investment in europe. the european union must combat unfair competition from china and restore the balance of its trade balance. we wanted to set up a body to monitor chinese investment in europe, both in european companies and in the purchase of public debt. we need a partnership based on reciprocity of rules and on the balance and transparency of bilateral trade. the report encourages china to open up its markets more widely to european companies, in particular its public procurement, and to join the wto plurilateral agreement on public procurement. finally, we recall that customs cooperation between the european union and china is essential to combat piracy and counterfeiting.
in writing. the geopolitical and economic balance of the world, as everyone knows, is shifting. these colossal upheavals inevitably create imbalances and require adaptations, the natural field of action of which is obviously europe. china is a partner for the future if, and only if, the concept of reciprocity is put into practice. this report is a clear and salutary reminder. in this respect, i would like to commend the work of my colleague mrs de sarnez. it is now up to the commission, which has central powers in the negotiation of trade agreements, to take account of the specific requirements of the european parliament.
in writing. i am pleased to see this report adopted, as it proposes solutions to end the persistent imbalances in trade and financial relations between the european union and china. i agree with the rapporteur that european operators are having difficulty investing in china and entering its market. it seems to me important that china should first of all respect the wto rules and continue its efforts to reduce trade barriers. the european commission has already taken a number of steps to improve the quality of the information it receives from the european parliament and the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for fairer and more balanced trade relations between the european union and china, because i believe that globalisation should not be based on unfair competition. the aim of the text is to encourage china, the eu's second largest trading partner, to respect the principles of reciprocity in trade matters, but also the principles of balance and respect for social and environmental rules. it is also necessary to rebalance china's access to the eu's internal market, which is much more open and transparent. the eu must therefore develop a genuine strategy to promote 'fair trade' and protect its industries and some of its sectors from the social and environmental dumping of some of its trading partners, most notably china.
in writing. relations between the european union and china are currently unbalanced. it is now necessary for the union and china to develop a new partnership based on reciprocity of rules, balanced trade and transparency of trade relations. that is the simple message of my own-initiative report, which was adopted by a very large majority. it encourages china to open its markets more widely to european companies and to join the plurilateral agreement on public procurement. the report also advocates moderating china's system of joint ventures and strategic technology transfer. it proposes to increase eu-china customs cooperation to combat counterfeiting. it also recommended that the eu should use trade defence instruments where necessary, in particular to defend intellectual property rights. moreover, all this would be in vain if the union refused to implement a concerted policy of production, reindustrialisation and a research and innovation policy that would meet the new global challenges. it is also necessary for europe to speak with one voice vis-à-vis china, because the divergent bilateral relations of the member states with china have too often weakened the union's position.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report, which denounces unfair competition by china on our companies. we can no longer tolerate the fact that the second largest economy in the world is closing its domestic markets and taking undue advantage of the opening of our own market by supporting its companies, in defiance of the international rules laid down by the wto, of which china has been a member since 2001. europe must therefore maintain a constant but firm bilateral and multilateral dialogue with the chinese authorities so that reciprocity and transparency are finally placed at the heart of our trade!
in writing. in response to a matter which has been poisoning eu-china relations for some months, parliament adopted on wednesday 23 may the marielle de sarnez report which identifies the main causes of the imbalances in trade between the two partners and proposes to systematise the partnership principle which is lacking in trade. tools exist to ensure greater transparency, notably the 1985 cooperation agreement, whose standards could be updated and made more binding. but the eu's effective response to china's trade offensives should above all be reflected in closer coordination between member states, which would enhance the credibility of the eu's trade policy towards china. in this sense, the information that the commission is preparing to launch infringement proceedings against chinese equipment manufacturers huawei and zte and the possible retaliation that may follow will be worth following carefully.
in writing. the european parliament calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. in order to close this large trade imbalance between the eu and china, the european parliament has been engaged in a reflection aimed at rebalancing trade between the parties. the main objectives are to improve market access (in particular through the principle of reciprocity), to ensure that chinese imports comply with european standards for food and other products, to strengthen the eu in the face of global competition and, finally, to defend european industrial interests. i supported the report by marielle de sarnez in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mrs marielle de sarnez, on the trade imbalance between the european union and china. in this report, we, the members of the european parliament, point out the main causes of imbalance and the main barriers to trade between the european union and china. whether it is the very limited access of european companies to chinese public procurement, technology transfers or the issue of the undervaluation of the yuan, we believe that european economic operators are being penalized in relation to their chinese competitors. china's accession to the wto in 2001 will require a number of efforts, not all of which are visible at present. in view of the difficulties faced by european economic operators in china, we want a new framework for eu-china relations to be established by integrating the central notion of reciprocity into trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'eu and china: unequal trade?' which sets out parliament's position on trade relations with china. they must be fair and european companies must have access to the chinese market on the same terms as chinese companies to the european market. the text thus calls on the member states to ensure, through appropriate monitoring mechanisms, that foreign companies operating in the union comply with all legislation in force in the single market, including social and environmental standards.
in writing. i note with satisfaction that this report calls for the precise identification of holders of sovereign debt of states, that it calls for an assessment of foreign companies investing in the european union and that it reiterates the call for the introduction of 'marking of origin' of products imported into the union. otherwise, this report is a statement against china and an ode to liberalism. the opening of public procurement is established by virtue of it. protectionism is rejected as a whole. the wto and the g20 are presented as legitimate and benevolent forums. the partnerships between chinese universities and eu enterprises are recommended and the reciprocity, which is at the heart of the text, is implied. all these theories and proposals i reject. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the first bilateral cooperation agreement between the european union and china was signed in 1985. but after almost 30 years of partnership, the trade relations between the eu and china reveal a major imbalance. the list of these disharmonies shows worrying signs: limited access to chinese public markets for foreign companies, weak protection of intellectual property, severe restrictions on the export of chinese rare earths to european sectors, and the undervaluation and non-convertibility of the yuan are serious problems. reciprocity, which was originally the cornerstone of the agreement, seems to be more or less present in trade relations. european companies cannot now invest in china under the same conditions as chinese investors in europe. my vote in favour of mrs de sarnez's report supports the proposals made in this way to rebalance euro-chinese relations. it is therefore important to provide the appropriate tools and safeguards to update the terms of this agreement between the union and china. the aim is to fill the gap in the lack of transparency and mutual competition that is so marked in china-europe trade relations today.
in writing. the trade deficit between the eu and china has more than tripled in 10 years. european companies suffer from the undervaluation of the yuan, china's authoritarian industrial policies, insufficient protection of intellectual property, an ambiguous chinese regulatory system and a lack of reciprocity in market access. in the face of the crisis we are going through, establishing a more equitable relationship with china is a major challenge for our companies. i therefore wholeheartedly support the report by marielle de sarnez. the text has three essential elements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. i think that is fundamental. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. that is an idea i fully support. finally, the rapporteur stresses that we will only be able to meet this challenge effectively if we implement a concerted policy of production, reindustrialisation and a research and innovation policy that is responsive to the new global challenges. i am convinced of the same, and i am working on it.
in writing. this text increases the powers of committees of inquiry, which may be set up by parliament to shed light on errors committed by institutions and/or individuals on certain subjects of importance to the european union. i therefore supported this proposal, which now gives the elected representatives of the european citizens the means to exercise effective democratic control, which is essential for the proper functioning and progress of the european construction.
in writing. i have supported this report because i believe that, just as the lisbon treaty extended the european parliament's powers as a co-legislator, we must give it stronger means to effectively investigate possible breaches of union law or mismanagement in the implementation of its provisions. while we would have liked to have been even more ambitious, this text is still the result of a compromise with a council and a european commission that feared that parliament would turn its political power into a judicial body, which was not the case at all. but this is an important step forward from the 1995 decision which has so far allowed the european parliament to set up three committees of inquiry. the new powers will therefore include the possibility for a committee of inquiry to carry out any type of inquiry and to obtain the assistance of the national authorities, if necessary, in order to enable its conclusions to be based exclusively on evidence. the introduction of the rule that member states will be obliged to sanction non-compliance with this regulation is also a definite step forward.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague david martin on the exercise of the right of inquiry by the european parliament. the treaty of lisbon has conferred on the european parliament the power to determine the rules governing the exercise of this right of inquiry. this report calls for the creation of a committee of inquiry, the right for this committee to carry out any type of inquiry and to have access to all documents during its inquiry. finally, the rapporteur gives this committee the power to summon anyone to appear before it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the martin report on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, which proposes a definition of the arrangements for the european parliament's right of inquiry. parliament acquired this right with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, subject to the council's agreement. article 226 provides that parliament may, at the request of one quarter of its component members, set up a temporary committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach or maladministration in the application of union law. in order to clarify this provision, the text covers the subject matter and the general rules relating to the establishment of a committee of inquiry, the general rules of procedure and the inquiry.
mr president, the new republic of south sudan is only ten months old, but has been at war with its northern neighbour for eight months. more than 150,000 people have been displaced. fighting and bombing are continuing on the border, and these two countries, which have everything to prosper, are wasting their resources in a conflict with no end in sight that only adds to the tension in an already fragile region of africa. it is time for khartoum and juba to comply with the resolutions of the african union and the united nations, to end hostilities and to resume negotiations without conditions. the two new countries had pledged to their international guardians to settle the outstanding issues: the demarcation of the 20% of the border still to be drawn, the status of southerners living in the north and northerners living in the south and, above all, the sharing of oil resources. both the north, thanks to transit, and the south, which has 70% of the reserves, have an interest in concluding an agreement that would be mutually beneficial. but neither of them can count on the international community to remain silent in the face of the humanitarian tragedy that is unfolding. if dialogue between khartoum and juba is not resumed quickly, it will be essential for the united nations to apply pressure and take sanctions. i note that china has decided to take responsibility in this matter. that's good. but it is necessary - and indispensable - for the european union to continue to assert its position and political presence. our balanced position is the right one. let us make it more forceful and more readable and, above all - i say this to the eeas, but they know it well - let us not forget the conflict and the drama in darfur.
mr president, i thank our colleague for the quality of his report, which i shall be happy to support. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, our economy and our industry in europe depend on resources and raw materials, whose prices are becoming more and more unstable and whose access is becoming uncertain, in a context of fierce international competition. take, for example, the rare earths needed for many new technologies, of which china holds almost all the mining potential. in order to protect our industrial competitiveness, but also our environment, it is imperative that we learn to be less dependent on these resources, by developing innovation and recycling. the european union must move towards a true circular economy, in which the extension of the life of materials is a priority, from the design stage of products to the reuse and recycling of waste. for efficiency purposes, the energy recovery of waste must also be promoted. we must also turn to the sustainable exploitation of resources whose potential is still too often underestimated. i would like to stress the importance of the natural capital of forest resources. wood is a renewable energy resource and a great, healthy, natural building material. in the face of the dynamism of emerging powers, we need to adopt a more proactive and imaginative approach to the use of resources in order to get back on the path of growth. the european union must encourage its companies to create more innovative and sustainable products. it must also influence consumer behaviour by empowering them. in this sense, i support the ongoing experiments on environmental product labelling, the aim of which is to provide europeans with credible information on the environmental impacts of their consumption choices. resources such as water, for example, are fragile and precious commodities, and we must not forget this.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on employment and social affairs wanted to ask this question, and at the time it did not know that on the very day we were debating it, the ilo would be releasing figures on youth unemployment worldwide, with a figure of 75 million unemployed young people and a red card for the european union, in which 7.5 million young people between 15 and 24 are unemployed, without education and without training. the european union is the worst pupil on a global scale. but when i look at the challenges that the european union faces on a global scale, here and elsewhere, all day long, we say that europe must meet the challenge of innovation, that it is innovation, that it is - a term i do not like - our human capital that will enable us to win the battle of globalisation. now, if that's the diagnosis we're making, how can we leave out of the labor market and exclude an entire generation? it is the whole question of the social impact of this crisis that is not taken into account, that is neglected, that is regarded as a secondary issue. and it is a collective risk we are taking and the consequences of which we are already seeing in a number of countries. so the european commission has set up action teams in eight of our member states - italy, ireland, greece, portugal, latvia, spain, lithuania, slovakia - so that the european union can mobilise its actions, its teams, in these countries to address this particular challenge. so we ask you, commissioner, what is your assessment? what are your proposals? how are you doing? we will accompany you as soon as any useful proposals are made in this regard. but we do not accept that youth unemployment has risen from 14.7% in 2008 to 22.1% in 2011 and that in many of our countries - we know this - almost half of young people are out of the labour market. we need to see that what we have defined together as the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy - which, it seems to me, has not gone away - is followed up by action. now, in this strategy, i should remind you, we said we wanted to reduce school dropout to 10 percent of young people; we said that 40 percent of 30-34 year olds should have a qualifying degree. what's the matter with him? the proposals are on the table. i take note of the council conclusions of 11 may 2012 on enhancing the creative potential and innovation of young people. the union must act urgently to this end. the european parliament, and in particular your committee on employment and social affairs, when it examines the report by mrs jutta steinruck on the social programme for change and innovation, will make proposals to you so that we can finance a 'youth' guarantee, so that young people, when they leave the school system or when they lose their jobs, will not be without a job, without a training or an apprenticeship for more than four months. these are the elements we wish to discuss with you, commissioner, because we are convinced that this is an issue for this generation of young people, the aim being to prevent them from becoming the excluded of tomorrow, but it is also an issue for our whole society for which we must mobilise, and i know, commissioner, that in this respect we can count on your vigilance and your strength of proposition. this is an opportunity to discuss it and to make proposals that go further. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, commissioner, i would like to ask the commission for some clarification on the proposal to redeploy the uncommitted structural funds. in a letter i received from your colleague, commissioner johannes hahn, he said that the commission had chosen to target eight states which were particularly affected by youth unemployment. the question i have for you is simple. does this mean that only the eight countries identified by the commission will benefit from this measure? does this mean that other states would be deprived of it? does this also mean, since france does not appear to be one of the eight states, that the french outermost regions will in fact be deprived of these redeployments, whereas it is in these regions that the highest rate of youth unemployment is found? in reunion, for example, the unemployment rate for young people under 25 is 60%. my proposal is therefore simple: i ask the commission to consider taking account of the specific situation of the outermost regions so that they may be eligible for positive measures to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. equal pay for men and women remains a major problem. our attention to this cannot be slack. it is not acceptable that women have to work on average until 2 march 2012 to be paid the same as men in 2011. awareness is necessary. the pay scales need to be more transparent. the appeals system must be strengthened to enable women to have access to justice. finally, the sanctions against employers who do not respect the principle of equal pay for men and women must be strengthened.
madam president, this is a reminder of the regulation based on article 15 of the treaty on european union. last night there was an informal european council, and i regret that the president of the european council did not come this morning to report on that meeting, in accordance with that article.
in writing. the european union's macro-financial assistance (mfa) was established in 1990 to provide financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. but the lisbon treaty has extended the powers of the parliament, and meps co-decide on a wider range of issues. i therefore approved the alignment of the decision-making procedures for the european union's macro-financial assistance. it was also about introducing a faster, more efficient and more rational decision-making process for case-by-case operations of the amf.
in writing. the european union has been too long complacent with neighbouring states that did not respect fundamental rights and democracy. today, this situation must change. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the money received will have to be automatically reinvested in sectors related to the field of human rights. parliament called on the commission, through the european external action service, to carry out strict checks on the use of funds by neighbouring countries to ensure respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which clarifies the rules to be respected by our neighbouring countries in difficulty, which wish to benefit from european financial assistance under the macro-financial assistance (mfa). while our states have committed themselves to a more rigorous management of their finances and public policies, it is indeed necessary for the european union to have the means necessary to ensure that its financial aid has a real positive impact on the economic and social development of the countries or territories which benefit from it, and that its action thus makes it possible to promote our democratic values and our good economic and social practices!
in writing. i was appalled by the attitude of ukraine and approved the joint resolution calling for the immediate and unconditional release of all ukrainian political prisoners. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism. i am very concerned about the judicial proceedings against former and current senior government officials, and stress the importance of respecting european standards of fairness, impartiality, transparency and independence. one woman has become the symbol of "political imprisonment": former prime minister yulia tymoshenko. as the october parliamentary elections approach, we want to set up an international election observation mission. as regards the euro 2012 football tournament in ukraine, any european public figure wishing to attend will either have to make it clear that he is aware of the political situation in the country and look for opportunities to visit political prisoners in prison, or attend the matches in a private capacity.
in writing. the worrying fate of yulia tymoshenko should make us reflect on the relations with ukraine, a neighbouring country of the eu which is seeking membership in the future. the situation of the former prime minister of ukraine, who has been imprisoned since november 2010, says a lot about the functioning of justice in that country: poor conditions of detention, non-recognition of the presumption of innocence and threat to his personal integrity... the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised.
in writing. ukraine has a special position in europe, which gives it a key role in its region and an influence on the security, stability and prosperity of the continent as a whole. the human rights situation in ukraine, respect for civil and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law are preconditions for the further development of ukraine's relations with the european union. unfortunately, it is clear that the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed. i consider the seven-year prison sentence of the former prime minister of ukraine, yulia tymoshenko, and other trials of other members of the former government unacceptable, and i have decided to support this resolution in plenary.
in writing. the situation of yulia tymoshenko and her health are of real concern. the possibility of a boycott of euro 2012 football by european leaders does not seem to be enough. it is important to send a strong signal to ukraine. the rule of law must be respected. yulia tymoshenko has the right to a fair trial. it must not be held merely on the basis of political considerations, and thus be the victim of political vengeance and political persecution. the independence of the judiciary must be preserved, and access to quality care in prisons must always be guaranteed.
in writing. we have adopted a resolution condemning homophobia in europe. we have called on the member states and third countries such as russia and ukraine to guarantee the rights of homosexuals. finally, we asked the commission to speed up its work on the draft directive against discrimination.
in writing. the european union must be at the forefront of the fight against homophobia in the world. however, discrimination against lgbt people (lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people) is still at work in some eu states but also in its immediate neighbourhood, in particular through the adoption of unjust laws or the increase in acts of violence. the resolution adopted by the european parliament recalls certain basic principles and urges these states to respect human rights and freedom of sexual orientation. it also wants to encourage different forms of legal recognition for same-sex couples, such as marriage, cohabitation or registered partnerships, which would provide better legal protection.
in writing. i co-signed and voted in favour of this resolution on the fight against homophobia in europe, because it was fundamental that we send a strong message against the recently adopted or in the process of being adopted homophobic laws in certain countries where homosexuality is criminalized, and this in the very heart of europe. the european parliament, a great defender of fundamental rights, should have examined and condemned these extremely worrying laws, which demonstrate the growing homophobia that currently exists in europe. it is utterly outrageous that the authorities justify these laws as necessary to protect public morality, when they restrict freedom of expression and are, on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, totally discriminatory. how can supporting, protesting or simply accepting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people be considered "homosexual propaganda"? for the first time since the last european elections, all the main political groups have agreed: we say 'stop the homophobic laws!' and we clearly condemn all discrimination, hate speech and violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. the european parliament adopted this joint resolution by 430 votes in favour, 105 against and 59 abstentions. while the european union is founded on the values of non-discrimination, respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, freedom of expression, equality and the rule of law, unfortunately there is a growing trend of homophobia, hate speech and incitement to violence and discrimination in some member states. the european parliament, through this resolution, wished to reiterate its strong condemnation of all violence, all discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and this growing trend towards homophobia. although this resolution has a very commendable initial objective, i regret that its drafters did not focus on the issues of homophobia, and tried to extend the resolution to the issue of the right to marriage. this question should not be included in a resolution whose initial objective was exclusively to condemn homophobia. moreover, this is a matter for the member states. in the end, this resolution turned into a catalogue of good intentions that had no substance. in view of this lack of rigour and consistency, i preferred to abstain on the final vote on this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the fight against homophobia, which condemns all discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. within the european union, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people must be protected from hate speech and homophobic violence. same-sex partners must enjoy the same protection as the rest of society.
in writing. the current situation of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) people is of particular concern. i am deeply concerned by the rise of homophobia in non-member countries as well as in eu member countries, and particularly by the violent events that have taken place in russia and ukraine against homosexuals. the european parliament had to react: it is important that europe sets an example of full recognition and full respect for the rights of lgbt people and that it condemns the enactment of legislation that may restrict their freedom of expression and assembly, thus violating the fundamental rights of the human person as enshrined by the council of europe and the european union. we also have a duty to protect these people from any hate speech and any form of discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution on the fight against homophobia in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the fight against homophobia, which i co-signed on behalf of my political group. recent developments in some european countries concerning restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly based on misconceptions about homosexuality are of particular concern, and homophobia continues to manifest itself in various forms, even within the european union. i deeply regret that the fundamental rights of lgbt people (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) are not always fully respected. the european parliament must firmly condemn any discrimination, incitement to hatred or violence on the grounds of sexual orientation. finally, i believe that homosexual children should have access to positive and reassuring information about their sexuality. these are the reasons why i supported the adoption of the joint resolution in its entirety.
in writing. this report is about reducing wasteful resource use to strengthen our economy and protect our environment. as a member of the committee on the environment, which is responsible for this text, i am committed on a daily basis to ensuring the best possible balance between achieving the european union's environmental objectives on the one hand and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies on the other. the text meets both these objectives fairly well, so i voted in favour of it. it advocates environmental taxation and calls for an end to environmentally damaging subsidies by 2020. it is non-binding and based on progressive developments, and it meets the requirements of realism for our companies. indeed, i believe that what we need is not a green revolution but a gradual change in our economy and society towards practices that are more protective of our environment and therefore also of our health.
in writing. the accelerated degradation of the environment, the destruction of natural capital and the loss of biodiversity that we are witnessing today are the result of the over-exploitation of natural resources. in view of the urgency of the situation, the european union must respond and make a greater effort to use resources more efficiently, taking into account the limitations of our planet. it is essential to manage the existing resources in europe in a more strategic and environmentally friendly way. it is in our own interests and in the interests of future generations that we must give them the opportunity to enjoy the same benefits as we have. it is therefore crucial to focus on information, education and awareness raising among citizens, especially with regard to waste sorting, reuse and recycling. this encourages more sustainable consumption patterns and has a direct impact on resource efficiency. this report, which contains concrete and ambitious measures to encourage the rational use of resources, seems to me to be moving in the right direction. however, it cannot be a strategy at european level alone, and must now be supported at national, regional and local levels.
in writing. i voted against the gerbrandy report on the efficient use of resources. the general structure of the report, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy, does not give me any particular problems. i am opposed to the idea that the so-called 'overcapacity' of the european fishing fleet should be seen as a key element in the reform of the cfp. i would remind you that in the absence of data on the capacity of the community fleet, it is impossible to denounce the overcapacity of the same fleet.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because our economy and our industry in europe depend on resources and raw materials, whose prices are becoming more and more unstable and whose access is becoming uncertain, in a context of fierce international competition. in order to protect our industrial competitiveness, but also our environment, it is imperative that we learn to be less dependent on these resources, by developing innovation and recycling. i am thinking in particular of the rare earths needed for many new technologies, of which china holds almost all the mining potential. we must also turn to the sustainable exploitation of resources whose potential is still too often underestimated. the european union must encourage its companies to create more innovative and sustainable products. it must also influence consumer behaviour by empowering them. in this sense, i support the ongoing experiments on environmental product labelling, the aim of which is to provide europeans with credible information on the environmental impacts of their consumption choices.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for the european union to manage the use of its resources in a more strategic way. in the face of the need to find new sources of sustainable economic growth, ensuring our energy independence and ending social inequalities in access to resources, this report makes practical and sensible proposals. in particular, it is suggested that existing action plans for investing in green research and innovation, sources of growth and jobs, be strengthened and that any obstacles to the smooth functioning of the european recycling market be removed. the european union must also set an example in environmental requirements, by extending eco-design to non-energy products, environmental information to mass-consumption products, or by using green public procurement more systematically.
in writing. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome. the world population is expected to increase by 30% by 2050 to 9 billion people. given this estimate, it is clear that our current model of resource use is not sustainable. in order to make our use of resources more rational and reasonable, the european commission's communication stresses the need to minimise waste generation, develop new products and services, improve stock management, change consumption patterns and, finally, optimise production processes and commercial methods, with a view to stimulating technological innovation and promoting employment in the green technology sector. more broadly, the commission aims to ensure the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy. the gerbrandy report welcomes the commission's approach and calls for coordinated action, consumer empowerment and, finally, a european plan for energy efficiency by 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the gerbrandy report on a resource-efficient europe. in order to preserve our natural capital and invest sustainably for future generations, it is important that we improve resource efficiency, that is, reduce their use. the european commission and the member states must also develop recycling and reuse. progress on the functioning of the common market should support these initiatives. we should also strengthen the protection of the forests of the european union and the means of preventing risks such as forest fires.
in writing. the youth unemployment rate was 22.1% in 2011 and i think we need a real action plan. i have approved the motion for a resolution which proposes concrete and solid measures to promote job creation and projects for young people. we have proposed the reallocation of the structural funds, or the introduction of a 'european youth guarantee' to ensure that young people do not remain unemployed for more than four months. it is imperative that we invest in our youth, our children, our future. as a structural fund expert, i regret that 82 billion has still not been used and therefore remains to be mobilised by the end of next year. unused, these funds will be lost to regions that have not used them. we have therefore asked the european commission to reallocate these funds as a priority to smes and projects for young people.
in writing. the watchword: save the lost generation. with an average unemployment rate of 23.5% in the eu, young people are among those most affected by the consequences of the economic and social crisis. in the resolution adopted today, we call on the european commission to be innovative in developing measures to promote youth employment. the european youth guarantee which it proposed in its last communication is a good start, as is the willingness to use the structural funds which are not yet committed. but we are now waiting for these good intentions to be put into practice, and they should concern all the member states. this guarantee for young people should help ensure that, within a few months of leaving school, young people benefit from training, a traineeship or an apprenticeship. but to be more than a mere empty promise, it must be legally binding. finally, a significant part of the €82 billion of the structural funds not yet committed must go directly to supporting projects for young people, but also for smes, which are the main forces creating jobs. the distress situation is real; the need for action is urgent; we have no choice but to risk being accused of non-assistance.
in writing. unemployment among young europeans exploded between 2008 and 2011, from 14.7% to 22.8% in three years. in spain, 50% of young people are affected. the european parliament has for years been making proposals to try to stem this scourge which is undermining the morale of our young people. the report suggests, in particular, the establishment of a major investment plan to create more jobs in the member states and the mobilisation of part of the unused structural funds (eur 82 billion over the last four years) to stimulate projects for young europeans. the risk of a 'lost generation' is growing within the eu and must be vigorously combated by all member states.
in writing. while the unemployment rate in the eu averages 10%, youth unemployment reached 22.1% in early 2011, up from 14.7% in 2008, and is close to 50% in some member states. i agree with the findings of this proposal. it is regrettable that, after four years of crisis, €82 billion of the structural funds for the period 2007-2011 remains unused. the commission should redistribute a substantial part of this to projects for young people. we want to achieve a real 'european investment plan' introducing a youth guarantee, through the creation of new jobs, the search for new sources of funding and access to high quality traineeships. it is also important to coordinate the action of the states, both in terms of training and market needs in the medium and long term, and in the exchange of good practice, by assessing the impact of the policies pursued, as in the case of austria, which has successfully introduced a number of guarantees for young people.
in writing. this resolution was adopted by a very large majority in the employment committee. its main objectives are to step up the fight against youth unemployment, to develop a european investment plan to create new jobs and to reallocate structural funds to projects for young people. i supported this resolution in plenary.
in writing. youth unemployment in europe is a real challenge. in some countries affected by the crisis, nearly one in two young people are unemployed. these same young people are also frequently the target of discrimination on the labour market because of their precarious situation. the current economic situation and the resulting austerity period offer little hope for the young. the european parliament has therefore decided to take action in favour of youth employment. we therefore call on the commission to redistribute part of the unused structural funds to support projects to promote education, training, mobility and access to employment for young people. we also encourage the member states and the commission to strengthen the links between the worlds of education and work by adapting school curricula to the needs of the labour market and by offering quality traineeships with high educational and training value. i support these proposals and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. as the slovak rapporteur edit bauer, a member of my party, the european people's party, points out, we ask the commission to take care of unfair discrimination against women and to make legislation on the reduction of the pay gap more effective. like her, i am appalled to see that the differences are still very large. we had to send a strong signal. the principle of equal pay is already stated in a 2006 directive. such injustices are no longer tolerable. as president of the women at the centre association, i would like to remind you that mentalities must change, in civil society, in the political world and in business.
in writing. even though equal pay has been enshrined in the european treaties for almost 40 years, this principle is still not respected. women are paid on average 16% less than men for the same work. this gap is even widening in some member states. moreover, to date no sanctions have been taken against the employers responsible. this is unacceptable ! it is incomprehensible that the commission and the member states have so far failed to remedy this, despite the insistence of the european parliament. it is high time that there is real pay equality between men and women. in this respect, i strongly support this report, which urges the commission to strengthen existing legislation and to provide for effective and dissuasive sanctions. i also believe that it is crucial to focus on the employability of women, particularly in decision-making positions, which seems to be the key to reducing the persistent gender pay gap.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on equal pay for men and women workers for equal work or work of equal value. the fact is that women's jobs are not valued financially, symbolically and economically in the same way as those of men. the principle of equal pay is being abused in the member states. the urgent need to close the gender pay gap must therefore be based on better knowledge of the problem, on the fight against stereotypes and on the sharing of good practice. however, the promotion of diversity in all decision-making areas and the improvement of information cannot be separated from concrete progress in legislation. i therefore support the idea of creating a system of collective redress and administrative sanctions in the event of a breach of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bauer report on the pay gap between men and women for equal work. i am convinced that this real discrimination against women is a social issue and that the european parliament, as the institution representing the citizens of the union, must show its commitment to social change. i therefore support the principle of equal pay, which is nothing but a measure of common sense. i hope that the commission will submit a proposal to this effect very soon.
in writing. the gender pay gap remains a worrying reality in europe. women earn on average 16.4% less than men for the same work: this is no longer acceptable. for some 40 years, the european union has tried to reduce this phenomenon, but without success. this innovative resolution sets out a sensible way of reducing these inequalities: the strengthening of sanctions in the event of companies not respecting the principle of equal pay. they could now be subject to suspension of their subsidies and administrative penalties. it is up to the commission to propose innovative texts and the member states to find the appropriate solutions to the problem of the gender pay gap.
in writing. equal pay for men and women has been on the political agenda for many years, but progress has been extremely slow. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which calls for stricter sanctions against employers who practice such wage discrimination. i am not a fan of punishments for everything, but i must admit that some bosses today do not respect the rules laid down in the past. in 2012, it is no longer acceptable that women earn about 17% less than men.
in writing. one of the eu's fundamental principles on non-discrimination is 'equal pay for equal work'. yet women across the eu working fulltime are paid on average 16.4% less than their male counterparts. in addition, poverty among women continues to increase and is aggravated by ageing, especially retirement. at the same time, girls score higher than boys in school and 59% of university graduates are women. despite half a century of legislation to ensure equal pay for men and women for equal work, it is clear that these inequalities are still relevant. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mrs edith bauer on equal pay because i believe that a strengthening of existing legislation has become indispensable to remedy this situation. this injustice is a matter of human rights and economics. some of the proposals to combat these inequalities effectively are: imposing sanctions, for example by blocking the allocation of european funds in the event of non-compliance with certain criteria; develop wage transparency in enterprises; strengthening the institutions that fight for greater equality and their powers of sanction.
in writing. the purpose of this legislative report is to invite the european commission to review directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. the directive still fails to eliminate many forms of discrimination against women. for example, the gender pay gap to the detriment of women is still a reality. the report recommends improvements in 9 areas, namely definitions, job evaluation and job classification, the expertise of equal treatment bodies, legal recourse, social dialogue and sanctions. it is a balanced report, which i supported in plenary. it was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by edith bauer, which contains recommendations to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women workers for equal work or work of equal value. despite binding european legislation since 1975, the gender pay gap is still a reality. the aim of the report is to identify recommendations for member states' practices that appear to be effective in addressing the gender pay gap across member states. although these recommendations are not binding, i welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to consider, in the context of its future proposal for a horizontal collective redress instrument, the inclusion of collective redress against cases of non-compliance with the principle of equal pay.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution deploring the recent decision by switzerland to introduce quotas on the number of residence permits issued to nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. even though switzerland is not part of the european union, according to the 1999 agreement there are normally no quantitative limits on long-term residence permits issued to eu nationals. i regret this decision by switzerland which hinders the free movement of persons from the last countries to join the european union.
in writing. the european parliament has rightly adopted this resolution calling on the swiss authorities to lift the quotas on long-term residence permits granted to nationals of certain eu member states. the current policy of the swiss government is in contradiction with all the agreements signed between the union and switzerland. in this respect it constitutes a clear obstacle to the free movement of persons in europe. the commission must immediately contact the swiss federal council to put an end to this situation which is a penalty for thousands of european citizens.
in writing. i support this resolution, which is shared by the main political groups in parliament, and which denounces the recent measures taken by switzerland to limit the granting of residence permits for up to five years to nationals of eight eu member states. this restriction, by introducing a differentiation according to nationality, is not only discriminatory but also illegal in view of the 1999 eu-switzerland free trade agreement. parliament also called on the commission to react to the proliferation of accompanying measures which considerably restrict the work of eu smes wishing to provide services in switzerland.
in writing. the swiss federal council has decided to introduce, as from 1 may 2012, quantitative restrictions on residence permits of category b for stays of up to 5 years issued to nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary. this is a discriminatory and illegal decision, which is not based on any legal basis justifying the introduction of such a national differentiation provided for by the existing treaties between switzerland and the union. we therefore deplore the reintroduction of these quantitative limits and urge the swiss authorities in this resolution to reconsider their decision and to revert to the use of the safeguard clause. this resolution was adopted by a large majority in the plenary, and i welcome that.
in writing. the decision of the swiss authorities to reinstate quantitative limits on long-term residence permits issued to polish, latvian, lithuanian, estonian, slovenian, slovak, czech and hungarian citizens is regrettable and of concern. it is contrary to the principle of free movement as provided for in the 1999 agreement between switzerland and the european union. increased cooperation and flexibility are needed. but such quota re-establishments are hardly justifiable.
mr president, in the context of these discussions on venezuela's intention to withdraw from an inter-american human rights authority, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the fact that very important trade negotiations are under way between the two blocs - the european union and mercosur, which is made up of argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay - and that venezuela is a candidate for mercosur membership. this may seem a bit off the mark, but i do not think we can deal with spaces that do not respect a set of legal rules. so, of course, we are not going to interfere in the accession procedures of the mercosur states, in the same way that mercosur does not have to intervene in determining whether croatia should join the european union or not. nevertheless, in the context of the negotiations between the two blocs, i believe that we must share this community of destiny between the european union and south america. it would therefore be a very bad sign if venezuela did not respect human rights, which is supposed to be the subject of this inter-american commission's scrutiny.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i hope someone is taking notes for the danish presidency. we also share the positive view of this resolution. it is extremely important for us that the council can hear the european parliament's voice on the mandate. i think the framework for institutional agreement is clear. it is not a binding opinion, but in view of the economic crisis, the social crisis, the trade deficits we have in europe, it is absolutely essential that we do not get the trade agreements wrong, that we do not get the negotiating content wrong. that is why, if for the first time the council were to hear what the european parliament has to say before setting the negotiating mandate, i think we would be taking a step forward in the quality of the agreements we can make. i believe that recent experience, including on acta, shows that it would be good political intelligence to listen to what the european parliament has to say before entering into negotiations. for environmentalists, it is not a question of obtaining concessions from the japanese before negotiation, as some groups believe. we simply say: let us have a transparent negotiation, let us have a clear negotiation and, for that, let us not engage in several negotiation processes, let us have a clear mandate on which we start negotiations. this also raises questions. negotiating with japan as well as negotiating with the united states also raises questions. we have had several discussions with pascal lamy in our committee on international trade and today this process is breaking down. to enter into negotiations with a large trading bloc such as japan or a large trading bloc such as the united states is a break with the european position, it is to set aside or to acknowledge the failure of the wto negotiations. we must be more careful about the consequences, especially when these negotiations are mainly about the regulatory system, about investment, about public procurement, about the whole of the regulatory framework rather than about tariffs. we must measure what is meant by bilateral negotiations rather than multilateral negotiations. then, commissioner, you said that i believe 90 per cent of the growth - that is your figure - would be outside the european area. i am not sure that the japanese area is the most dynamic at the moment but to benefit from this international growth, it is to be able to sell, it is to have a strategic vision of our economy and our industry. i regret once again that we are having some 20 trade negotiations around the world without having an industrial policy, without knowing what we want for our economy, for example, for our car industry in the next 20 years.
the question is "blue cardboard". just a question to mr caspary: has the epp ever voted against a free trade agreement, despite the conditions it set for the conclusion of an agreement? then, as a subsidiary question, does mr caspary have in mind a single impact assessment of the implementation of a free trade agreement which can confirm all the benefits that were announced at the time of the negotiation of a free trade agreement, whether social or economic benefits?
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr fjellner for his report and for all the work he has put into it. as he just said, we will only have to discuss this again in 10 years, and by then mr fjellner’s hair will either have started to disappear or will be getting grey. just over a year ago, the commission adopted a proposal to reform the eu generalised system of preferences (gsp). few trade files under this mandate have been subject to more intense scrutiny, and i congratulate the rapporteur, the committee on international trade (inta), and the danish and polish presidencies, for bringing us to where we are today. i am happy to see that the compromise reached between inta and the council presidency endorses the core areas of the commission proposal. this is not a coincidence. our internal discussions in the commission were as complex as yours, and our proposal was the result of very careful reflection and a detailed impact assessment. the outcome was a balanced proposal which tackles head-on the true problems we face in the gsp. it is balanced because it focuses preferences on those who need them the most while, at the same time, expanding opportunities for countries which embrace core international values or values in human rights, labour rights and the environment. the commission proposal confronts head-on the real issues behind gsp. the first one is that the poorest developing countries will never grow sufficiently if we do not give them the space they need to export. this space is currently taken up by countries which are economically much more advanced and no longer need our unilateral preferences. we must focus preferences on the countries most in need. secondly, if we are serious about supporting sustainable development, we have to expand opportunities for those countries which are ready and willing to implement core international conventions. thirdly, without sufficient predictability, eu importers will never make best use of the gsp and the gsp will never fulfil its potential in terms of exports and growth for the countries most in need. the commission proposal squares the circle by providing answers to these three challenges, while safeguarding the legitimate interests of eu industry and respecting wto rules. while i would have preferred to do without some aspects of the compromise reached between inta and the council presidency, i can and will support it because it strikes a realistic balance between the very many different views in this particularly complex dossier, and one that ultimately well reflects the policy priorities the commission agreed on in the first place. i therefore count on your help to support a compromise that is as realistic as it is politically important – a compromise whereby the eu will help those who need it most and those who embrace international values while respecting the interests of our industry and international law.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gsp is a strategic instrument of the european union's development policy, particularly in reducing poverty and guaranteeing human rights and good governance. the new legislative proposal aims to target the preferential import regime on developing countries that need it most, i.e. low and very low-middle-income countries. that is why, although this report is a very good compromise, i am still a little bit hungry because i believe that making access to the gsp conditional on the sole criterion of gdp per capita will penalise, or at least could penalise, small countries which are faced with high levels of poverty - i am thinking in particular of latin american countries or african countries such as gabon, for example. the committee on development felt that this criterion alone was not sufficient to make eligibility for the gsp conditional. that is why we have proposed to add the human development index. i am very sorry that this proposal has not been taken up by the inta committee. in addition, good governance and, in particular, fair and transparent tax administration, good practices against tax evasion and the fight against illicit capital flight should constitute new criteria for access to the gsp+.
mr president, commissioner, there are some good provisions in this reform. i am thinking of the emerging trading powers leaving the system, which had, it must be said, taken advantage of the existing system to the detriment of the most vulnerable countries. so it is a good thing to redirect the benefits of the system to the poorest countries. however, does not the attempt to correct the deviations of a system lead to injustice, since the application of the per capita income criterion alone would make many countries which are neither ldcs nor low-income countries, but which are fragile, liable to be penalised? i am thinking in particular of small island developing states, whose vulnerability would have justified their special status. in the end, are there not other objectives, somewhat less explicit, more unacknowledged, that would be pursued, namely to force the countries that would leave the gsp to sign free trade agreements and epas, which are not favourable to these countries and are not unanimous, to say the least?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the profound changes which our world is undergoing today, the european union must reform its system of generalised preferences. like any compromise, this one is no exception to the rule. it is satisfactory from a strictly commercial point of view, but it is far from perfect, since we must bear in mind that this regulation is aimed at developing countries. in developing its new paradigm of differentiation, the commission says it wants to refocus its action on the poorest countries. this seems to us to be entirely sustainable at first sight. to do this, the commission has nevertheless developed a strictly accounting approach based on the sole criterion of gdp per capita. the limitations of this approach are clear. what about the many middle-income developing countries with poorly diversified economies and vulnerable to climate change? the compromise reached with the council does not answer this question and that is why i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the three amendments which will be tabled on this text.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i have the impression that the british are being pleased at the moment... the european union is currently experiencing a major political and democratic crisis. its citizens have less and less trust in the institutions. the financial crisis, its economic and social consequences, and the way in which the european union has responded to it, with austerity measures, of which the people are the first victims, have only made the situation worse. once again, you have given us a fine speech, but the reality is that the european institutions are increasingly incapable of communicating and even more so of engaging in dialogue with the vast majority of citizens. do they really want to? when we hear you, we can only wonder. public consultations should be a privileged instrument of this dialogue, but the question remains how to reach european citizens as closely as possible, particularly those most affected by the proposed measures, whatever the socio-professional category of those concerned. to achieve this, the key is to speak to them in their mother tongue and at least in the official languages of the european union. but there is a slow drift in this direction. to see for yourself, simply visit the commission's official websites. more and more documents are available only in english. a few are in english and french. a few others, even fewer, are in english, french and german. translations into other languages are becoming more and more outstanding. as 2013 is set to be the european year of citizens, it is high time that this drift was stopped. we must be able to make the policies of the european union understood by all its citizens. it must be made a priority, including budgetary one. accepting answers in all languages when the information is not is hypocrisy without limit. it is really time to take this matter seriously.
madam president, commissioner, the problem of the availability of public consultations in the various languages of the european union is unfortunately not new. this is a crucial issue in my view, on which i have not only put several written questions to the european commission since 2008, but i have also personally put written questions to mr barroso. the commission must comply with the principle of equal treatment and access to information for all european citizens, as the court of first instance of the european communities recalled in its judgment of 20 november 2008. i was not at all satisfied with the european commission's reply that the public consultations do not claim to provide a fully representative picture of all views. according to this reply, the commission takes into account the fact that certain positions and views may be over-represented to the detriment of others. that's not an answer. i wonder what criteria would be used to measure an overrepresentation of the european population. if written consultations are not representative because they are available in english only, for example, they miss their purpose of consulting european citizens. thus, the result gives a wrong indication and should not be used by the european commission. if we want to keep written consultations as a tool underlying the european commission's legislative proposals, we must guarantee their democratic principle of transparency and fairness for all citizens. thus, if the commission chooses written consultations, it must take responsibility and provide the resources necessary for multilingualism and the translation of the questionnaires. in conclusion, i would like to add that multilingualism is not the only obstacle. the analysis should also take account of the short deadlines for the submission of contributions and the limited means available to the commission to communicate on these consultations, which are unfortunately mainly accessible to insiders.
mr president, i should like to speak to you about the organization of the work of our institution. parliament's votes in plenary are held mainly in strasbourg, in accordance with the treaties. additional sessions should only be held if it is not physically possible to vote on all texts in strasbourg. we can see that the agendas of our sessions in strasbourg are sadly getting empty from month to month, and the agendas of the additional sessions in brussels, on the other hand, are increasing from additional session to additional session. we have seen, for example, that in 2011 and 2012 the budget discharge was voted in brussels. this is not what is provided for in the treaties. mr president, i would like to tell you that the organisation of our legislative work has been built around the plenary sessions in strasbourg and i hope that the political groups and the administration of parliament - the administration of parliament is very important because it is the one that makes and unmakes, below the members, and i would like to remind you that it is the members who take the decisions and not always the officials - enforce the rules of operation of this, in order to respect the treaties for the proper conduct of legislative procedures.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european year of volunteering 2011 was an opportunity to highlight volunteering and to give the voluntary sector the opportunity to make valuable recommendations. i also congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on their investment in this matter. the report by mr scurria stresses the importance of ensuring access to voluntary commitment for all citizens, since everyone should have the right to contribute in his or her own way to making the areas of free and solidarity in their locality a reality. volunteering and associative action as a whole are an antidote to market distortions and the risk of exclusion of a part of the population from the benefits of basic goods and services. for our group, volunteering should not be a new activation plan with precarious jobs. the aim is to clearly differentiate the value of voluntary work from profit-making activities. we also encourage member states to recognise the rights of volunteers and to use the european charter of volunteers' rights and responsibilities as a reference point.
mr president, if you'll excuse me. the tradition is that there is one speaker per group before the other groups are multiplied. i would like to make a small protest, a kind of recall to the rules of procedure, to ask both interpreters and translators to stop at last the permanent englishism which consists in confusing the term 'volunteering' with the term 'volunteering'. "volunteer" in french, it translates to the term "volunteer". i would like to thank mr scurria for the quality of the work he has done and the way he has cooperated with all the fictitious rapporteurs. it has been a real pleasure to work on this report and i would like to stress three points in particular. there can be no true volunteers if there are no volunteer organisations. it is important, commissioner, that the commission should move towards the recognition of a european status for associations. it has made efforts for the other bodies of the social economy but we are faced with silence on the european status of associations; this cannot last. i also wanted to say that it is absolutely essential to recognise the concept of subsidies to associations, particularly in our time of budgetary restrictions, if we are to move forward and stop confusing subsidies with state aid.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i will try to keep my cool. it's not the desire to explode that i'm missing. this is provocation, mr minister, you have done more provocation this morning. but i'm keeping my cool. (applause) by unanimously deciding, against the advice of the european commission, to change the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism, the ministers of the interior have taken a decision which is absolutely unacceptable to the group of the european people's party. i would like to thank mrs malmström for her courage to the end. she didn't lie down in front of the council. (applause) mrs malmström, we need the commission in the next few days because the debates will be tough. mr president, i wonder why you did not introduce visas at the same time. you would have protected our 500 million consumers a lot more. (applause) i would like to thank by proposing this initiative you have broken the bond of trust with this parliament, because it has very dangerously broken the fundamental principle which is the community method. and you know i'm very attached to it. you attacked him and you'll find us in front of you. this principle ensures that the larger member states do not impose their will on the smaller ones. it ensures that the general european interest takes precedence over national interests. you broke that, my dear friend. this principle of the community method is guaranteed by the european parliament and the commission, and we have no intention of abandoning it. i asked the council presidency, and mrs thorning-schmidt, who is also a former member of the european parliament, to come before this parliament last thursday to explain her position. i think she should have been here this morning because the community method is important and she knows what she is talking about. the danish presidency does not have enough respect for the 500 million europeans to bother to tell them why it has denied its members the right to co-decide on such an important issue as the free movement of persons. i therefore consider that the danish presidency has ended as of the evening of 7 june. we shall address the council or the next presidency, the republic of cyprus, by midnight on 30 june. you know, to say that, i had to analyse and decide very hard, but you have broken the community method. there's no way we can do that. (applause) at a time when the economic and social crisis we are going through calls for solidarity, responsibility and respect on the part of all of us, and on the part of all national and european leaders, you have broken that respect. but the member states, by withdrawing their confidence from parliament, are going in the opposite direction to the one which will enable us to emerge from the crisis from above, namely political integration between us. the solution to our problems is not to close ourselves off within our borders. the solution is shared sovereignty, the management in common, in a spirit of mutual trust, of what we hold most dear: our freedoms. the group asks the council to reconsider its decision. that is the only way to get back into this european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by reminding you why this text is being tabled today in plenary, after its adoption by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the regulation on countries in difficulty, for which i am the rapporteur, was adopted by 25 votes to 4, with 13 abstentions. the abstentions were mainly from the socialist group, which nevertheless voted for the majority of the amendments and all the compromise amendments. it seemed to me necessary, before the negotiations, which will not be easy - and we have just heard the president's representative - to obtain a stronger mandate from the plenary. i therefore ask that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed at the appropriate time so that we can, if necessary, reach agreement at first reading. this draft regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability within the euro area is part of the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis which the european union is currently facing and will continue to face. he tries to learn from them and to suggest solutions. the commission's proposals complement the economic governance package, the six-pack, adopted by the european parliament and the council in 2011. the consequences of the over-indebtedness of states can be dramatic, both within these states and for the other member states of the european union. the problems of a small country can even have a global impact. more than existence, the reputation of the eurozone is at stake. the serious economic and social consequences that some member states are now experiencing could have been avoided if early and targeted action had been taken, but the union did not have the necessary instruments at the time, which will now be corrected by the combination of the six-pack and these two new two-pack regulations. the six-pack needs to be strengthened in order to ensure both financial stability and economic growth within the euro area. several member states had to apply for financial assistance. preventive action at an early stage is preferable to corrective action at a late stage, perhaps too late in the procedure. the text voted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs broadly echoes the original proposal, which is to provide that a member state whose currency is the euro must be subject to increased surveillance when it is experiencing or is likely to experience serious financial disturbances. the normal situation must be restored quickly and the other euro area member states must be protected against any negative consequences. to this end, the regulation sets out clear procedures for countries experiencing these difficulties. the parliamentary committee, for its part, has strengthened the powers of the european commission compared with the original proposal, in particular by providing for a wider use of reversed qualified majority rules in council votes. for example, this rule would apply when the commission recommends that corrective measures be taken by a country or when it requires new debt reduction plans to be submitted. such decisions would be deemed to have been adopted unless the council categorically rejects them. i note that the econ committee has adopted by a large majority the protection mechanism of a state in serious difficulty. i would point out that this amendment was not negotiated and that the vote was left to the discretion of each individual. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is not a question of organizing a restructuring, a reduction of the debt but of enabling the state to recover in order to meet its obligations.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, it is a pity that mr karas has left the presidency because this morning's debate reminds me of an austrian joke. the austrian writer paul watzlawick says: "die lage ist hoffnungslos aber nicht ernst". (the situation is hopeless but not serious.) it means, "the situation is hopeless, but not serious". i have the impression that the general attitude here is both to say how hopeless everything is and probably not to take seriously the need for immediate action. i would like to thank the commission once again for its efforts to improve the texts and i would also like to thank our rapporteurs for their efforts to improve them. i myself was one of the accomplices of the six-pack, so i am in full agreement that we should go in the direction of discipline and structural reforms, but the conviction that we have today is that we need urgent reforms and we need crisis management. that is why we think that the most important point in both texts is the proposal for a redemption fund - the word is very strange - let us say, at any rate, a fund which would reduce the pressure that exists - once again, i repeat it and i say it in particular to some colleagues - on countries which are making structural reforms, which are making reforms of budgetary discipline and which are again and again facing interest rates which are becoming unsustainable. discipline is based on markets. it can only work if the markets themselves reflect reality. but today there is an unhealthy and unsustainable divergence between some countries which are, in my view, being unjustly punished and others which are probably being unjustly favoured. it is the cohesion and unity of europeans that are at stake. that is why i call on all colleagues to vote for the redemption fund.
mr president, the two proposed regulations are designed to give the european commission greater powers to control national budgets and economic policies. the rules will be stricter and the failing states will be forced by the technocrats in brussels to make budget cuts and structural reforms in order to restore their financial equilibrium. this increased surveillance is called a custody arrangement. the states will be punished, fined, whipped - we can say - the financial sanctions will be strengthened and more automatic. even if some of the amendments are aimed at preventing purely budgetary austerity through growth measures, your proposals are only there to pass the pill. growth, as you and i both know, is not something that is decided. without consulting the people and with the complicity of the european parliament, we are losing our budgetary sovereignty, our freedom to choose our policies, once and for all. when, little by little, the bureaucratic, technocratic and totalitarian european state is finally established, according to the technique of the chinese thief, we shall have lost our freedom as a people altogether.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, with these two reports i believe that the important message that the european parliament can bring to your work is that of a beginning of coherence, because we can see that in the crisis in which we are sinking, in which we are sinking, we must perhaps be a little more coherent. we cannot ask a few states to do a lot and give nothing in return, and we cannot wait for the end of history to reward efforts. this is the whole point of governance and modern, intelligent governance, adapted to the reality and gravity of the crisis we are experiencing. to achieve this coherence, when we are formulating economic policies, we must take full account of what we have learned, of what we know about the weight of macroeconomic imbalances and the need to correct them. this means that the evaluation of policies must be carried out in conditions, in terms of time limits and criteria, which fully correspond to the taking into account of these macroeconomic imbalances. and then, madam president, at the european council on 28 and 29 june, the question of banking union will obviously be at the heart of the discussions and, in this connection, i believe that the message that this parliament can bring - particularly with the report by my colleague elisa ferreira - is a message of balance. a balance between something new in the council debate on the issues of growth, which we make one of the main points of mrs ferreira's report - and i hope it will be broadly supported by this house - and the management of the debt issue. it is this balance between dealing with the debt issue and the need for real growth - not just liberalisation of the internal market, but growth with long-term investment objectives - that will finally allow us to give europeans hope again.
mr president, like most of the eurozone countries, france is in the two-pack. it has just issued its last series of government bonds at historically low rates. it must restart growth to reduce its deficits and continue to benefit from these rates. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the budget, and that the council should be given the right to vote on the budget. it also supports the creation of the eurobonds needed to curb speculation. with the future of the euro at stake, the conservatives would bear a heavy responsibility if they rejected the amendments and compromises which include these two proposals. the gauzès report, by generalizing the principle of reverse qualified majority, gives all the power to the commission, whose recommendations are particularly controversial in greece but also in france and elsewhere. the democratic debate must not be closed. parliament must have a veto over commission decisions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, at this time of the year, very long speeches should be avoided. i simply wanted to tell the commissioner that i share his concern that we are moving fast and that we are thus demonstrating the effectiveness of the community method. i wanted to tell the president-in-office, who does not give a damn, that we are determined to get a substantial vote here and to start the trilogue. before the debate began this morning, there was talk of schengen and the danish presidency. i hope that you will show that you are aware of the views of this parliament on this matter.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. at the request of spain, we decided to help workers in the valencia region who had been made redundant in the footwear sector. this aid will amount to eur 1.6 million. in this time of economic crisis and increased international competition, it is essential that europe supports its businesses and its citizens!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for support for the commission's proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 146 companies in the footwear manufacturing sector in the valencia region of spain. this amount of eur 1 631 565 is in line with the objective set when the egf was set up in 2006, and was extended in 2009 by a derogation due to the crisis, to support recurrent cases of workers who suffer directly from the consequences of globalisation on the economic activity of their company. i would note, however, that the european parliament regrets the council's decision to block the extension of this 'crisis derogation' until the end of 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants the spanish region of valencia european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 876 workers made redundant in the footwear sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens above all against the vicissitudes of life!
in writing. europe and its institutions are often presented as entities that are distant from citizens, their concerns and their needs. yet the european union regularly acts to help 'disaster areas' or 'difficult situations', notably through the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this week, for example, the european parliament approved €1.6 million in aid from the egf for 'shoe workers' in the valencia region of spain, which is currently facing tough competition from asian countries and many redundancies. i voted in favour of the report. this aid is both natural and essential: europe is built on solidarity, and when one of its members is in difficulty it is normal to help him.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague salvador garriga polledo in plenary, which was supported by a large majority of 542 votes. the adoption of this report in plenary will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help spain, which is currently facing redundancies in the footwear sector. the fund was mobilised following a request from spain following redundancies in 146 firms.
in writing. the economic crisis and increased competition with manufacturers from third countries has led to a decline in the activity of shoe manufacturers in europe. eu footwear exports decreased by 16.4% between 2006 and 2009. while all european countries are affected, spain is the hardest hit: the number of shoe manufacturers fell by 36% between 2006 and 2010, with the result that more than 10,000 jobs were lost. in the valencia region, which has been hit hard by the recession, the situation of these manufacturers is particularly worrying. spain had requested in december 2011 that workers in difficulty in this region be able to benefit from the european globalisation adjustment fund. with the adoption of this resolution, we are agreeing to the release of more than 1.6 million in aid. this will help 876 former employees of 146 shoe manufacturers to find employment, through measures such as job search assistance, vocational training and support for business creation. i support this, stressing once again that support for industrial production in europe is more necessary than ever.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund was set up in 2002 and has an annual budget of €1 billion. it's been used almost 50 times. we have voted on the draft amending budget for this fund, which is so useful when natural disasters occur on our european territory.
in writing. i welcome the approval by parliament of this draft amending budget presented by the commission to help the italian regions hard hit in autumn 2011 by floods in liguria and tuscany. the european union solidarity fund, which has a budget of eur 18 061 682, has been the subject of genuine cooperation between parliament, which did not table amendments, the commission and the council, so that aid can be provided as quickly as possible to these two disaster areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision granting financial assistance to italy following the extensive damage caused by the floods that affected the italian regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011. funds not used in other programmes will be redeployed to this end, in order not to burden the 2012 budget and to ensure a reasonable and responsible use of public money. with this aid, the union is setting an example, demonstrating its ability to respond to needs and unforeseen events, while ensuring a stable budget.
in writing. the report by my colleague francesca balzani, adopted in plenary on 12 june, will mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help italy in the wake of the floods in october 2011. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. before the deadly earthquakes in italy last month, we felt it was vital to help the citizens of the regions of tuscany and liguria, which were severely affected by floods. the european union solidarity fund will enable europe to contribute €18 million to the damage. the fund, set up in 2002, has an annual budget of €1 billion. it has already been used almost 50 times to help europeans affected by disasters.
in writing. i voted for the fernandes report and for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. since 2002, the eu solidarity fund has been providing aid to victims of natural disasters. it is the concrete expression of european solidarity; it was recently used to help the italian region of abruzzo which suffered a severe earthquake in 2009. today we have once again decided to support italy, which suffered from severe flooding in tuscany and liguria in 2011. the commission is therefore proposing to release 18 million to help the people, businesses and regions affected to repair the damage caused.
in writing. the adoption of the fernandes report is a very good thing for the quickest possible repair of the significant damage suffered in the italian regions of liguria and tuscany during the severe floods in october 2011. the report supports the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to the tune of eur 18 061 682. this interinstitutional agreement is a fine example of solidarity between the member states and proves once again the strength of the community institutions' mobilisation to take concrete action in the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this decision, which allows the european union to provide financial support to italy following the extensive damage caused by the floods that hit the italian regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011. the funds will be used, among other things, to rebuild the houses. by reacting swiftly to natural disasters, the european union is showing solidarity with the people affected by them.
in writing. the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes was adopted on 12 june by 658 votes to none. it will make it possible to mobilise the solidarity fund to help spain and italy affected by severe natural disasters in liguria and tuscany. the adoption of this report will make it possible to mobilise around eur 18 million in commitment and payment appropriations in 2012. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. last october, italy was hit by extremely violent rains. the equivalent of six months of rain fell on tuscany and liguria in a matter of hours, causing unprecedented flooding. the damage caused by water, landslides and mudslides was considerable: houses were destroyed, pipes destroyed, electricity and telephone lines were cut, roads and highways were damaged, etc. the italian authorities estimated the total cost of direct damage at eur 772,5 million and requested assistance from the eu solidarity fund. through the adoption of this resolution, which i support, we are approving funding of around eur 18 million to help repair the damage caused by these floods, and in particular to enable the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure such as water, gas and electricity supply. the citizens of these regions will thus be able to return to normal living conditions and economic activities, such as tourism, will be able to resume.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. this time it is direct aid to france amounting to eur 24 493 525. as the rapporteur explains, the total number of workers to benefit from the co-financed package of personalised services is 3 582, including 1 384 redundancies at renault and seven of its suppliers between 1 april 2009 and 31 july 2009, and 2 198 other workers made redundant by the same eight companies.
in writing. i share the rapporteur, mr kozlowski, in his view that the amount allocated to the commission's initiative for technical assistance linked to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund should be reduced. the report confirms the amount of eur 730 000 decided by the council, out of the eur 1 750 000 which could theoretically be legally released, and takes a common sense position in a period when public money must be managed as efficiently as possible. i would also like to note that the rapporteur's proposal was accepted by the committee on budgets, which stressed the need to achieve the abolition of these specific funds allocated to the european commission as soon as possible.
in writing. while the european parliament and the council have since 2008 set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to provide financial support for workers made redundant for economic reasons, the text put to the vote was intended to take part of the amounts allocated for simple operational expenditure (monitoring, evaluation of the fund, communication). since this expenditure does not meet the objectives of the fund and could be borne by the commission's budget, i have chosen, in the interests of responsible management of public funds, not to approve this proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of strengthening cooperation with latin america. under the terms of the lisbon treaty, our objective is to promote sustainable economic and social development. it is important to transmit our democratic values to the world. the region includes middle-income countries that have achieved remarkable successes in reducing poverty and inequality through economic growth and political and social reforms. so while there is still much to be done in the areas of malnutrition, food security, poverty, life expectancy, etc., we need to broaden our areas of cooperation. the average growth rate of these countries is too high for us to leave them out of the picture! europe must take account of these new economic models!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the definition of a new development cooperation with latin america. as the main donor of development aid in latin america, the european union wishes to strengthen its cooperation in the region by promoting dialogue on climate change, innovation and the fight against drugs. although latin america has experienced the highest growth in recent years, the region needs to continue its efforts to consolidate the rule of law. indeed, despite progress in social justice and improved living standards, 52 million people still live on less than two dollars a day. in this sense, there are many challenges to be met in the fight against poverty and social cohesion, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the development of the private sector. it is also important to encourage social services by investing in research and innovation. this new cooperation is also intended to intensify bi-regional relations with the signing of the agreement establishing an association with central america. it also endorsed the creation of an investment mechanism for latin america and the implementation of the eu-lac foundation.
in writing. i have chosen not to support this text which proposes to devote one third of european geographical aid for cooperation and development to latin america. at a time when the countries of the european union are concerned about their low growth, or even recession, it seemed irresponsible to me to maintain a high level of funds for a region whose growth rates are far higher than ours. in the context of sound management of public funds, european development aid must be given priority to those countries which need it most!
in writing. we have been forced to decide on a reorientation of the priorities of our development cooperation with latin america. i voted in favour of mr cortés lastra's report because it stresses the need to move towards renewed cooperation with latin america. this is an opportunity for the eu to stop with the neoliberal recipes of the past. promoting growth does not lead to prosperity for all! social cohesion is of crucial importance in this process. growth and the fight against poverty cannot be systematically linked. the ep will soon be asked about its approval of the free trade agreement with colombia and peru and the association agreement with central america. they are totally contrary to the objectives of our development policy. the european commission has always had the failing to interpret development policy through the prism of international trade. it is time to reverse the logic and put policy coherence for development at the very heart of any agreement. the report stresses the need for coherence in all european policies and systematic respect for environmental and social standards, while also including civil society.
in writing. the european union is latin america's largest donor of development aid, and its largest investor and second largest trading partner. in this own-initiative report, parliament has chosen to define a new form of development cooperation which now takes account of the situation in each country and is based on broader indicators than income levels, such as economic and technological progress and the echo poverty, vulnerability and crisis index. i supported this report in plenary, and it was adopted by a large majority. i'm glad you did.
in writing. the eu is latin america's largest donor of development aid, largest investor and second largest trading partner. latin america was less badly hit by the economic and financial crisis than the european economies: +4.5% growth forecast for 2012. unfortunately, there are still 180 million people living below the poverty line in latin america. the definition of a new cooperation with latin america was therefore important, in particular by modifying the instruments of aid to this cooperation. the emphasis, as the rapporteur recommends, should be on phasing out bilateral aid to middle-income countries in order to increase aid to low-income countries. in view of the humanitarian and health situation in the countries of latin america, it is essential to re-prioritize the essential services of education, training, hygiene and health, which have been abolished by the european commission. finally, as a driving force for the future of this cooperation, regional policies must be stimulated in order to adjust budgetary and fiscal policies. my vote in favour of this report is a reminder of the need to reorient regional cooperation policies on urgent health and humanitarian issues.
in writing. the mobility of our businesses, citizens and children across the european union must not be hampered by red tape and language barriers. i therefore voted in favour of a report which aims to facilitate the practice of crossborder volunteering. an incredible opportunity for exchange and learning, volunteering can also be a growth factor, as it already represents almost 5% of the european union's gdp. we had to recognize and value the practice of volunteering!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. as the 'year of volunteering', 2011 was an opportunity for the commission and the european parliament to study the challenges of volunteering activities in europe. as an indispensable tool for active support of society, volunteering brings the principles of solidarity and democracy to life in europe. voluntary activities account for 5% of world gdp and thus represent a real added value for european policies. it is therefore our duty to promote this sector in the future, to adopt a clear legal framework and to simplify administrative procedures. in this sense, i support the various actions proposed, including the creation of a centralised european portal on volunteering and the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps. one of the key measures in this report is the development of a european skills passport. it seems to me important to value the personal and professional skills acquired during these civic engagements. in addition, in order to facilitate crossborder volunteering activities, i believe that our action should be complemented by the development of a european statute for associations.
in writing. 100 million is the number of european citizens engaged in voluntary activities. in 2011, europe put them at the forefront of the european year of voluntary activities for the promotion of active citizenship. in 2012, the european parliament continued to act to promote their development and remove obstacles to their activities. that is the aim of this report, and that is why i voted in favour of it. one of the key measures he is proposing is the 'european skills passport'. the skills, competences and professional qualifications acquired through volunteering will now be better recognised, and this across europe.
in writing. europeans who wish to embark on international volunteering too often face paperwork or language barriers. it is, however, an incredible opportunity for citizens to exchange and learn. volunteering affects nearly 100 million europeans and contributes to almost 5% of the eu's gdp. the linguistic and technical difficulties faced by european citizens wishing to volunteer must therefore be overcome. new, effective and innovative tools need to be developed, such as a european portal that centralises all volunteering offers and the recognition of qualifications acquired. and finally, there can be no volunteer without organization. the commission must therefore move towards the recognition of a european status for associations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen and facilitate crossborder volunteering and to reduce the administrative, legal and linguistic barriers to volunteering. in this report we call on the member states to set national objectives for volunteering and to recognise the rights of volunteers, in particular by establishing a european statute for volunteering. our report also suggests the setting up of an online information portal on volunteering issues. 100 million european citizens are currently engaged in volunteering activities! volunteering is an incredible opportunity for exchange and learning, and cross-border volunteering has great potential for education, employment and citizenship, to improve mutual understanding and to contribute to the development of a stronger european identity. volunteering is one of the ways of living an active european citizenship and, as the only french region neighbouring three other member states, i am very attached to it.
in writing. the european parliament in plenary session in strasbourg voted today by a large majority on my colleague marco scurria's report on crossborder volunteering activities in the eu. today 22.6% of young people are looking for a job in the european union. we know that the first difficulty for them is getting their first job, often rejected on the grounds of lack of experience. yet, many are involved in volunteer work. the technical and human skills they acquire in their humanitarian, cultural or sporting commitments are also assets on the labour market or for validating certain university courses. it is in this context that the scurria report calls for a european status for volunteering, official recognition of qualifications acquired through volunteering and the creation of a skills passport that is valid throughout the eu.
in writing. volunteering is a fundamental citizen commitment to democratic vitality. why stop it and restrict it? it is essential to facilitate volunteering activities, whether national or cross-border, by establishing a clear legal framework and simplified visa procedures for volunteers fulfilling all the conditions defined by the member states.
in writing. volunteering is an essential tool for promoting active support from society. it acts as a catalyst for greater social integration. studies also show that the development of volunteering could help to increase european gdp by 5%. however, there are still many obstacles to volunteering in the european union. i voted in favour of mr scurria's report, which proposes concrete actions to promote crossborder volunteering activities in the european union. for example, the creation of a european portal, which would allow for more effective cooperation between organisations active in the field of volunteering and encourage the dissemination of best practices. or the creation of a european skills passport, which could be very useful as each volunteer could have their skills acquired through volunteering recognised throughout the european union.
in writing. following the european year of volunteering, it seems to me essential that the european parliament also takes a step forward to make european volunteering a reality. volunteers contribute so much to cultural and environmental activities, to social and local missions, that the need to support them is undeniable. but they still face many difficulties. three out of four europeans think that there should be more volunteering programmes. i therefore supported this report, which proposes the setting up of an ambitious european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which will train volunteers and send them on local missions. on the other hand, we are calling for the creation of a european skills passport which will allow for real recognition of volunteering. encouraging european volunteering also means encouraging european growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and fighting youth unemployment. the technical and human skills they acquire are valuable assets on the labour market or for validating certain university courses. finally, volunteering helps to strengthen our sense of citizenship and our european identity for all.
in writing. a few months after the closure of the european year of volunteering (2011), parliament has just adopted a report on volunteering, almost unanimously, which is rather rich in terms of findings and proposals. i welcome the fact that many of my amendments have been incorporated, in particular the one reiterating the request for a european statute for associations after the long silence of the commission on this matter, and i ask for a clarification of the concept of subsidies to associations in order to provide financial support to associations, often the first victims of budgetary restrictions. one regret is the rejection by a large majority of members of the house of the proposal to abolish visas for volunteers. the same ridiculous anti-immigrant obsession, when the european parliament did not want to impose any obligations in this area. we should be pleased that the possibility of relaxing these visas has nevertheless been maintained.
cyberattacks are no longer just found in the movie "the matrix", they are a reality today and especially in europe. i voted in favour of a report on the protection of computer infrastructures. it covers a number of topics, cybercrime, data protection, but also the protection of our children. minimum standards of resilience are needed today!
in writing. the kalfin report on the protection of critical information infrastructures has received my support. the exponential development of the internet has made it an indispensable element of citizens' daily lives and economic activity. it is therefore essential for the european union to place the digital strategy at the heart of its political priorities. the report perfectly underlines the paramount issue of cybersecurity. in this context, parliament rightly calls for the establishment of a system of cooperation and international standards, and the development of a comprehensive, responsive, flexible and innovative long-term framework to ensure proper interaction between different internet users and to establish a system for reporting security breaches in critical sectors. it is also in this spirit that i joined parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in writing. the internet is now at the heart of the lives of citizens and businesses alike. for its safe use, we need a robust digital environment. this report proposes concrete measures to improve the security, prevention of attacks and resilience of this crucial structure of our economy. i therefore voted in favour of it. i particularly support the report's approach to linking internet security and user trust. his proposal to raise awareness among european citizens about digital security issues through events, guidelines, advice and education and training initiatives seems essential to me.
in writing. while the internet and telecommunications are vast spaces for exchange and discovery, and promising sources of growth and jobs for the economies of tomorrow, they also pose a real security challenge, given the threats to the data they disseminate. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which supports the strengthening of the european union's policy on 'cybersecurity', for a safer internet and communications, for the benefit of our citizens, our consumers and our businesses!
in writing. the report by my colleague, mr ivailo kalfin, was adopted by 573 votes in favour, 90 against and 26 abstentions. this is an own-initiative report in response to the commission's 2011 communication on the protection of critical information infrastructures (piic), which takes stock and describes the next steps. the european parliament, in its own initiative report, calls for measures to protect the internet, including the prevention of cyberattacks and the resilience of the global network. it also called for the establishment of a system for reporting security breaches in critical sectors and for the resilience of the internet to be strengthened. i supported this report in the plenary during the vote on 12 june.
in writing. as cybercrime continues to increase, it is essential to protect critical information infrastructures and ensure an adequate level of information security. security must be at the heart of our concerns so that technological advances can be fully benefited. for example, member states should have national response plans in place in the event of computer incidents.
in writing. i have endorsed the idea of the joint purchase of energy raw materials by the member states. today, competition for energy resources and monopolies in the field of production pose important problems. energy cooperation in europe and beyond our borders must be deepened. for the rapporteur edit herczog, a better exchange of information is imperative. the major foreign energy suppliers have their own information on the consumption of european countries, while we ourselves have no idea what our neighbours consume. such knowledge would, however, strengthen our position as a buyer on the international market. we need new legislation on the provision and processing of this kind of information, which naturally must remain confidential.
in writing. seeking to build a strategy for a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply is a good intention. despite this proposal, i have decided to vote against this report. this is mainly because one paragraph deals with shale gas, whereas in france i am one of those who are firmly opposed to the granting of licences for the exploration of shale gas. the only technique used to date, hydraulic fracturing, poses irreversible problems and global threats to the environment, especially to our drinking water supplies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a very good one.
in writing. a strategic approach is urgently needed to ensure a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply. the decline in the eu's internal fossil fuel resources will increase the union's dependence on energy imports, despite the growing contribution of renewable sources, energy efficiency and research in energy technologies. i support a common external energy policy based on solidarity. we need to step up our diversification and rethink our strategic cooperation with the major energy producing countries. ensuring the security of supply of the european union would strengthen the union's capacity to act in foreign policy matters and its credibility as a global actor, in particular in the field of climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to find solutions to consolidate the internal energy market. the european union needs to create a broader regulatory framework and to emphasise key concepts such as sustainability, energy sustainability, better coordination between european networks and diversification of suppliers, sources and supply routes. i note that this report was the subject of a full agreement between the epp, the socialists and the liberals.
in writing. our energy needs are immense and growing. and much of that energy has to be imported. energy security is a challenge we must face together. this report contributes to the debate on the need for and how to develop ambitious common external action in the field of energy. i welcome the emphasis on relations with the countries of the caspian sea region, and in particular with azerbaijan. the country is very open to the infrastructure projects we want to develop in the region and to a constantly strengthened trade, energy and political partnership.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which supports a coordinated and effective foreign policy of the member states of the european union on energy supply. by speaking with one voice, the european union will be stronger in securing its supplies against trading partners who have, in the past, sometimes used energy as a political weapon. it will also be stronger in influencing the level of prices offered, and thus better defend the interests of our consumers.
in writing. on this roadmap for energy cooperation with third countries, the greens secured amendments, notably on reducing import dependence with increased deployment of renewable energy, on the need to align with long-term climate and energy policy objectives, on the need to ensure sustainable energy supply at local level in developing countries and on the need to be more skeptical of the use of biofuels. however, i could not vote for this report, which promotes shale gas and tar sands and supports projects such as iter.
in writing. the report by my colleague edit herczog aims to suggest ways of improving the internal energy market. the report calls for the extension of links between european energy networks and neighbouring countries and the creation of a broader regulatory framework. in order to improve the coherence and stability of the european external energy policy, parliament also suggested the creation of a strategic grouping for international energy cooperation to enable regular coordination between the member states, the commission and the council. finally, the report emphasises key concepts such as better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability/viability and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries.
in writing. as the world's largest energy importer, the time has come for the european union to define a european energy policy to effectively guide the use of energy, both within and beyond our borders. the report focuses on key concepts such as better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability/viability, and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries. the emphasis is on important areas such as major energy networks and infrastructures, strategic dialogues and international partnerships. it is also important to be able to exchange information, with the establishment of a platform that would enable such exchanges, and to know about european and third country projects in the field of energy. my vote in favour of this report is in support of one very important aspect: the improvement of cooperation with third countries in the fields of energy and infrastructure. this multilateral cooperation will aim at strengthening partnerships with third countries in several areas, from innovation and research to the construction of reliable networks and facilities ensuring a diversified supply for the european union.
in writing. the eu's energy security is a strategic and vital issue: the union is poor in natural resources and is heavily dependent on its external partners for its energy supply. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for large-scale energy infrastructure interconnected with neighbourhood networks. this is the whole purpose of the future transeuropean energy networks. i also believe that the union should encourage and support cooperation with its partners on innovative projects such as the mediterranean solar plan or desertec. strengthening coordination with our partners, promoting the diversification of our energy mix, both its composition and our suppliers, and ensuring energy sustainability are all guarantees of a policy that meets the needs of european citizens and businesses. partnership with third countries is essential, and i supported the creation of the strategic grouping for international energy cooperation. it is now up to us to develop an ambitious cooperation component, particularly to ensure the ecological transition: if we want to green our economy, but our energy depends on our partners, then we must convince them to develop clean and renewable energy. this is how this partnership will be a win-win for europeans, third countries and our planet.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, first of all, a regret, madam high representative. i regret the absence of a non-english language version of a document of over 300 pages sent at the last minute. these are not good working conditions. this report is still a long list, and it is probably a forced exercise. there are some positive things, some improvements, but there is still a lot of work to be done. some examples: still a lot of "double standards" in the examples cited, prisms a little distorting. why not talk about the human rights violations in all the countries of south america? why not denounce the murders of trade unionists in mexico and colombia and the impunity enjoyed by their killers? why not denounce the discrimination against the kurds in turkey? leyla zana, sakharov prize winner, has just been sentenced to death. why not give as much attention to the freedom not to believe as to the freedom to believe? non-believers are often the first victims of religious fundamentalism, but they are not in the statistics. finally, the arab spring and the example of tunisia. an additional 150 million is ridiculous in the face of the stakes when we know that tunisia has a colossal debt of 17 billion euros - much of it odious debt - and that it pays back more than 300 million every year, much of it to the european union. millions of "benalistas" are still frozen because they were taken from public funds. and two million are for local development, whereas this is the heart of the problem and where the needs of tunisians are the most colossal and this is the main cause of the tunisian revolution. economic and social rights are just as important as civil and political rights.
madam president, the european union has always ratified international agreements on the trade in military weapons. in another area, recently, but in this house, we adopted the application of article 10 of the united nations protocol on combating terrorism, which dealt with the trade in arms. the union has always been committed to combating the illegal trade in arms. however, the activity of this sector - let us not forget - is in the hands of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are impacted by logistical, financial and administrative constraints. it is now time for third countries to commit themselves to a better application of the rules of security and peace for the benefit of their citizens. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to do so.
mr president, when i hear you, mrs ashton, i am not so sure about the european union's capacity to act. frankly, to make yet another appeal to the opposition to unite, to make yet another list of the risks of the situation that are already proven and quite present: regionalization, militarization, communitization ... these risks are also the result of the failure of the international community to provide timely support to a people in revolt against a dictator. i believe that the situation is now so complex and difficult that there is no longer a good solution. but the cost of inaction will be even greater. that is to say, in three months' time we shall have another debate and you will see with us that militarisation, communitisation and regionalisation have increased still further. so we have to act and there is no good solution. we are almost in a dilemma, faced with the need and the obligation to protect the people, of having to choose whether we should violate international law by bypassing the security council. but we are forced to put all the solutions on the table. i heard mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, he spoke of the presence of a force on the ground. i also heard my colleague franziska brantner. these solutions must be studied. it's absolutely urgent. i have to go. then, we have to put pressure on russia because russia, i assure you, is very comfortable. today in france, the largest arms manufacturer is exhibiting itself at an international arms fair in villepinte with impunity. i have not heard anyone at european level, in france or yourself, argue against this. so i think russia feels absolutely not threatened. it's the carrot and stick with russia, we all know that. what did you bring up in your discussions?
mr president, madam high representative, we cannot count the horror, but today we have over 10 000 dead and over 40 000 displaced persons in syria. the annual un report on children in armed conflict released this morning confirms our worst fears. there's a truth to this. the strategy for getting out of the crisis is not effective, despite the mobilization of many countries and international organizations. the sanctions adopted by the european union against the regime of bashar al-assad and the €23 million released by the commission are concrete actions. but this mobilisation of goodwill alone is no longer enough. we know russia is blocking the security council. in the long term, reform of this body could be the way to limit these blockages. but in the meantime, how do we put pressure on moscow? russia's foreign policy is primarily concerned with defending its commercial interests. as evidence, the volume of trade between russia and syria has increased from 220 million to 2 billion dollars per year in the past five years. so, madam high representative, i ask you the question. perhaps there is a way out of the diplomatic impasse by taking other avenues such as pressure or economic sanctions on moscow. can this option be considered?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the last elections were held in a dramatic context, unworthy of a democracy, even a nascent one, madam high representative. mrs nedelcheva reported on the european union's electoral mission. i very much share his analysis and, above all, his tribute to the congolese people. provincial and local elections are due to take place soon and the question of the european union's support for this process must be addressed. if no lessons are learned from the regime's abuses, the european union cannot continue to support them. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about the symbol that mr floribert chebeya has become. not only is his killer still at large, but he's an officer in the congolese armed forces. his family can't appeal. democracy is also justice, the fight against impunity.
mr president, commissioner, the electoral process in the drc, as has been said, has been marked by a lack of transparency and credibility caused by numerous irregularities and fraud. more importantly, the drc is facing a real human tragedy. the security and humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate. it is important to note that more than two million people are displaced, 4.5 million people live in extremely vulnerable conditions and more than one million children suffer from malnutrition in a country that is so rich in resources. according to the un humanitarian coordinator, the actors on the ground are sorely lacking in financial resources. wfp has reduced its rations and the high commissioner for refugees has had to close some of its offices. yes, the european union must support the efforts of the congolese authorities, regional organisations and humanitarian and development actors. yes, the international community must maintain a high level of commitment to promoting peace, security, democracy and good governance, which are the preconditions for development, but also for the drc in the long term. but, finally, the european union's assistance, in order to be complete and effective, must be in support of a strategy and political will on the part of the congolese authorities.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam president, if the nato summit decides to leave afghanistan, it also decides the defeat of the western countries. when you compare the statements of nato and the council with the information coming from afghan civil society and ngos, it seems that we are talking about two different countries: the return of the taliban, who are impatient to impose themselves on the whole country and take revenge on those who collaborated with the west. i am thinking of course of women and i remember how, in 2001, the cause of afghan women was used to justify a military intervention that the population had not requested. after the bombing and destruction, they were promised reconstruction, peace and democracy. it's a failure. according to minister eftekhari, six million children are suffering from extreme poverty, abuse and violence. under pressure from the taliban, schools are burned, teachers are threatened and killed. nearly 550 girls' schools have closed in 11 provinces. young people are fleeing the country to join this promising west. we need not dwell on the welcome or rather the lack of welcome they receive in europe: a shame! pakistan and iran have also decided to deport hundreds of thousands of afghan refugees to their countries. given the european union's commitment to the afghan people, are we prepared, mrs ashton, at the level of the council and the eeas, to adopt a plan to help and welcome refugees? will we support and welcome the threatened teachers, the activists and the activists for women's rights, all those who have trusted us and who will have to choose...
mr president, madam high representative, almost ten years after the start of the military intervention in afghanistan, it is clear that the situation on the ground remains extremely uncertain. the efforts of the international community have failed to put an end to the taliban insurgency and peace and stability in afghanistan have still not been achieved. france has just lost four soldiers - and four more - in a suicide attack in kapisa province. this strategy highlights the fact that there is no obvious end in sight in afghanistan. i am concerned about an early withdrawal of combat troops by the end of 2012, which is both tactically difficult and felt by our allies to be disloyal. i would like to congratulate the european military personnel who have done a great job of training the afghan army. in december 2010, the european parliament adopted a very clear report on the strategy to be adopted in afghanistan, focusing on four priority areas for action, including police training, the coordination of international aid and the elimination of poppy cultivation. it is an angle of attack that i fully support, but i warn the international community against a premature withdrawal from afghanistan.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for the support they have given to the work we are seeking to do concerning tibet. we have taken the opportunity to raise these issues at all of the high-level political meetings we have with our chinese counterparts, as well as making several démarches to express our anxiety not only about the situation in tibet, but also about individual cases of concern. we have been asking to visit the region inhabited by tibetans, but in an unrestricted way, because for reasons that you will appreciate, that is what we would wish to do. these concerns have been raised at our summits. they have been raised, as i have indicated, at the human rights dialogue. we have had démarches on tibet at the end of last year and this year, and we expressed our concern at the human rights council in early march. i can assure honourable members that we will continue to raise those concerns and continue to pick up the issues, as i described at the beginning and as honourable members have done, about individuals, about the nomadic life, about language and culture, which are so important to the people of tibet.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the european council meeting on 28 and 29 june is due to take important decisions on measures to help stimulate economic growth and employment. this is a key element of our overall strategy to ensure that europe emerges from the current situation with increased growth and a stronger economic basis. to put it very simply, europe needs growth and europe needs jobs. the informal meeting of heads of state on 23 may, as well as the informal general affairs council meeting on 10 and 11 june, paved the way for the preparation of a comprehensive package of measures as part of the growth initiative for europe. i would like to point to some of the various elements that can be included in this package. on economic policy, job creation is a priority for all of us. growth is not enough in itself. it must lead to new jobs and we need to do more. the council welcomes the commission’s employment package, which certainly contains many interesting ideas, not least to promote youth employment and labour mobility. let me also give a couple of concrete examples of how some of the proposals already on the table can boost employment. first, adoption of the energy efficiency directive can create up to 400 000 new jobs. second, new trade agreements with third countries may create about two million new jobs, and a reform of the single market will create even more millions of jobs. as you know, there are roughly the same number of unemployed people across europe as we have small and medium-sized enterprises. if we could only create one more job in each of these smes, we would have taken a giant step towards addressing the unemployment issue. the danish presidency has been committed to making progress on all legislative files which have the potential to deliver growth and employment. on a number of dossiers we have advanced well and i would like to take this opportunity to thank parliament for a very constructive partnership with the presidency on this agenda. this applies, for instance, to the case of roaming regulation and standardisation, where the council has been able to reach agreement with the european parliament. we are also on track on issues such as venture capital and social entrepreneurship. the june european council will also conclude the european semester through the endorsement of country-specific recommendations set out by the commission in its proposal of 30 may. our objective is to guide member states in their structural reforms, employment policies and national budgets with the overall aim of ensuring that fiscal consolidation and growth go hand in hand. i would like to thank parliament for the way in which it has offered strong support for the growth and employment agenda, as its motions for resolutions confirm. we also need to step up efforts to boost the financing of the economy. i am very pleased that the council and parliament were able to agree on the project bond pilot phase which will start this summer. the commission has also proposed a eur 10 billion increase in paid-in capital to the eib as part of a new eu growth initiative. furthermore, efforts should be made regarding better targeting of structural funds to foster growth and convergence. the commission will report on this issue later this month. another key element to our growth agenda is external economic policy. the european council will discuss how the union can better use a trade and investment relationship with key partners as an engine for growth. the second major item on the june european council agenda is the multiannual financial framework (mff). as you know, the mff package is a top priority for us, and from the very beginning of our presidency we have been aiming to make as much progress as possible on this dossier. we based our work on the mandate given to us by the december 2011 european council, and that is to press ahead with the work aimed at developing a basis for the final stage of negotiations to be discussed at the june european council. we have taken this mandate very seriously. while the aim of the presidency has not been to reach a final compromise on this package, all our efforts are directed towards preparing the ground for a first serious and substantial discussion in june and delivering a fully integrated negotiating box containing all the elements for the final agreement, which should help lead to the adoption of the mff at the end of this year. the mff dossier constitutes a great opportunity to make the eu budget respond better to today’s and tomorrow’s challenges and needs. it is also essential that the next mff is fully geared towards growth and job-enhancing policies. in putting the box together we have listened carefully to delegations in council meetings. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank parliament’s representatives who have taken part in our work. we have excellent cooperation with the representatives of parliament, and before every meeting at which the mff has been on the agenda, we have met with parliament’s representatives, we have told ministers what parliament’s views are and we have also met afterwards. it is also important to stress – and i want to make this very clear – that we must, of course, all follow the legislative procedures laid down in the treaty, including with regard to codecision. it is also important to say that there is no final deal before there is agreement between the council and parliament. in order to ensure further progress in the mff negotiations, thereby fulfilling the mandate given by the european council in december, the presidency has put forward a proposal regarding the structure of the budget, including the placement of instruments that the commission has proposed to place outside the mff. it is very important for me to say today that this proposal on the structure of the mff only relates to the placement of instruments. it does not in any way prejudge the size of the budget or decision-making procedures for those instruments, nor does it prejudge the expenditure level for the headings in which some of those instruments are included. therefore, the presidency’s proposal does not entail a reduction in the budget or in the degree of flexibility in the commission’s proposal. the point of departure for the presidency is that the proposed amounts for these instruments are transferred, with the instruments, into the relevant headings. just two days ago we had a very fruitful discussion on this proposal for a balanced package and structure at the informal general affairs council meeting in horsens in denmark. i was particularly pleased that members of the european parliament were present and gave us very useful input in this regard. i noted the emphasis that the european parliament put on ensuring a transparent budget where as many expenditure items as possible are subject to the community method. as a final note, i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the good cooperation between parliament and the council on this dossier.
president of the commission. − mr president, you have invited me to prepare the next european council with you, and to discuss the economic situation and the multiannual financial framework (mff). i welcome this choice of topics. the mff is indeed a crucial part of our response to the challenges we face, as it is a tool for investing in jobs and growth, while reinforcing stability. we are now in a defining moment for european integration and for the european union. we are seeing that even when governments are taking the right steps towards reform, they can be negatively impacted by events beyond their control, or by the lack of a decisive and comprehensive long-term response. we must recognise that we have a systemic problem and we need to articulate the vision of where we need to go, and also a very concrete path for how to get there. i am not sure whether the urgency of this is fully understood in all the capitals. the commission has always maintained that a combination of immediate measures with medium and long-term steps is part of the comprehensive response we need to overcome the crisis. this was precisely the multi-track approach we developed further in our communication of 30 may. the european union has proven time and again that it is capable of taking immediate measures when necessary. just last week, the euro area member states, the commission and the ecb decided unanimously to support spain in its effort to recapitalise its banking sector. this has again proven wrong those critics who say that we do not tackle our problems. on the contrary, our ability to react quickly shows our determination to tackle them head on. however, we also need the perspective of the medium and long term. in the medium term we must continue to implement what has been agreed, from the programme for greece – and let me state here again that i believe greece should stay in the euro area, assuming that it respects its commitments – to our proposals to address the more systemic issues, from setting up financial backstops, proposing initiatives for growth and reforming the financial sector to building a real economic union for the future, namely through the steps that we have been taking on economic governance – the ‘six-pack’, which this parliament has already approved, and the ‘two-pack’ that i hope we will also endorse today. we have been making progress on all of these areas, but i believe that more should be done. for the longer term, i will urge the european council to take concrete commitments towards a fully developed economic and monetary union and a process that maps out the steps to take to get there. more than ever, we need a strong ambition for europe – ambition for the structural reforms that we need now, and ambition for the deeper economic and monetary union that we need to build in the medium and longer term. the european council will focus on growth. i will urge it to endorse a decisive commitment towards sustainable and jobs-rich growth. this growth can only come from a combination of sound public finances, deep structural reforms and targeted investment. at national level, at the end of the second european semester, i am encouraged that member states have clearly taken last year’s country-specific recommendations seriously, at least more seriously than in the previous year. great efforts have been made to implement last year’s recommendations. but more needs to be done. to supplement national action on jobs and growth, the european level should also be playing its part, and indeed it is playing its part. on unemployment, the biggest social challenge we face, the commission has taken a number of measures, including refocusing structural funds, our youth employment initiative and adopting a major employment package, which i presented to you here in april. implementation on the ground is very much in the hands of the member states, and i will continue to urge them at the european council to take the social emergency situation very seriously. in some of our countries we have worrying developments in terms of the rise of poverty and social exclusion. on growth, the european council should agree a growth initiative, building on the ideas we have put forward and which were well received at the informal european council of 23 may. this includes a number of elements. first, the reprogramming of structural funds, focusing them on growth and competitiveness. second, boosting investment at european level through increasing the lending capacity of the european investment bank, and project bonds – ideas i set out to in this house for the first time in my state of the union address in september last year. now – it was about time! – they are building momentum. two weeks ago we agreed on our project bonds proposal to unlock up to eur 4.6 billion in a pilot phase and i expect a clear decision on the eib at the next european council. third, we need to realise the full potential of the single market. i would like to see swift approval in the council and the european parliament for the measures of the single market act 1, and the commission will, moreover, present a single market act 2 in the autumn. as you know, just last week we presented a communication on the governance of the single market and how to reinforce it, as well as an analysis of the implementation of the services directive. i believe that if the heads of state and government agree to these strategic orientations set out in this growth initiative, we should go further in cementing this approach. many of the decisions that we need in order to deliver results must be taken by the european parliament and the council together. that is why, today, i want to propose that we conclude an interinstitutional agreement on the growth initiative. given the urgency of the situation, it is important to prioritise key decisions. an interinstitutional agreement would set a fast timetable and get things moving. it would also be a strong message about our partnership – the partnership between parliament, the council and the commission. it would also be a strong message about our determination for growth in the european union. moreover, it would ensure the required democratic legitimacy and involvement of the european parliament, without whom we cannot advance and without which the commission does not want to advance. on these issues that are so necessary and relevant to our citizens, it is indeed unthinkable that this directly-elected body that is an expression of european democracy, could be sidelined. (applause) on the matter of growth, it is highly appropriate that you singled out the european union’s future budget to debate today. quick adoption of the mff would send an immediate signal that europe is ready to invest in its future, that we are really serious about growth. it would send a strong message on our commitment to stability and responsibility, given the clear link we have proposed between the mff and the european semester of budgetary coordination. in other words, adoption of the mff is a key stepping stone towards the deepening of economic and monetary union, and towards sustainable growth in europe as a whole. however, the path ahead will not be easy. with reduced spending power at home, some member states view the mff as an extravagance to be minimised, and a potential source of savings to repatriate. this is a great mistake. our budget is a budget for investment and for growth and i believe that we all agree that in current times we need to combine stability and growth. we need to dispel the myth that the eu budget is a budget for ‘brussels’, for the eu structures or institutions. no – the eu budget is money for our regions, our cities, our rural areas. it is money for our citizens, our students, our workers, our entrepreneurs, our scientists, our farmers, our innovators. it is money for the unemployed and those who are afraid of being unemployed. it is money for the future of europe and for all those who want to have a future in europe. we have a strategy for growth – europe 2020 – and indeed we are preparing new initiatives for growth. the important issue now is to link the mff and the programmes under the future budget with our overall growth strategy. if we agree that for growth, targeted public investment is necessary to complement structural reforms, then this needs to be reflected in our budget. in many of our member states, eu funds are the biggest and most stable source of public investment. just as an example, since 2009, cohesion policy has been equivalent to 97 % of total public investment in hungary, 78 % in lithuania, and over 50 % in poland. what would the situation in these countries be without the contribution of the european budget? it has provided stability in times of crisis, but also flexibility in times of need. these figures show that the european union budget has a major impact for growth. at the same time, the mff is in line with sound public finances. at around 1 % of eu gdp and less than 2.5 % of all public spending in the european union, the eu budget is focused on priorities, and indeed its impact on deficit positions of member states is minor. a cut of the commission’s proposal by ‘at least eur 100 billion’ over the seven-year period, as some member states are proposing, would have an effect of 0.084 % of the eu gdp on public finances and deficits. this is an amount that certainly does not make or break sound public finances in europe! thus the proposed financial framework for 2014-2020 is an essential piece of a medium- to long-term european growth and competitiveness agenda. the new rules governing eu spending will ensure that smart fiscal consolidation, investment funding and structural fund reforms will go together. the proposed new own resources, including the financial transaction tax, will improve transparency and provide new opportunities for fiscal consolidation and growth. this is the best recipe for growth in europe. can our project be improved? certainly, and we are very open to listen to proposals. that being said, i am also concerned with some ideas that threaten to unbalance what we have proposed. take the idea to squeeze all the ‘off-budget items’ into the budget, from iter to gmes. i fear that this will ultimately lead to further pressure on our margin for growth-oriented investments. i fear that this will endanger the other programmes in the different headings, from competitiveness to cohesion. i can assure you: for all items outside the mff, the european parliament will keep its full institutional prerogatives through the normal annual budget procedure. i hope that parliament’s resolution on the mff will take this into account. we are now approaching the phase when the big strategic questions will be considered. while figures matter, we first need a serious look at design, modernisation and simplification, as well as the added value of the budget. in this, the commission shares plenty of common ground with parliament, which will adopt a resolution tomorrow. we will continue to press for parliament’s early involvement in the negotiations, as the outcome will have major implications for the union’s ability to generate growth, to demonstrate solidarity and to deliver on its common europe 2020 objectives. i know that these will not be easy negotiations, but we are defending – and will continue to defend – our proposals very robustly. at the core of this european council will also be a discussion on the building blocks for the future of economic and monetary union. as you know, the european council asked its president, in close cooperation with the president of the commission, the president of the european central bank and the president of the euro group, to prepare a report that should propose a way forward. this report will be the start, not the end, of a process – a process that will be vital for anchoring our current efforts to ensure stability and growth in the longer term and a process in which the european parliament should be involved from the early stages. let me be clear: member states must pursue the deep structural reforms that are indispensible for europe’s competitiveness and growth immediately. the longer term vision should not be seen as a substitute for those reforms, and national leaders must leave no doubt about this. but without confidence in the irreversibility of economic and monetary union, our prospects are limited. therefore, we need a clear and credible commitment to a vision for the deepening of the union, combined with a process which maps out the main steps towards this goal. the process should generate a progressive dynamic. it would start with steps that could and should be taken immediately, leading to medium and longer term steps which might require treaty changes. greater solidarity and greater responsibility must go hand in hand. each step towards further solidarity would be accompanied by a corresponding step towards greater responsibility, and vice-versa. such a commitment will send a clear signal that the member states and the eu institutions consider economic and monetary union and the euro as indispensable assets for europe’s future. the main building blocks include moving towards a banking union and a fiscal union. the timing and nature of the process will vary for each building block. some elements will require a higher degree of political integration with, in parallel, measures to ensure increased accountability and democratic legitimacy. to this end, the whole process must have the community method as its guiding principle to ensure ever greater coherence both on principles and on methods and instruments. here, a fundamental point needs to be made. the commission believes that it is essential to pursue this process as far as possible with all member states. we advocate further integration within the euro area. it is now evident that this is indispensible for the sustainability of our common currency, and we are happy to see that also outside the euro area, in europe and outside europe, there is now a consensus that we need further integration in the euro area. but under no circumstances must this be seen as an alternative to the integrity of the single market, or indeed the integrity of the union as a whole. it must be seen as a mutually reinforcing process. our economic relations bind us all: euro area members and non-euro members alike, our futures are linked. this is why the treaties are clear – and i have to say this because the commission is the guardian of the treaties – there is only one union; there is only one european parliament; there is only one european commission. this is so because fragmentation is not an option. financial stability and economic prosperity through economic and monetary union, and within it through the euro as common currency, are common goals – for those who are already in the common currency as much as for those who are preparing to join it. we must recognise that some countries do have opt-outs. these opt-outs must be taken into appropriate account in the future architecture. but they remain the exception, not the rule. those who wish to advance must be able to do so. but enhanced cooperation or properly circumscribed derogations can allow for this without creating a risk to the integrity of the european union. let me now briefly sketch out the main building blocks. financial integration is one area where major progress could quickly be made, even without treaty changes. thus, the creation of a banking union appears as a natural priority. i see two major steps. first, we should accelerate the adoption of proposals already on the table. that means adopting the commission’s proposal for a single rulebook – the capital requirements rules – and beyond that, the proposals we have made concerning deposit guarantees and bank resolution, including provisions to introduce solidarity via obligatory mutual lending between national funds. second, by autumn, the commission could be ready to come forward with key proposals to introduce more integrated banking supervision and common deposit guarantee and resolution funds. the full benefits from deepening the economic and monetary union and from creating the banking union can, however, only be reaped with the development of the fiscal union. here, the immediate step is building on the effective coordination of fiscal and economic policies through the european semester, including through the swift adoption of the ‘two-pack’ proposals. going beyond that, three further steps can be identified. first, we should further refine our financial backstops – the efsm, the efsf and its successor, the esm – to strengthen our potential to intervene in support of financial stability. second, we need a serious discussion about the joint issuance and mutualisation of national debt in the form of stability bonds. this includes agreement on their pre-conditions, namely much more joint decision-making in all economic and budgetary matters. we will not achieve stability bonds without a greater degree of integration. in its green paper of november 2011, the commission made public its ideas on how the euro area can move technically towards joint issuance of debt. a roadmap and a timetable will need to be worked out that also takes into account the need to build the necessary political and democratic momentum. third, other options for a deeper fiscal integration also need to be explored. fiscal union is much more than just stability bonds. for instance, it also means more coordination in taxation policy and a much stronger european approach to budgetary matters, both at national and eu level. i have already discussed the eu budget in the context of the mff. in the longer term, stronger solidarity mechanisms could play an even more important role. i have already referred to the need to link the development of fiscal union with the development of political union. a deeper economic and monetary union requires deeper accountability and legitimacy. making the technical proposals is, ironically, the easier part. but if the technical proposals are made without proper support throughout the european union, we risk a backlash. decisions of historic dimension need to be prepared, and the citizens need to be involved in the debate. we must work together to ensure this and we can only ensure it if the community method remains at the heart of our move forward. i am convinced that this house, directly elected by the citizens, must and will play a crucial role in this respect: the european parliament is the basis of european democracy. this is one of the reasons why i deeply deplore the recent orientation taken in council on our schengen proposals and the european parliament’s involvement in the relevant legislation. (applause)this is the wrong signal to send at the wrong time on a core area of european construction in terms of freedom of movement. we need more, not less, parliamentary democracy in our union. (applause) allow me to finish by saying a very brief word on the g20 meeting next week. the eu representatives will be able to report on how europe is meeting its difficulties with determination. we are not complacent about our difficulties, we will be open about them, but at the same time i hope that we will be proud to say what we are determined to achieve. for instance, the proposal we put forward last week on a common framework for banking crisis management and resolution makes europe the first jurisdiction in the world to be delivering on all the g20 commitments to strengthen the regulation and supervision of the banking sector. we can expect others in the world to point the finger at the european union and the euro area as the source of all the world’s problems, including their own. it is always easier to talk about the problems of others in order to distract attention away from one’s own problems. but in the end, we all have challenges. ultimately, these are common challenges. we need to address them together, also on the global scale. europe’s contribution must be far-reaching reforms. we need reforms in europe. europe’s contribution must also be a big step for an ever closer, ever stronger union of stability and growth. i believe we have the right case to make and i thank you for your attention. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the member states to tackle the real problems and have the courage to answer the real questions. it is time for the european council on 28 and 29 june to finally decide in the heat of the moment rather than simply relying on emergency measures that are outdated. these real questions really boil down to one for the group of the european people's party: are we prepared to make the political leap necessary to make the european union and the euro zone work? it was a word that could not be pronounced two years ago. are we both lucid and politically courageous enough to defend and organise a shared political sovereignty, or are we going, as we have been doing for the last two years, from crisis council to crisis council, letting our laws, our policies, our choices of society be imposed on us by the financial markets and banking institutions? (applause) i would like to thank we must take responsibility for this once and for all. we want the european union with a social and fiscal model. we have to put it out there. this is a difficult time and in times of crisis we move forward and not backward. we must face reality and stop indulging in illusions. the reality is that no single country in europe can tackle global challenges, whether economic, social, demographic, military or political, on its own. we see it every day. each state says: 'i don't need europe, i don't need europe', and the next day it calls for help. the reality is that in the last 60 years we have achieved peace and prosperity and that this has been possible thanks to a method, the community method, ladies and gentlemen of the council. i am a firm believer in this approach, just as i am convinced that europe is the solution and not the problem. so, dear friends, on 28 and 29 june, beyond such important issues as economic governance, the credibility of the euro, the financial prospects, my group is asking the member states first and foremost to make a choice, a major choice that will determine the rest: do you want to ensure a future for europeans and do you want to focus on the essential, namely strong political integration through the community method? or do you prefer to continue to pretend to be economically sovereign but find out, after every summit, after every meeting of finance ministers, that the decisions taken are insufficient, too late and that we are going into the wall? do you prefer, as you did on 7 june on schengen, to go back to your borders, to your intergovernmental arrangements? if you vote for the first option, the european parliament will be happy to work with you on lasting solutions to the problems of our fellow citizens. but if the european council persists in not wanting to agree on the essentials, we shall not see the end of the tunnel any time soon. these are my requests to the council. i will make another request: that the president of parliament may finally debate with the heads of state and government all the subjects which concern the future of europeans. the president of the commission has a seat in the council, as does the president of the central bank. is the democratically elected president not as good as the president of the central bank? (applause) i would like to thank it represents the 500 million europeans. the president of the only institution elected by universal suffrage, the president of the institution which co-legislates with the council, is asked to leave the chamber after his presentation. what democracy, what transparency do we have vis-à-vis the outside world? no european integration can be achieved without the democratic legitimacy embodied in the european parliament. i will end, my dear josé manuel, by saying that i know you repeat things a lot, we repeat them here too, that we must continue with the recommendations. we must put new proposals on the table on tax and social union, and we must not be afraid to publish them. go, you have the parliament with you. we are the force of proposition and the council needs us in the difficult crisis situation in which it finds itself. it needs solutions and we need to put them on the table, even more than we have done so far. you can count on us. i also ask you to go further, to publish every three months an updated table of economic and social measures taken by each of our governments, both right and left. europeans need to know which state is making efforts to clean up its public finances, promote growth and jobs and is not just talking about it. all these proposals, my dear friend, must be continued. we will bring europe out of the crisis on top. ladies and gentlemen, that is what the group of the european people's party wants: honesty towards our fellow citizens and above all a lot of political courage. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i just want to say that if an election has liberated anyone, then the defeat of sarkozy has liberated joseph daul.
i think i've always had my freedom of speech and i've kept it all my life. it's the only thing i inherited from my father, who told me, "be careful never to be a hostage". and when i was held hostage, it never lasted more than two days. i assure you, dany.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate where everyone is talking about political europe, about european sovereignty, i want to return to the definition of sovereignty. there will be political sovereignty only if there is budgetary sovereignty in europe, otherwise it will not work. i'd like to do a little demonstration on the problem we have now, which is very practical. guy verhofstadt is right: we will only achieve budgetary sovereignty if we really manage to secure own resources for europe. what does that mean? it simply means that today the states, including the french government, are saying: 'we can no longer increase the national contribution'. that's good! let's face it! it's their decision. but if, as the commission has proposed, as is being discussed, we have a financial transaction tax, a european carbon tax, a mobile phone tax, these three possibilities - and i could give you more - would give a package of 40 to 50 billion more for the european budget. it is from this point that the discussion has become completely absurd today, because we are told: 'ok, if you have your own resources, we will give all these resources back to the states', and this is in the commission's famous proposal 'two thirds/one third' on the financial transaction tax. in other words, one third is given directly to the states and the two thirds that go to the european union are a sum that is deducted from the national contributions. so we give 100% back to the states. there is no resource of its own. it is a misused resource for the states and not a resource for the european union. that's not how you move forward. the council then says: 'and you are going to cut the european budget even further.' this debate is not abstract. this is the very basis of what is called the political sovereignty of europe. if we accept that own resources are resources for the states and not resources for the european budget, where do we go? we don't have to accept this kind of bargaining, we don't have to say yes. the only way for europe to invest in creating jobs and supporting the cohesion funds is to increase the european budget. let us accept that national contributions cannot finance it. but own resources are the means of increasing the european budget precisely to support the deficits of the member states' economies. we do not want own resources for the european parliament, we want them for the european citizens. that is why i believe that the fight we are about to start now, which will be a fight over the question 'do we actually accept that the budget remains at the level it is?' is a mistake. we must say that if there is no real increase in the european budget, so that own resources become budgetary resources and not simply a return to the states, if we do not have this strength, this capacity, then despite all our talk about european sovereignty, about the need for more europe, we will not be able to implement the necessary policies. it is our legitimacy, our credibility as europeans that we must defend. that is why, when it comes to the financial perspective, we must say to the council, we must say to the member states: 'do not think that this time parliament will go to sleep. you'll find that you have no financial prospects if you don't move in a consistent way. if not, stay at home! you spend too much money on your tops and it's not doing anything".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to welcome the excellent cooperation between the parliament's delegation and the danish presidency on the budgetary framework, and i personally thank minister wammen for that. the negotiation of the next framework will begin without europe having emerged from the debt crisis. contrary to what is believed in some capitals, the european budget is not just another problem, but, on the contrary, it contains part of the solutions. because what is it that people everywhere are asking for? the budget discipline? the european budget is a great success! it is the only one in the world which has always followed the golden rule and, for the last ten years, has increased less than all national budgets. are we asking for a reduction in national contributions? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. are we desperate for future investments? the european budget is a great success! it allows us to reach critical mass on scientific research, on networks, on renewable energy sources that no country could achieve on its own. a euro well spent in brussels saves several euros at national level. finally, in some capitals, there is even a call for a further step towards political europe. the european budget is a great success! the credibility of the european faiths, as we hear it here and there, will be measured by the position each one will take on the financing of the union's policies.
mr president, this debate on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is a fundamental political debate in which europe, in the midst of the crisis, makes the political choice to plan for the future. we have four priorities. firstly, the introduction of the financial transaction tax. for many years our group has advocated the introduction of this tax with its regulatory effects on the speculative financial mechanisms which are largely responsible for the present crisis. this tax will bring in new resources without affecting either the economic or the social balance. the second priority allowed by the creation of this tax is the creation of substantial own resources for the european union to replace the contributions of the member states. it will be a leap forward for the european institutions, which will no longer be held hostage by a particular net contributor country. the eu will be free to commit its own resources. third priority: to ensure that there is at least enough budget for the debate in parliament on the report of its sure committee. the creation of the financial transaction tax should have allowed us to go further. but at the very least, we must avoid any backsliding. less budget means less europe, whereas what we need now is more europe. finally, the fourth priority: better focusing our budgetary resources on a central objective, namely the completion of europe's green conversion for its agriculture, its industry, its transport, its energy efficiency and many other areas. in the face of the crisis, the european union has a duty to move forward.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, i simply wanted to ask you not to be schizophrenic at the end of this month. i am very concerned to see that, when it comes to economic governance, there is now a debate which is right, i think, about how we can create growth that makes discipline sustainable, that makes it sustainable, that actually makes it possible to have balanced budgets and reduce debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nor is there any concern - as guy verhofstadt has said - or not enough concern, to have resources of its own which enable this union to act, and to do so in accordance with concerns which are shared by all. it is a question of democracy, not only in terms of procedure but also because behind closed doors, when member states have veto rights, decisions are not in the public interest.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office, finally a european council on growth and i regret that in december 2011, when the heads of state and government adopted the treaty on economic stability and governance, the president of the european council did not convene a specific council on growth. but then, it all happens! i think we should make a solemn appeal to the 25 states to ratify this treaty on stability and economic governance, which is a message of confidence and solidarity both with regard to the markets and the people, and i call on the political forces in france to honour the signature of the french republic without delay. so we have talked about growth, i think we also need to talk about competitiveness. competitiveness of our continent: yes, we need a great infrastructure plan. we do not need 10 or 20 billion, we need investments of between 1 and 1 500 billion. and in the area of own resources, we lack imagination. why not set up mandatory contributions for digital, energy networks, roads, railways, water? i am proposing again an audit of public expenditure, and the pooling of military, diplomatic and research expenditure. finally, on the institutional front, i was pleased that president daul supported the idea of inviting the president of the european parliament to the european council. but, mr president, the president of the european council must have relations with our parliament. since the stable presidency has been established, we no longer have relations with the heads of state or government. we need this political dialogue at the highest level with the heads of state and government and with mr van rompuy, who is too absent from our assembly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must give our citizens concrete proof of our ability to solve the crisis, first of all by means of growth through investment. can you justify that in this period when employment is no longer assured, the egf, which is supposed to support workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, should be abolished, even though we have to reinvent an industrial policy for europe? solidarity and precariousness are affecting a new population of young people, unemployed workers, women and pensioners. and those same people who have not been able to manage this crisis would choose to abolish the european food aid programme? i ask you, mr president, to maintain it beyond 2013 without cutting other essential programmes. finally, the cohesion. the regions should not be held responsible for the mismanagement of the states. we reject the reinforcement of macroeconomic conditionality because, in times of crisis, we must be able to adjust support policies where economic growth is territorial and where employment can be located. we are therefore standing together with the trade unions and ngos who are fighting for solidarity, and with the regions who must play a decisive role in the vitality of the territories for more growth, employment and social justice.
in writing. the european council of 28 and 29 june will endorse the european commission's annual recommendations to france to reduce its public debt and supposedly restore its competitiveness. these recommendations will become binding after the adoption of the current legislation, in particular the union's economic governance legislation. these recommendations include the continuation and intensification of the liberalization of public services, the end of regulated professions, the flexibility of the labour market and the possibility of easier dismissal, this is called the dismantling of the labour code. the end of restrictions on the establishment of large-scale farms, the challenge to the reduced rate of vat, the increase in consumption taxes and the creation of new green taxes are also included. these are just some of the measures imposed by brussels to ensure the viability of the euro area. the worst part is that of course françois hollande and his finance minister will endorse without restriction, betraying a few weeks after the presidential election the election promises. the french will love it !
the rapporteur. - madam president, i thank my colleagues for their approval and i propose that the report be referred back to committee so that we can begin the trilogue discussions and try to reach agreement at first reading.
madam president, the negotiations on the next budgetary framework started a few months ago, but it is only at the next european council next week that there will be a first round of talks between the heads of state and government. the resolution which parliament has just adopted on the proposal from five groups and which was adopted by a majority of five-sixths is a precise and clear text, which recalls parliament's red lines in this negotiation, which will be the mandate which parliament has just solemnly given to president schulz when he meets the european council next week, and which will be the mandate for the continuation of our negotiation. it was therefore very important that it should be adopted by such a large majority. i thank my colleagues for that. the real negotiation is about to begin. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i supported the report appointing mrs ivanova as a member of the court of auditors for 6 years. this appointment, approved by a large majority of the european parliament, follows the regulatory procedure, namely a prior consultation of the european parliament before any decision of the council, which will be based on the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the strengthening of international efforts to ensure that all human rights recognised by un conventions are considered to be universal, indivisible, interdependent and closely linked. we also need to integrate democracy support more fully into the eu's external action, supporting democratic governance through its various financial instruments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which encourages european diplomacy to exert a greater influence on the decisions and actions of the united nations. our common commitment to human rights, but also to the values of peace, security and freedom, can indeed enable the european union to make its contribution to the development of democracy, peace and prosperity throughout the world, in a complementary and coordinated way with the member states.
in writing. by adopting the report proposing a recommendation to the council on the 67th session of the united nations general assembly, the european parliament affirms its commitment to creating a strong and stable partnership between the united nations and the european union. a will that i commend. it is vital to coordinate the union's action as much as possible by presenting unified positions and by strengthening its coherence and visibility as a global actor within the un, but also by consolidating its contribution to the un's work.
in writing. the european union and the united nations (un) share common values and standards which aim to ensure peace, security and the protection of human rights in the world. moreover, the eu and its member states are the main financial contributors to the un, providing 39% of the organisation's regular budget and more than 40% of its peacekeeping operations. however, cooperation between the two organisations is not yet well defined. in the report adopted this week in plenary, which i supported, we called on the council to clarify and strengthen the eu's relations with the un, in particular with its general assembly which will meet for its 67th session at the end of the year. this international meeting will be an opportunity for the eu to assert its leading role in a world where concerted action is increasingly needed.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying the scheme of generalised tariff preferences without distorting the original structure proposed by the commission. i note that the trilogue with the council and the commission has made progress in the same direction and has met parliament's objectives, particularly on the most sensitive points such as the clauses concerning the textile sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which revises the scheme of generalised tariff preferences (gsp). since 1971, the european union has granted trade preferences to developing countries. these provisions are regularly adapted to the economic growth of each country. today's vote is the first revision of this codecision system. the compromise reached with the council is almost hopeless, given the deep differences which remained between the member states. in our view, french socialists, this text reconciles two imperatives: that the large emerging countries no longer enjoy privileged access to the european market, and that exports from the poorest countries are facilitated. this new trade regime will therefore make it possible to help developing countries more effectively, and at the same time it will be a step forward in our fight for fair trade, since it will virtually exclude emerging countries from the international trading system.
in writing. to enable the poorest countries to participate in world trade, the european union has been using the system of generalised tariff preferences since 1971. this system facilitates the entry of products from less economically developed countries into the european market by granting them total or partial exemption from customs duties. but the world economy has changed a lot in the last 40 years. some emerging countries which have hitherto benefited from the gsp, such as brazil, china and russia, no longer have the same difficulties in participating in trade. the new system will focus on countries that need it most, so it is going in the right direction. a second major step forward is the introduction of an incentive system known as 'spg+'. it will reward countries that commit themselves to sustainable development and take action to promote human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to improve the effectiveness of the customs benefits granted by the european union by targeting them on 80 developing countries instead of the more than 170 today. the application of these preferential tariffs should thus make it possible to promote international trade, economic growth and social development in the countries which need them most, without other foreign firms taking advantage of them to compete unfairly with european production on the internal market.
in writing. i gave my full support to the revision of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences, which was being examined for the first time since 1971 in codecision. the text reconciles two imperatives to which the social democrats are particularly attached: to ensure that the large emerging countries no longer enjoy privileged access to the european market, and to facilitate exports from the poorest countries. i therefore welcome the fact that this new trade regime will eventually make it possible to give better support to developing countries in the fight for fair trade, since this will mean that emerging countries will be almost completely excluded from this system. i welcome the message thus addressed to the ultra-liberals, that the logic of excessive competition must now give way to the healthy and balanced development that the socialists so ardently desire.
in writing. the system of generalised tariff preferences provides for the granting of preferential rights, including customs duties, to developing countries. the system, created in 1971, is a necessary mechanism in an increasingly competitive global economic and commercial environment. while europe is experiencing a crisis of unprecedented violence, some of the developing countries are experiencing significant growth and have become very successful. it is therefore necessary to update this system by concentrating efforts on the least developed countries and by raising the level of award criteria by requiring, for example, compliance with 27 international conventions on human rights, labour and the environment. it is now up to the commission to apply this tool in a balanced way, in accordance with the realities on the ground, and not to rely solely on a mechanical application of the criteria listed in the various existing schemes (spg, spg+, 'everything but weapons').
in writing. i have supported the report by my colleague mr fjellner on the restoration of the generalised tariff preferences (gsp) scheme. the trade agreement will give 80 developing countries and territories preferential access to the eu market in the form of reduced customs duties on goods they export to the eu market. it is an indispensable tool for foreign and development policy. i also welcome the extension of the gsp+ criterion, which makes the granting of trade advantages conditional on ratification of basic conventions on human rights, labour and the environment. it is an essential and effective means of promoting the values of the european union.
in writing. the generalised system of preferences (gsp) has existed in europe since 1971 and its benefits are no longer to be demonstrated. it was nevertheless necessary to adapt it to the world economic reality: some countries classified as less developed became, in a few years, very successful. under the new gsp criteria, these will no longer be able to benefit from the preferential tariffs, while the ldcs will be able to benefit more. that is why i voted in favour of the amendments in this plenary session. i also welcome the improvement in the monitoring and control of the gsp+, which makes the granting of additional preferences conditional on the application of 27 core conventions on human rights, labour and the environment. this is a point i made in my report of november 2011: trade can be a means of promoting the eu's core values if and only if the eu gives itself the means to enforce them. the revision of the preference withdrawal mechanism is a step in the right direction. this positive vote will also allow the proposal to be finalised and put into effect by the end of the year.
in writing. since 1971, as part of its common commercial policy, the european union has applied preferential trade tariffs (spt) to certain developing countries in order to encourage their economic growth. however, some emerging countries are now competing with europe in world markets, and these advantages are therefore no longer justified. the updating of the gsps will reduce the number of countries enjoying preferential access to eu markets from 176 to around 75. it will also reduce the total value of imports under the preferential system by some eur 20 billion. on the other hand, we are strengthening another special regime, called gsp+, which offers higher benefits but with conditions: countries will have to prove that they respect the 27 international conventions in the field of human rights and sustainable development. by voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation, we want to help those countries which really need it, by encouraging them to adopt our values, and also to strengthen our trade defenses against our direct competitors.
in writing. since 1971, the european union has granted tariff preferences to certain developing countries to make it easier for them to export certain products to the eu without reciprocity. more recently, the union has introduced a system called the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+) whereby countries that commit themselves to a certain respect for human rights, democracy and the environment obtain additional trade benefits. this system is indeed not commercially favourable to the eu, but to destroy it on the grounds that it must comply with wto rules is a political choice and a further step towards the rule of market law alone. it cannot afford to suffer less and less from exceptions, even when it comes to supporting the poorest countries in the world. the new gsp+ system will therefore restrict the number of least developed countries (ldcs) that benefit from it and will not include the particularly fragile areas of the small island countries, as my reunion colleague younous omarjee has strongly denounced. i therefore voted against this report, to denounce this new hypocrisy of the european union in the field of development.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this measure which strengthens the surveillance of euro area countries in difficulty. it is essential that the commission and the governments of the monetary union know the exact situation of their neighbours in crisis, so that their financial assistance is as appropriate and effective as possible. the increase in surveillance also serves as a guarantee that the countries concerned are implementing the reforms needed to stabilise their situation and are not threatening the euro area economies as a whole with their irresponsibility.
in writing. i abstained on this report because, even if the socialists have succeeded in getting the 'golden rule' and the limitation of the structural deficit to 0.5% introduced by mr gauzès in his initial report, the generalization of the reverse qualified majority rule, which would excessively strengthen the power of the commission, deciding alone whether to place a state under surveillance, constitutes an unacceptable risk.
in writing. the two reports, known as the 'two pack', were put to the vote in plenary. i voted in favour of both reports in the votes on 13 june 2012. the two-pack represents a further step forward in budgetary surveillance. it complements the 'six pack', a legislative package adopted by the european parliament in september 2011, which provides for measures to strengthen economic governance. the first report by my colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès, concerns the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability within the euro area. it provides that once a state is under protection, it cannot be declared in default. in addition, the country's creditors must make themselves known to the commission within two months. in addition, interest rates on loans will be frozen.
in writing. the two 'two-pack' proposals were adopted by a large majority in the european parliament this morning. the powers of the european commission in budgetary surveillance of the member states are strengthened. it's called a custody order. the national budgets will therefore be consulted by the european commission and the other member states of the union with the obligation to make the structural reforms necessary to clean up public accounts. member states which disobey the directives of brussels will be fined more automatically. this is the end of the budgetary sovereignty of the states, the logical consequence of the loss of their monetary sovereignty. as manuel barroso has said, it is now a matter of making political union, otherwise it will be a matter of disintegration. the tone is set. the political coup d'état of the brussels technocracy, with the complicity of the european parliament and governments, is under way. the people will watch, powerless, as their freedom is destroyed. i have of course opposed the adoption of these two proposals for regulations.
in writing. this report aggravates the provisions of the six pack and the esm treaty currently under ratification. it gives the unelected european commission the power to place any eurozone member state under austerity plans and surveillance missions that it alone decides. the council may only revoke such decisions if it so decides within 10 days by the qualified majority provided for. the text also sets out the outlines of future adjustment plans. they will also have to promote free competition, particularly in the field of public procurement. the text would also apply to states which are already receiving 'financial assistance' and would therefore change the conditions under which these states can free themselves from the troika's tutelage. as for the "legal protection" put forward, it would only be effective from 2017 and would enshrine the repayment of the interest on the debt of the states without any condition of legitimacy. i am voting against this text and denouncing it.
in writing. in 2008, a us financial crisis led to a global economic crisis. today, let us not let the difficulties of greece ravage the euro area. but also, and most importantly, let us not allow the greek situation to happen again. we have the same currency. our economies are far too interconnected for decisions to be made unilaterally. the economic governance of the euro area is therefore necessary. these reports set out measures to strengthen the commission's powers in the monitoring of national budgets and to improve its democratic control by strengthening the role of the european parliament. in addition, a new rule would allow the commission to put a country at risk of defaulting under legal protection, with a view to giving it greater clarity, stability and predictability in dealing with its problems. by voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation, we are sending a clear signal to the council. the time for short-term and last-chance meetings is over.
in writing. at a time when greece and spain can no longer reasonably finance themselves on the markets, european partners must understand that they can no longer spend without consideration, and that it is now the control of their sovereignty and their future that is at stake. it is this principle of common sense that our political family has been able to put forward in this text, which endorses the new imperative deficit-control objectives contained in the stability and growth pact. the euro area member states which fail to meet their commitments to limit debt to 60% of gdp and to vote reasonably balanced budgets will now be subject to increased surveillance and a programme to clean up public accounts. this new method of monitoring budgetary discipline and correcting deficits is, in my view, a lifesaver in many ways. it will ensure a climate of financial stability which is essential to the restoration of confidence, which is the real engine of growth. it will also prevent future generations from bearing the burden of a debt they did not incur and will ensure that they are able to retain control of their own destiny.
in writing. several advances to be highlighted. the objective of debt mutualisation is specified. the redumption fund, originally proposed by the efta countries, will transfer the amounts of debt exceeding 60% of gdp. these pooled sums, amounting to eur 2.3 trillion, will be repaid over 25 years, allowing the creation of eurobonds which we have been calling for for many months. parliament proposed the creation of a growth instrument mobilising 1% of the gdp of the member states over ten years, or about eur 100 billion, for investment in infrastructure projects of european interest. because while some people talk about financial stability and fiscal consolidation and others about growth, we really need both. the member states are deeply in debt and it is up to the union to invest to restore competitiveness. it should go further, for example by using european savings. we have ensured the effectiveness of these tools by reintroducing the community method. in line with the six pack, an economic dialogue with the european parliament is being established. this restores democratic legitimacy to decisions that have long been taken between governments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text drawn up by the socialist member for the european parliament, mrs ferreira, because she supports the draft regulation establishing a golden rule for the public finances of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague elisa ferreira's report because it incorporates proposals long rejected by the european conservatives such as growth facilities and the implementation of a roadmap for the introduction of eurobonds, which are more than ever needed to curb speculation. i regret, however, that because of opposition from the conservatives and liberals, it was not possible to pass an amendment allowing public investment to be given preferential treatment in the debt and deficit statistics of economies under pressure.
in writing. on 13 june, meps voted on the two reports known as the 'two packs' which complete the package of six legislative acts to strengthen economic governance. the text by mrs ferreira, which has given rise to the greatest number of disagreements, aims to increase the role of the commission in examining the budgets of the member states. the commission will thus be able to require a member state to present a new budgetary plan if the path taken by the state deviates too sharply from the requirements of the stability and growth pact. the adoption of the two reports should provide general guidance for the two rapporteurs who will be responsible for negotiating the regulations with the member states and the commission. however, the socialist group, through some rather inelegant stratagems, succeeded in getting amendments to the treaty to be included, such as the creation of a fund for the amortisation of debts exceeding 60% of the gdp of the countries concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the european parliament must now support a principle which is far from unanimous within it.
in writing. the two 'two-pack' reports were put to the vote in plenary. i voted in favour of both reports in the votes on 13 june 2012. the two-pack represents a further step forward in budgetary surveillance. it complements the 'six-pack', a legislative package adopted by the european parliament in september 2011, which provides for measures to strengthen economic governance. the second report by mrs elisa ferreira lays down common rules for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the correction of excessive deficits in the euro-area member states. the report aims to oblige the 17 member states to consult the commission before any economic measure which might have consequences for neighbouring states.
in writing. this report proposes that all euro area member states should be placed under the auspices of the european commission. it places all states in an excessive deficit situation under the increased surveillance of the commission. it obliges all the member states to detail each provision of their draft budgets to the commission. this one can make amends. its amendments will have to be adopted by the national parliaments, or else sanctions will be imposed. the text also incorporates many of the provisions of the budgetary pact currently being ratified. it thus obliges the states to submit any investment to the commission for validation, to set up 'automatic correction mechanisms' in the event of non-compliance with the budgetary adjustments envisaged by the commission. it also establishes the 'economic partnership programme' provided for by the tscg for all states under an excessive deficit procedure. i vote against this democratic hold up
in writing. the time has come to restore the confidence of the citizens. this is now a vital imperative for the survival of the european union. even though there is something positive in the substance of this 'two-pack' which complements the economic governance package, i abstained on both the gauzès and ferreira reports. if we are not able to explain the added value and the rationale for implementing these measures to the citizens, then i do not see how we will be able to get out of the multidimensional crisis we are in. adding measures to measures without a substantive agreement on the project we want to build together will get us nowhere. i therefore abstain more from a scepticism about the mode of action chosen than from a total disagreement on the substance, because there are certain provisions in these reports which i support, such as the idea of a redemption fund, that of a road map for eurobonds or even a stronger coordination of budgets and the issuance of sovereign debt.
in writing. the european parliament voted this week on two regulations, the so-called 'two-pack'. these texts are part of the arsenal that is now being thrown at europe. they are in line with the european budgetary pact, which constitutionalises the golden rule, and with the '6 pack', the elder brother of the treaty, which aims to integrate the principle of austerity into european law with the european semester, which sets up the commission's control of national budgets. the first is the gauzès report (epp, french), which is intended to strengthen economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability within the euro area. the ferreira report (portuguese socialist) deals with the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and the correction of excessive deficits in the euro-zone member states. i regret that the ferreira report was adopted by a large majority (501 votes in favour, 138 against and 36 abstentions), thanks to the support of the socialist and green groups. the few amendments on growth and eurobonds do not change the logic which remains profoundly austerity-oriented and anti-democratic, despite the sprinkling of nice words like growth and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the binev report on the proposal to amend the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development to extend its scope of operations to the southern and eastern mediterranean region. the european union must support the region's transition to pluralism and democracy, as well as openness and economic development in the wake of the hopes raised by the arab spring. the report stresses the need for a gradual approach, taking into account the specificities of each country and territory concerned.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which authorises our european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to help our mediterranean neighbours rebuild their economies and thus their democracies. as in eastern europe after the collapse of communism, the ebrd will enable the european union to promote more open, more liberalized and therefore more efficient economies, which go hand in hand with political and democratic progress, which are central values in our european construction.
in writing. originally set up to support the development of market economies in the countries of central europe and central asia following the collapse of communist regimes, the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development has since been extended to the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean in order to support the countries of the region in their transition to market economies and democracy. as a co-legislator, the european parliament was invited to give its opinion on the extension of the ebrd's mandate. meps voted in favour of a gradual approach adapted to the specific situation of the countries around the mediterranean. eu representatives on the ebrd's governing bodies could thus advocate for the bank's actions promoting social inclusion and energy efficiency, as well as civil and human rights. since the arab spring, the eu has undertaken a series of measures to support the economic and political recovery of the eastern and southern mediterranean countries, whose situation remains fragile. so here is a new initiative that deserves to be welcomed.
in writing. this report provides for the extension of the agreement establishing the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to the southern and eastern mediterranean region. this extension reflects the strong support of the european union for the transition of these countries to a market economy and a pluralistic society. a transition that was encouraged by the arab spring. i supported this report, which was adopted by the european parliament by a large majority.
in writing. on 30 september 2011, the board of governors of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) voted in favour of the amendments to the agreement establishing the ebrd, which are necessary to allow the bank to extend its intervention region to the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean. mr binev's report explains that in response to the political and economic situation in the southern and eastern mediterranean countries, the ebrd has developed a gradual approach to start its activities. this report provides the european union with greater flexibility in its cooperation with the countries bordering the mediterranean. the institutions' representatives within the ebrd will be required to encourage the ebrd to contribute to the transition towards open market economies, promoting social inclusion and energy efficiency, while taking into account the social context, poverty, civil rights and human rights. my work at european level is exactly that: to help and support the third countries of the mediterranean region, both in their democratic transition phases following the waves of revolutions of the arab spring and in their political and economic transition phases.
in writing. the extension of the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the mediterranean region, in my view, represents our taking into account the geostrategic revolution that the mediterranean area has experienced since 2011 with the arab spring. the ebrd was established in 1991 following the fall of the berlin wall and the soviet bloc. its mandate has always been to support countries in their transition to a market economy and democracy, in order to ensure stability and security at the union's borders. the aim is to take account of the reversal of the situation in the mediterranean countries in 2011 and to support them in their efforts to achieve a sustainable and secure transition, similar to that currently under way in the countries of central and eastern europe. it seems to me therefore absolutely necessary to go along with the g8 and also the 61 shareholders of the ebrd in voting this report, all of whom call for this enlargement towards a new south. this new mandate will be beneficial economically, security-wise and diplomatically for both sides of the mediterranean and will strengthen the union's role as a leading partner in the mediterranean basin.
in writing. extending the financial support instruments for the eastern mediterranean countries to the southern mediterranean countries may seem like a good thing. but in this case, doing so for the ebrd (european development bank) is a cause for concern. the logic of this financial institution is very clear: "the transition of countries to an open market economy and the promotion of private initiative and the spirit of enterprise". we know what the economic and social results of this logic have been in the eastern countries, including the states which are now members of the eu. this is the logic that is being imposed on the countries of the south, and i have been denouncing this constantly, particularly on the basis of the example of tunisia. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for adoption by the end of the year. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the budget of the european union is an investment budget, let us say it once and for all. the union is not in deficit, the budget plays - or rather should play - a major role in putting into effect the investment strategy we are so anxious to see. i therefore supported this resolution on the union's own resources, because at a time of budgetary negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework (mff), it is extremely important that parliament should have a strong and united voice on the new system of own resources to be put in place. we would remind you that parliament will not give its consent to the mff without an agreement on own resources, but also the end of the rebate and other corrective mechanisms, for more transparency, fairness and sustainability in the budget. we are determined to make the union budget an instrument for investment and growth, and we are ready to use our co-decision power in this respect.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, as a member of the european parliament, i joined my colleagues in sending a strong message to the council: parliament is not ready to give its consent to the regulation of the next multiannual financial framework without a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system. the margin of manoeuvre of parliament in this area is very narrow. but to meet the challenges of economic recovery, the european union must have a solid budget, which implies in particular an evolution of the community budget on the basis of the 2013 amount, increased by 5%. we also call on the council to respect the european parliament's powers of codecision for sectoral policies.
in writing. the eu needs a strong budget to meet its political and economic objectives. i supported the resolution on the multiannual financial framework, which was adopted by 541 votes to 100, with 36 abstentions. in this resolution, the european parliament insists that the 2014-2020 budgetary framework should provide for increased budgetary flexibility to ensure that budgetary resources can be appropriately adapted to changing situations and priorities. i therefore voted against the resolutions proposed in parallel by the edr group and the efd group which did not correspond to this objective.
in writing. the european union needs a strong budget to meet its political objectives. by voting in favour of this resolution, i want to send this message to the council, which will soon be debating the draft eu budgetary framework for 2014-2020. i believe that budgetary flexibility must be increased, allowing more flexibility within and between budget headings and from one financial year to the next. this would allow budgetary resources to be appropriately adapted to changing situations and priorities. in addition, alternative sources of revenue must be provided to the eu budget - including part of the revenue from a financial transaction tax or a european vat. as the text of the resolution says, without political agreement on the system of own resources in the union budget, parliament will not give its consent to the regulation of the next multiannual financial framework. finally, what i am asking for above all is that the council fully acknowledges the role of co-decision-making of parliament in these negotiations and acts accordingly. parliament is determined to make its voice heard, let the council prepare for it!
in writing. the multiannual financial framework, also known as the 'financial perspective', sets out a medium-term programme of the union's main budgetary priorities. in this sense, it is fundamental. the commission's proposal for a resolution on the cfp states that 'the union budget must play a strategic role, alongside the fiscal consolidation measures currently imposed on national budgets' (b7-0303/2012, para. 1), legitimising the austerity measures. while the austerity policies imposed by the european union are undermining economies and social structures, the text put to the vote by the european parliament dares to claim that '94 per cent [of the european union's appropriations] are devoted to stimulating economic growth and employment and to strengthening the union's role as a global actor' (ibid). worse, while the council constantly gives the european parliament the upper hand in matters of budgetary power, the text merely calls for 'the political positions agreed by the european council to be the subject of negotiations between parliament and the council' (paragraph 5). i therefore voted against this resolution which confirms austerity policies which are destructive to the peoples of europe.
in writing. the 20th eu-japan summit in brussels on 28 may 2011 had set the stage for discussions to define the scope and level of ambition of the negotiations on the eu-japan free trade agreement. however, the eu will have to stand firm and get the regulatory barriers to trade removed, or we will again be faced with the same type of negotiations as those of the eu-korea agreement. a group was tasked with this delimitation exercise to assess the common understanding of the scope and level of potential trade negotiations between japan and the european union. until the european parliament has presented its position on the proposed negotiating mandate, we do not want the council to enter into negotiations. the stakes for european industry are too high not to be extremely vigilant about the safeguard clauses to be included in this type of agreement.
in writing. while the european union seems to be keen to conclude more and more free trade agreements with its trading partners, some countries do not have the same drive to enter into negotiations. this is the case in japan, which is not yet prepared to remove non-tariff barriers to its public procurement, pharmaceutical products or the automobile sector. the european union would therefore be premature in starting trade negotiations with japan today. the european council should therefore not be too hasty in giving the commission a mandate to start these negotiations. it is also essential that the opinion of the european parliament on the existing trade barriers in japan be taken into account before formal negotiations are launched.
in writing. on 31 may, the european union and japan concluded a framework exercise for a future free trade agreement. the european union last year demanded that japan meet certain conditions for the opening of negotiations. in this context, the european parliament, by this resolution, asks the council to give it a period of time to assess whether these conditions are being met before giving the commission a mandate to negotiate. these conditions are essentially based on the elimination of a number of non-tariff barriers and the opening up of public procurement to european companies. the european parliament supported this resolution by 517 votes, and i welcome that.
in writing. japan is identified by the commission as one of the eu's strategic partners. a high-level eu-japan dialogue has been in place since the early 1990s but has so far produced no tangible results. the sectors identified as being of common interest by the commission and the japanese authorities are sensitive to the european and french industry. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which asks the council not to allow the opening of negotiations on a possible bilateral trade agreement until parliament has given its opinion on the commission's mandate. it seems to me essential that parliament should have a say in the content of the negotiations.
in writing. since the coup d'état of 12 april, the opposition in guinea-bissau has been subject to violent repression. our first responsibility must be to call for calm and dialogue. but it is also the responsibility of guinea's top leaders to do everything possible to prevent a new outbreak of violence in a country that has suffered too much since its independence. since the beginning of events, the international community, europe of course but also ecowas (economic community of west african states) have spoken with one voice. they mobilized by taking sanctions against the transitional government set up by the ex-junta and in which the former ruling party does not participate and against individuals who support actions that threaten peace, security and stability in guinea-bissau. this pressure must continue and the measures provided for must be applied. we must not, however, let up our efforts until the situation has stabilized. it is the responsibility of the un, the african union and the european union to work tirelessly for the return of calm and dialogue.
in writing. the european parliament strongly condemns the coup d'état in guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012 before the second round of the presidential elections, and i welcome it. it is essential that democracy and the rule of law be restored immediately so that the country can decide its future at the ballot box. i therefore reject the continuation of the self-proclaimed government and support the decision of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) to impose sanctions, as the talks have not been sufficient to return to the rule of law.
in writing. the values we defend require us to strongly condemn the political situation in guinea-bissau, as well as the coup d'état by which the military coup d'étatists deposed and arrested the interim president and the prime minister. we demand a full restoration of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and freedom of the press, as well as freedom of association and movement. we call for a consensus to be found to reconnect with the political stability of the country, which is crucial for this region of the world but also far beyond - guinea-bissau being a hub for drug trafficking to the european market. finally, like ecowas and the international community, we call for the immediate return to constitutional order and the rule of law, and for free elections to be held.
in writing. the republic of south sudan is only 10 months old, but has been at war with its northern neighbour for 8 months. more than 150,000 people have been displaced, fighting and bombing continues, and both countries are wasting resources in a conflict that only adds to the tension in the region. it is time for khartoum and juba to comply with the resolutions of the au and the un, to end hostilities and to resume negotiations. the two new countries had agreed to settle the outstanding issues: demarcation of the remaining 20% of borders and sharing of oil resources. both the north and the south have an interest in a deal. but neither of them can count on the international community to remain silent in the face of the humanitarian tragedy that is unfolding. and if dialogue between khartoum and juba does not resume soon, it will be essential for the un to apply pressure and take sanctions. china has decided to take responsibility. this is going in the right direction. but it is very important that the eu continues to assert its position and political presence, because our balanced position is the right one.
in writing. the situation in sudan and south sudan remains alarming. i have already asked the high representative and the european external action service (eeas) on several occasions about their intentions and what concrete actions could be taken to put an end to the hostilities between the two states. since south sudan's independence in july 2011, relations between the two countries have deteriorated steadily, causing a serious humanitarian crisis and straining the civilian population, which is facing a climate of permanent and unsustainable insecurity. parliament noted with concern the latest developments and called on the two states, which had committed themselves to them, to respect the roadmap approved by the un security council on 2 may 2012. the humanitarian crisis in the region, the resulting insecurity and violence are unacceptable and contribute to the growing instability of the region as a whole. i therefore call on the eu to implement through firm and concrete actions the 'comprehensive approach' adopted by the foreign affairs council on 20 june 2011.
in writing. relations between sudan and south sudan are currently marked by distortions in the final demarcation of the borders between them, resulting in violent conflict. the european parliament resolution calls on sudan and south sudan to show their political will to put an end to their differences. the eu is also seeking to reach an agreement by the end of august on economic issues such as oil use, border demarcation and humanitarian access. i supported that resolution and i welcome it.
in writing. while the election observation mission headed by ms nedelcheva welcomed the holding of a referendum in south sudan (which had allowed that region of africa to gain its independence), the current situation is quite different. it can be said that the independence process, which had initially proceeded democratically and peacefully, then took hold: after the referendum, there were strong tensions and a renewed upsurge of violence between the two states. the situation between the two countries, particularly as regards the humanitarian question and the transit of oil from south sudan, remains a matter of concern. we must denounce this situation and urge sudan and south sudan to stop fighting, to reach an economic agreement, particularly on the use of oil, and to allow humanitarian access to the populations affected by the conflict. both states must protect human rights in their respective territories. i fully support the idea that there can be no other solution to this conflict than a peaceful one, and i subscribe to the elements of this resolution, which i have supported.
in writing. the european union is the second largest trading partner of the andean countries, after the united states. europe has also accompanied their respective governments in the processes of democratic transition. on 13 june, parliament gave its green light to a trade agreement aimed at eliminating tariff and technical barriers to trade between the eu, colombia and peru. it is intended to provide access conditions 'equivalent to those available to the united states' in colombia and peru. however, parliament insisted before giving its assent that these agreements should have a positive impact on human rights, improvements in labour rights and trade union rights, otherwise they would be immediately suspended. these agreements are therefore based on a reciprocity clause: economic integration is the means of combating poverty, strengthening social cohesion and achieving sustainable development. in this sense, a group of independent experts will examine the situation of democracy in these regions in order to monitor compliance with legal commitments.
in writing. at present, the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru does not provide for any real dispute settlement and monitoring mechanisms for human rights provisions. i supported the resolution to set up a group of independent experts to ensure the effective implementation of human rights provisions and respect for democratic principles, as well as a legal framework for an open and democratic dialogue between the authorities and civil society.
in writing. this resolution expresses a number of the european parliament's concerns before the ratification of free trade agreements with colombia and peru. the resolution welcomed "the efforts made by the colombian government to combat impunity and the murders of trade unionists and human rights defenders". yet colombia remains the country in the world where the most trade unionists are murdered with impunity (90% of these murders go unpunished), a fate they share with human rights defenders and "indigenous" people. moreover, these free trade agreements do not promote the sustainable development policies that these countries need. it is also blind economic agreements that will further increase inequality. i therefore voted against this resolution to denounce the hypocrisy of the european union which is moving towards ratifying a free trade agreement with a country like colombia while claiming to be at the forefront of human rights and environmental protection. the eu/uk will be mobilising on this agreement, in particular during the vote in the committee on international trade on 10 july.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament has adopted the draft recommendation to the council on the creation of a post of european union special representative for human rights. under the authority and on the proposal of the high representative, this new special mandate should increase the visibility, accountability and consistency of the position of the eu institutions on this important issue. the special representative for human rights will be the eu's preferred interlocutor with the high-level international bodies responsible for this vital issue, the first of which is the un bodies (unga, unhcr).
in writing. the european parliament has long called for the creation of a special representative on human rights. this ambition cannot be compromised by any minimum. this special representative will not be the representative of the 27 but of the union as a whole. parliament therefore intends to play its part in the appointment procedure and in monitoring the whole of its mandate. the representative must also be given a strong, independent and flexible mandate, which is not defined by narrow and specific thematic responsibilities, but which allows him to intervene quickly and effectively. all human rights issues should be covered: abolition of the death penalty, human rights defenders, fight against impunity, fight against torture, freedom of expression (including on the internet), freedoms of association, assembly, religion and belief, minority rights, child protection, women's rights, peace and security, gender issues... finally, adequate financial and human resources should be made available to the special representative to ensure the effectiveness of his work and that of his team.
in writing. i abstained on this text. while the promotion of human rights in the world is naturally a laudable objective, the creation of an additional actor does not enhance the readability of european policy, nor does it contribute to the expected effectiveness. the function of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy must be preserved.
in writing. i join my colleagues in this vote in expressing our wishes for the mandate of the future european union special representative for human rights, whom we have been calling for for several years now, namely: a strong, independent and flexible mandate; a mandate reflecting the eu's human rights policy and covering in particular the strengthening of democracy, international justice, international humanitarian law, abolition of the death penalty, freedom of expression, gender issues, child protection and armed conflict. he or she must be able to act as an intelligent and strategic advocate for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, across the world, by speaking out loudly on behalf of the european union. he or she must help us to ensure that our relations with third countries are consistent, that they actually contribute to the development of the most deprived countries, and that our countries stop turning a blind eye to the question of human rights for purely economic reasons.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague salafranca on the creation of a european union special representative for human rights. the european union needs a high-level interlocutor for its counterparts in third countries and international organisations. it ensures the visibility, effectiveness and coherence of the european union's human rights policy.
in writing. the european union is about to appoint its first-ever thematic special representative: the special representative for human rights (srhr). given the strategic importance of this post, i supported the recommendation of parliament to the council in plenary. this constructive and balanced text aims to clarify the criteria for selecting the candidate and to specify the nature and scope of his mandate. our assembly thus reminded the council that the purpose of this appointment was to strengthen the coherence and visibility of the european union's action in the protection and promotion of human rights. to do this, the hrd must have a sufficiently long mandate (2.5 years) and be renewable more than once (capitalize on the experience gained). the hrd should also be selected on the basis of objective criteria, in relation to his/her competence, experience and international reputation. finally, it is imperative that the hrd has adequate financial and human resources to fully implement its mandate.
in writing. i supported this recommendation setting out our expectations for the future eu special representative for human rights. the promotion of human rights and democracy in the world is at the heart of eu action. it's his raison d'être, his strength, his ambition. we have long been waiting for this position to be created, under the authority of the hr/vp. from now on, there's nothing to stop him from being appointed. after the creation of the eeas, this is the second major innovation in european diplomacy. i will be careful that this is not yet another honorary post, which would in reality be an empty shell. it is essential to me that it has maximum visibility, efficiency and capacity for action. it will be the face and the arm of the union in its quest to eliminate the denials of democracy, the deprivation of individual freedoms and the violation of human rights. i also expressed my wish that parliament should be involved in the appointment procedure and be informed of the representative's actions. how can we imagine that our assembly, elected by the citizens, has no right to look at the results of the one who promotes his values in the world?
in writing. the arms sector is a sensitive and crucial area for the european union, particularly in its relations with other states in the world. however, this trade needs to be more closely monitored and better regulated. the signing of the un arms trade treaty in july will be a first step towards recognizing the rights of civilians, the main victims of armed conflict. the treaty will improve lawful trade with an export control mechanism and combat the trafficking of conventional arms. it will ensure greater transparency and better governance of arms transfers. member states will have to report regularly to the european parliament on this issue and ensure that the treaty is strictly applied in their own legislation.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the issue of the negotiations on the un arms trade treaty (att) has finally been put on the agenda of our european parliament, thanks in particular to the pressure of the alde group to which i belong. we therefore wished that our parliament could express its opinion on this matter and that the european institutions as a whole should take a strong stand to find a solution to the problems of arms transfers. the signing of such a treaty by the international community will be a powerful act, in that it will establish universal and binding standards on the import, export and transfer of arms. the regulation of this trade is urgently needed, given the arms transfers that fuel conflict, poverty and violations of individual rights. we call for clear and binding provisions, which meet the highest international standards in accordance with international humanitarian law. it is urgent that we take the problem head on in order to ensure lasting security and stability in the world.
in writing. the arms trade, which is kept completely opaque, has a direct impact on respect for human rights and development conditions in the least developed countries. that is why i supported this resolution because i believe it is our responsibility as elected representatives to encourage, if not through the commission, the member states to take concrete measures to regulate this trade. a binding agreement is needed at international level and should cover the widest range of transfers and transactions of conventional arms. finally, i hope that this treaty will provide the means to monitor the transparent application of the rules it lays down.
in writing. the eu member states account for around 30% of all arms exports and are among the largest arms producers in the world. action is therefore essential to improve transparency and regulation of trade. the european parliament sent a strong signal to the un member states currently negotiating the arms trade treaty (att) by adopting the relevant resolution by 612 votes to 1. the resolution was supported by a very large majority, and i welcome that. it stresses the need for regular reporting to a un special unit in the att on all arms-related trade agreements, including transfers of small arms and light weapons. the european parliament also considered it necessary to provide for provisions obliging the states parties to adopt the required measures in their national legislation.
in writing. the presidential and legislative elections in the democratic republic of congo in november 2011 were marred by numerous irregularities that skewed the results. the congolese government must therefore intensify its efforts to ensure the rule of law and the security of the congolese people throughout the country by completing the investigations into the violence and violations of fundamental rights committed during these elections. the creation of a constitutional court, the substantive reforms of the independent national electoral commission and the effective establishment of the higher council for audiovisual and communication to guarantee an equal presence of all candidates in the media are essential prerequisites for the smooth running of the electoral process in the country. finally, the commission and the member states must make the eu's financial contribution to the congolese electoral process conditional on the effective implementation of the recommendations of the observation mission, with a view to the forthcoming provincial and local elections.
in writing. the presidential and legislative elections in congo in november 2011 were marked by numerous irregularities, fraud and violence. the european parliament, by a large majority, wishes to stress the need for the congolese government to intensify its efforts to ensure the rule of law and to strengthen the institutions responsible for the smooth conduct of elections. parliament also called on the commission and the member states to make the union's financial contribution conditional on the implementation of the recommendations and to support civil society, which had demonstrated its commitment to the building of democracy by its involvement in the elections. i have decided to support this resolution in plenary.
in writing. the situation of democracy and respect for human rights in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is of great concern. while the outgoing president won the last presidential elections, the eu election observation mission in the drc reported a lack of transparency and credibility due to the many cases of fraud and the many irregularities found. in addition, politically motivated human rights violations increased in the run-up to the presidential elections: the crackdown on human rights defenders and journalists has intensified, with arbitrary arrests and intimidation. in view of this, and given that the eu's financial contribution to these elections amounts to almost 50 million euros, i voted in favour of this resolution, which i co-authored. the text calls on the commission and the member states to make the union's financial contribution to the electoral process in the drc conditional on the effective implementation of the recommendations of the eu election observation mission and calls on the congolese authorities to ratify the african charter on democracy, elections and governance as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this matter in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on monday evening. i'd like to make a few remarks. the first is that in these country-specific recommendations which you have just issued, we are basically saying that the fundamental issue which should be arbitrated if all these recommendations were to be implemented is indeed that of macroeconomic imbalances within the union. when we look at the puzzle of these recommendations, we wonder whether we really have all the tools to correct these macroeconomic imbalances and make this management, in particular, of the euro area as a whole, as efficient as we should imagine it to be. and then, when i look at the specific recommendations you have made to a country i know well, france, i am struck by the fact that at no point do you say that these recommendations are issued on the basis of a document which was handed to you by a government defeated by elections. in this document you take stock of the five years of nicolas sarkozy's presidency. you say that in five years france has lost 19.4% of its competitiveness abroad. and the answer the french have given is that they want a revision of the vat, a revision of the pension reform, a boost to the smic. but in your recommendations to this country, you say the exact opposite. this is a democratic question. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying. you have to answer that question. as you know, we in this parliament are all in favour of integration, of being stronger together at european level, because we know that we will get through this together. but if you do it against the people, against their political choice, we'll go into the wall. you must answer that question, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market act aims to put the market back at the service of the people and to reconcile them with the people, while recognizing that an effective single market can and must be a source of growth and sustainable job creation. the content of recent legislative proposals and commission communications shows that the commission's concerns remain mainly focused on trade facilitation to the detriment of measures targeted at employment and citizens. major issues are missing: promotion of quality jobs and rejection of social dumping, defence of the social protection model and public services, portability of social and pension rights, consumer protection in financial services, right to collective redress. parliament must remind the commission that citizens want and need an innovative europe that can create growth, protect them and also restore their confidence. the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow should give a strong signal of this.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the european commission, and in particular you, commissioner, for your untiring efforts to put the revival and deepening of the internal market at the top of the european agenda. as you recalled, commissioner, for more than two years now both the commission and the european parliament have been working to identify the missing links in the internal market, to identify the issues and sectors for which we need more of an internal market, more of an internal market for more growth, more competitiveness, more jobs. the european council, for its part, also - and this too at a later stage - finally expressed its strong attachment to the rapid and effective implementation of the twelve priority proposals for the internal market, the twelve levers for growth. instead of constantly trying to invent new growth tools, we'd better work with the toolbox we already have. we therefore take the opportunity of the resolution, which will be put to the vote tomorrow in this house, to send a strong political message to the member states: more speed and efficiency in the transposition of the directives already adopted, more mobilisation and commitment in the newly opened construction sites - to mention only one, that of increasing the mobility of workers - more freedom of movement. we will welcome with great interest, commissioner, the second stage of the single market act which you will present after the summer. we will be able to demonstrate both political will and the ability to put pressure on the member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the european parliament wanted to organise this debate on the basis of the employment package which you have put on the commission's table and which we think it is important to bring up here today, in plenary, at a time when the european council is going to discuss a potential growth initiative, alongside the other heavy dossiers which will be on its working table. in this growth initiative, we believe that your voice, the voice that says that growth must be job-creating, must be strong, which is why this debate we are holding today is important. when we look at the expectations of europeans, at a time when unemployment is at an all-time high, it is not so much stabilizing the financial markets as it is keeping or getting back to work that is their main concern. this is the expectation we must meet, especially when it comes to the youngest. this hope is confronted with the realities of a social situation which is becoming more difficult day by day. how can we not see the specter of a lost generation when we know that 5.6 million young people are unemployed, that one in five young europeans is looking for a job and that the situation may not improve before 2016, according to the international labour organization. the european commission reiterates that it will take some time before the guidelines have any effect in terms of job creation. but for that, the orientations must be right. it is striking to see that in the national reform programmes which the member states have sent to the commission, their commitment to present their national employment plans has not been followed up by much. many have not respected this proposal. in this employment package which you have put on the table, i would like to take up two proposals which we feel are at the very heart of the discussion we have to have. first, the taboo you've lifted on the minimum wage. you said that the minimum wage is an important element in the debate to combat poverty and social exclusion, to combat social dumping and to raise the question of aggregate demand, of stimulating domestic demand. this is a major issue if we are to solve the problems of internal imbalances within the european union. and then there is a second proposal which you seem to support, and for which you know that parliament will support you, and that is the idea of a youth guarantee, which means that a young person cannot be unemployed, untrained or unemployed after four months on the labour market. it is a major proposal on which, if we want to commit ourselves to concrete proposals, beyond words, we must move forward in the coming months, around the financial perspectives, around the conclusions of this next european council, and we will be at your side to do so. i am grateful, commissioner, for the momentum we can instill together to correct a strategy which for too long has been one of austerity alone and which is leading us into the wall.
mr president, commissioner, we all agree that the employment situation in europe is catastrophic. with a quarter of young people under 25 unemployed, the challenge is vital for the new generation who refuse to be a sacrificed generation. the european commission has led the way with its employment package to create 17 million jobs by 2020. but it continues to drive us into the wall by piloting austerity plans that increase unemployment and condemn the most vulnerable to the worst hardship. yet the hope for a way out of the crisis is simple. we must put in place the ecological and social transformation of our economy. this requires developing green, sustainable, non-delocalised jobs with targeted investment in green and innovative industries. investment is needed in lifelong learning and in the promotion of the social and solidarity-based economy. on the other hand, decent work must be promoted, taking into account the ilo objectives of improving working rights and conditions, and the vital need to raise the minimum wage must be reaffirmed in order to put an end to the scandal of the working poor and to combat social dumping. we have the means to end the scourge of unemployment. yes, it is possible! what's missing then? all that is lacking is the political will. that's your responsibility! when i see that mr barroso has given priority to the issue of youth and youth unemployment, what is the situation three years later? there is nothing, no concrete proposal. now is the time to act.
mr president, commissioner, there is a fundamental contradiction in your choices. by linking budgetary supervision, which is in fact a matter of reducing social and public spending - while banks are constantly being bailed out and financial markets are satisfied - with the issue of employment, it is as if you were trying to marry water and fire. this is also preventing recovery within the european union as the wealth produced is constantly declining. the development of employment and work can only be achieved by a new distribution of wealth, i.e. by improving the remuneration of labour and pensions, and by a new way of producing this wealth by engaging in the ecological change in production which would create millions of jobs in europe. on the other hand, the european stability mechanism, which is in fact an austerity mechanism, should be replaced by a european fund linked to a european central bank granting new credit conditional on job creation, training, ecological progress, and promoting european public services for the european common good in activities such as water, energy, transport, health, the environment, training, culture, otherwise there will be no what you promise.
member of the commission. − mr president, we stand on the threshold of a first reading agreement on the revision of the so-called seveso directive on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr jános áder, who is today represented by mr seeber, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on this proposal; and, in absentia, congratulate mr áder on his new responsibilities at the very highest level in his home country. industrial accidents often have serious, even devastating, consequences: workers are killed; the public is exposed to chemicals resulting in immediate injury or long-term health impacts; water sources are polluted; companies may have to close. some well-known major accidents like seveso, bhopal, toulouse and buncefield have taken many lives and cost billions of euros. the seveso ii directive, which dates back to 1996, addresses this by setting rules for operators and competent authorities of member states. rules focus on accident prevention, through safety management, inspections and land-use planning. when accidents do happen, seveso seeks to limit the consequences for man and the environment, through appropriate information and emergency planning. the commission is satisfied with the compromise text on which parliament is invited to vote, which aligns the directive with the new international rules on the classification of chemicals and significantly improves the eu rules on accident prevention and control. let me explain why. firstly, the rules on inspections are far more detailed and effective than before, imposing inspection action plans covering all establishments and ensuring follow-up by operators. secondly, the rights of citizens are better guaranteed. citizens will have easier access to more information, including on inspections, and their participation in land-use planning projects will be better guaranteed by strict procedures. finally, in case those rights are not respected as they should be, citizens will now have the right to go to court, in line with the eu commitment under the aarhus convention. i am convinced that this will allow citizens to exert the necessary pressure on operators and competent authorities to implement – in the best way – the seveso legislation. the way the scope of the directive has been defined was a major issue in the negotiations, and will now reinforce the level of protection of citizens and the environment as the rules will now also apply to establishments handling substances with inhalation vapour toxicity, which were previously not covered. however, we consider that there is a need to deepen our knowledge regarding substances displaying dermal toxicity. the commission is therefore making the following declaration, announcing its intention to further analyse the consequences of accidents involving such substances: ‘the commission acknowledges that the compromise reached on its proposal implies an improvement of the level of protection of human health and safety and of the environment as compared with that provided by the current seveso ii directive 96/82/ec. the commission intends to undertake a further analysis of the likelihood, risks and potential consequences of major accidents involving dangerous substances classified acute toxic 3 dermal. depending on the outcome of the analysis, the commission may present a legislative proposal to also include this category within the scope of the directive.’ this may lead to a legislative proposal to amend the scope of the directive on this point, if deemed necessary. in conclusion, the european commission can support the compromise package in order to reach an agreement on this directive at first reading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, was this a simple façade removal of an outdated law, or were we, in the light of the accidents and natural disasters since 1996, going to move towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry? it is to try to achieve this that i have agreed to be rapporteur. after listening, sharing with others, we set out to propose amendments which, without calling into question the industrial process, would make it possible to achieve greater safety for citizens and the environment, to give new rights to those who are the first to be exposed - the employees of the chemical and transport companies. let's face it, we've been heard very little. once again, money will prevail over people and progress will be minor. the problem is that there is always a gap between the broad principles discussed and the harsh day-to-day reality on the ground. this is true for industrial plants, storage facilities and the transport of dangerous goods. to escape the so-called seveso regulation, companies have chosen to reduce stocks of products classified as dangerous to leave these same products in tanks that, perhaps tonight, will sleep in your neighbourhood, waiting to be delivered tomorrow morning with all the risks that this entails. there will be no question of that. and they would have us believe that we will be better informed and better protected! beyond that, major contradictions emerge. how can we improve safety with workers who are increasingly precarious and not always properly trained? how can we ensure safety by cutting government spending? how can security be ensured when certain countries use their laxity to dump their products on the environment?
madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues, and especially mr áder and mr seeber, for the valuable work they have done on the revision of the seveso directive. it is true that there is the seveso directive and i am also thinking of the accident in france, azf - remember - in toulouse. it was september 21, 2001, when a stockpile of ammonium nitrate exploded. thirty-one people died, 2,500 were injured, who are still traumatized at this time, with incredible damage. and this was not due to a lack of management in relation to risk assessment. this was due to the subcontracting of subcontractors, i.e. untrained persons. and the best security is also the training of employees. in any case, apart from a few details, i am pleased with the final result, in particular the much-needed progress in the management of industrial risks, risks against which we must protect our citizens against the race to underinvestment in safety systems, by incorporating the requirements of the aarhus convention. this is very important for informing citizens, for transparency and as a prerequisite for the organisation of an effective risk management plan. the only drawback, commissioner, is that there is no assessment of the financial consequences of a major accident and no proof of the ability of companies to cope with it. and that, in my view, is a shortcoming of this directive.
madam president, let me tell you about my personal experience with this matter. in the context of decentralised cooperation, i have had the opportunity to work with associations in africa and to confront the reality of female genital mutilation, which mrs de keyser has just mentioned. our resolution stresses the importance of relying on local authorities and ngos. the fact that the realities on the ground are taken into account is an essential element in the fight against these practices. for example, in any programme to combat female genital mutilation, it must be borne in mind that for the women who perform it, it is a professional activity. it is sometimes their only source of income and i know from experience that many of these women are quite ready to give up their practice if they are offered a job. i wanted to share with you this testimony that corresponds to my experience. i would also like to stress the exemplary value of the delegations we send to third countries, which must be equal because that is the best way to promote the cause of equality between women and men.
madam president, with my colleagues i want to join in speaking out loudly to help bring an end to the torture of genital mutilation. the discussions that will take place in the framework of the un must not, however, make us forget what is happening in our member states and we must remind them of their obligations. i shall therefore concentrate on a particular aspect, which is complementary to those which have been discussed by my colleagues. it is estimated that 500,000 women and girls living in europe suffer the consequences of fgm for their entire lives and that 180,000 of them are at risk every year. genital mutilation is recognised as age- and gender-related persecution and, on the basis of recent jurisprudential developments, it is established that a girl or woman seeking asylum because she has been or is likely to be subjected to genital mutilation may be eligible for refugee status under the 1951 convention. however, some european member states sometimes interpret the grounds for requesting asylum in a restrictive way. the member states must, however, assume their responsibilities, because it is not acceptable to maintain fragmentation in the approaches followed by each of them. we must all join in this fight to prevent these atrocities, to prevent them from going unpunished and to protect the victims as much as possible.
author. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the pip implant case is not just a national health fraud. unfortunately, we can see how much this case has and will have an impact on the european and international level. to illustrate my point, pip implants have been sold in 71 countries around the world, or about 400,000 breast implants. this is the case for some 40 000 women in the united kingdom, 30 000 in france and 10 000 in spain. the medical devices directive will be reviewed in autumn 2012. we as legislators need to learn from this fraud and strengthen our system of surveillance and hardware surveillance for medical devices. i join the proposals of my colleagues thomas ulmer and philippe juvin, the epp rapporteurs on the resolution, who apologise for not being able to be here tonight. i call on the european commission to take account of the following recommendations. we must strengthen and harmonise inspection obligations at community level. it is urgent to establish regular, unannounced, annual monitoring at all stages of the life of a medical device. the conditions for the authorisation of notified bodies should be harmonised and the traceability, transparency and monitoring of medical devices placed on the european market should be strengthened. finally, i would like to draw your attention to a fundamental point: the need to strike a balance between protecting our european patients and supporting innovation and research. we must combine security, transparency, consistency and flexibility. the first of the coherent approaches is not to treat medical devices as medicines. there are three fundamental differences between the two: a difference in nature, a difference in time to market and a difference in terms of flows in the markets. it is therefore clear that the introduction of an ma on the market for the most high-risk medical devices would only lead to administrative burdens, additional costs, longer time to market and, above all, would be a hindrance to innovation. it's something that has to be measured on a case-by-case basis.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, we have known about the mediator scandal for some time. we now have the breast implant scandal, which unfortunately highlights - as you said, commissioner - the dysfunctions of european health security. this breast implant scandal is 14 years of fraud from 1996 to 2010 with impunity. that's 500,000 people wearing prosthetics worldwide. that's 8,000 implant withdrawals, 48 confirmed cases of cancer. that's 3,500 complaints filed. these figures are frightening, shocking. how, despite warnings from the us fda, commissioner, and the many complaints and convictions for breaking prosthetics filed in britain and france in particular, how could national and european agencies have missed such a scam? this tragedy immediately led us to think about improving the european system for the control of medical devices, as you have just explained. we must, commissioner, build a system today which is capable of avoiding scandal, but it is a new system that must be built. it's announced for the fall, you told us about this new legislation. as a co-author of this resolution, i am of course satisfied. but, commissioner, you seem to want to take account of a large part of our concerns as expressed in this resolution. so why make an exception, which is unacceptable to many of the members present? why not create a marketing authorisation for the most dangerous class 3 medical devices? commissioner dalli, can you explain your position to me?
in writing. the sale by the french company pip of defective silicone gel breast implants is a scandal in itself. it is inconceivable that this situation could have lasted for several years, that 400 000 breast implants were sold worldwide, and that without the chain of control and monitoring reacting. in future, stricter safety tests must be carried out to prevent such a tragedy from happening again, and thousands of women from being put in delicate situations that endanger their health. european cooperation and exchange of information in this field must be strengthened.
mr president, it is a very good thing that you want to simplify european regulations. it simply must not be at the expense of food security. this must not allow us to compromise the requirement of a double security, namely nutritional security and health security, especially when it comes to vulnerable populations. we're talking about the infants. we're talking about people who need low-calorie diets, like diabetics. we're talking about people who are gluten intolerant. it is totally incomprehensible that people who are intolerant to gluten or who benefit from low-calorie diets should not be included in this framework. it's incomprehensible when you consider that today one person in a hundred develops a gluten allergy. that is why we are very keen to bring gluten-free food back into the food chain so that there is better consumer protection. otherwise the repeal of strict provisions would be really harmful. we are also waiting for the european food safety authority to give its opinion on growth foods, including growth milks for children between 1 and 3 years of age, because we do not see why they should not be able to benefit from milk adapted to their needs, free of pesticides and contaminants. i take this opportunity of course to congratulate mrs ries and i am confident that parliament will be able to defend the most vulnerable consumers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr struan stevenson for his report. this report on the multiannual plan for the herring stock in the west of scotland is a testament to the importance of parliament's role in the co-decision procedure with regard to multiannual plans. i welcome the importance attached to the multiannual plan in this reform. it's a common sense approach. our number one objective in this reform is to conserve resources - as some colleagues have already said. this objective can only be achieved in close cooperation with the fisheries sector. on tuesday, the member states voted in favour of a ban on dumping into the sea. this is a very bad signal from the council. however, i would remind you that parliament is co-deciding on this reform with the council. the zero-emission policy proposed by the commission is unrealistic and dangerous for the fishing industry. what i am proposing to parliament is a significant but gradual reduction in emissions. the solution to this problem of waste can only be found in a pragmatic approach, not in a dogmatic one. finally, the commission's proposal proposes the introduction of transferable fishing concessions. this proposal alone is a very serious threat to our fishing model. the commission wants to put the management of the resource in the hands of the market. i think it is up to the member states to decide on the management of fishing rights, as is already the case today. we will not achieve a truly effective and just reform by weakening fishing activity.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, it is very surprising that the commission can say that milk producers are better off. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded, and that the milk quotas are not exceeded. at the same time, the collection and processing will also become more and more concentrated, it's already in the works. it is not too late to prevent the destruction of jobs and territories which these guidelines will bring about. this requires a return to mechanisms for regulating production and fixing basic prices covering real production costs. in this context, a european milk agency would be useful for continuously assessing milk requirements and ensuring that producer prices are respected, which are valid for all producers. we must put an end to the double price system that exists today if we are to put producers in a global economic war. i suggest, commissioner, that you listen to the opinion of the committee of the regions of europe, for example, on the reform of the common agricultural policy and producer organizations. we should not leave the milk market, which is a common public good of mankind, in the hands of the market alone.
mr president, we are currently experiencing a situation where production is increasing by more than 2.5%. at the same time, manufacturers are lowering prices. in italy, germany, england and all the european countries, prices are falling. this means very clearly that prices are linked to production volumes and we must organise production volumes and prices at the same time. at the same time, producers are now suffering from an increase of more than 44% in the price of vegetable proteins and 30% in the price of cereals. parliament has already voted here on the need to ensure that the surplus value is distributed among the producers and that farmers are not victimized by the companies and the large retailers. i therefore ask the commission today, and also the council, to look again at the question of production control, but at the same time i am very clear that the member states must do their own housework because there are countries which have respected the quota rules and others which have not. this is also why these quotas have been called into question. there is therefore a double responsibility: the commission and the member states.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr deß, i hear what you are saying and i agree with you completely. i have a very specific question about that. in the documents i have been able to collect, i see that in germany, where there are normally price negotiations between producers and buyers of milk, industrialists, cooperatives, aldi - now the large distribution group - has unilaterally decided to lower the price of a litre of milk by 6 cents. and, at the same time, all the other hard discounters just did the same thing. how do you explain the fact that in germany it is the large retailers who manage to drive prices, whereas, normally, according to the mechanisms set up by the european union, there should be discussions between manufacturers and producers. it is clear that there is a problem of dysfunction today in the rules for fixing the price of milk. how do you explain that?
in writing. i voted in favour of amending a 2008 regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the herring stock in the west of scotland. i have approved the new provisions which are adapted to the progress of scientific research. as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, i am committed to balancing economic imperatives with respect for biodiversity and believe that the fishing mortality rates and the biomass levels of the breeding stock should now be adjusted.
in writing. the european parliament has supported by a large majority the report establishing a multiannual plan for the western scotland herring stock. it proposes to amend the definition of 'stock of herring from the area west of scotland'. it also provides for the participation of the regional advisory council for high seas stocks in the multiannual plan. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. since 1982, the european union has encouraged the member states to develop a common policy for the prevention of major industrial risks. we voted for more frequent inspections and for better information to the public. this policy is a great success and we must update it.
in writing. the consequences of past chemical accidents have been disastrous for both human health and the environment, sometimes even across national borders. strengthening the prevention and control of major industrial accidents involving dangerous substances in the european union must therefore be a priority. this necessarily requires the revision of the seveso ii directive of 1996. i welcome the agreement reached with the council to adopt this regulation, which rightly calls for the introduction of clearer and more coherent provisions, the main ones being the introduction of stricter standards for the inspection of the approximately 10 000 high-risk installations in europe, the increase in the frequency and transparency of these checks, and the improvement of the general public's access to safety information and the participation of citizens in the decision-making process. i would like to welcome these measures, which were adopted overwhelmingly in plenary, and which i believe are moving in the right direction and carry a strong message. i regret, however, that they do not go further, particularly with regard to transparency and the provision of information to the public, which is essential.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this measured and realistic report, which highlights the proper functioning of the current system for the prevention and management of hazards linked to the presence and use of dangerous substances by our industries. i particularly welcome its provisions to reduce the administrative burden on businesses: the european parliament points out that a high level of protection of the environment and the health of citizens can be achieved without unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the third version of the seveso directive named after the italian village where a cloud containing dioxin was emitted in 1976 following an accident at a chemical plant. the existing rules on inspections have been strengthened. thus, high-risk sites will be inspected at least once a year, and sites with a lower risk every three years. in order to avoid the domino effects of chemical accidents, public authorities will also have the right to obtain information on nearby installations, even if these are not covered by the seveso legislation. finally, the integration of the requirements of the international aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters strengthens citizens' rights. this will enable them to have direct access via the internet to information on seveso facilities close to their homes, accident prevention programmes and emergency measures to be taken. these new requirements will make it possible to better prevent and manage accidents involving hazardous chemicals.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text which maintains and even strengthens the safety of establishments handling dangerous substances in several respects. as the tragic accidents in seveso (1976), bhopal (1994) and, more recently, the azf accident in toulouse in 2001 sadly remind us, we must do everything possible to protect ourselves against the risks of chemical accidents and their consequences. the security and even the lives of european citizens depend on it.
in writing. in the light of the accidents and natural disasters experienced since 1996, moving towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry, has become a top priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the public is not compromised by the lack of information and the lack of information on the safety of the public. increase rather than reduce public expenditure, including on security officials; sanction countries that are too lax in their security. this report refuses to do so. if these problems are not tackled at their core, then the texts voted by parliament will at best have the effect of a façade removal of a law that has been worn out by time. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the ader report by a very large majority, and i welcome that. the latter amends the proposal for a directive by extending its scope to the transport of substances and to the temporary intermediate storage of short duration directly related thereto. member states will also have to ensure that updated and revised prevention information is available to the public at all times. information on the hazardous nature of the product should be given to personnel who may be at risk. the report also deals with issues relating to the operating ban and inspections in the establishments concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'dangers arising from major accidents involving dangerous substances', which is first of all a technical harmonisation with two other texts on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures and on the registration, evaluation and limited authorisation of chemicals (reach). the text also strengthens provisions on public access to security information and access to justice.
in writing. in the light of the industrial accidents since 1976 with the explosion of the chemical plant in seveso (italy), progress towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry, has become a top priority. citizen information is a vital thing. but this report is timid, to say the least, because to really protect them, we would also need to: strengthen the security of better trained and less precarious employees, security being too often entrusted to subcontractors and temporary employees; increase rather than reduce public expenditure, including on security controls; sanction countries that are too lax in their security. this report refuses to do so. if we do not tackle these problems at their core, then the texts voted by parliament will remain wishful thinking. that's why i abstained.
in writing. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have endorsed the adoption of new rules on the labelling and content of baby food and baby food for infants and young children, to better protect consumers and increase food transparency. the food sector needs to be clearer in order to better protect consumers. as a member of the national sports conference (nsc), i believe that there is still a need to regulate products specifically for athletes.
in writing. it is clear that it has become extremely difficult for consumers to navigate the food jungle and to distinguish between food intended for everyday consumption and food intended for specific groups. for reasons of public health and consumer information, it is urgent to put an end to these ambiguities. this is the aim of the thorough revision of the existing directive, the provisions of which are now obsolete. therefore, stricter and clearer rules on the labelling and composition of specific foods for the most vulnerable groups such as infants, young children and people with special medical needs, who are clearly not ordinary consumers and therefore require special care and common standards within the eu, should be adopted as soon as possible. it is also essential to ensure that the labelling is realistic and does not contain any images which idealize the use of a product. i fully support this report and hope that the negotiations with the council will be concluded quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ries report on the proposal for a regulation on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes. this regulation concerns the revision and simplification of the framework directive on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses. the new report clarifies and simplifies the european label, while at the same time providing greater protection for consumers, especially the most vulnerable groups such as infants and those who need a strict diet. i would also like to note that this text was voted unanimously in the envi committee, which is a good start in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today a proposal for a regulation on foods for infants and young children and on foods for special medical purposes. we socialists are pleased to have secured a strengthening of the provisions on food for vulnerable people, stricter rules on composition and labelling and a framework for marketing. another important step forward was the creation of a single eu-wide list of minerals and vitamins that can be added. the only exception to this was the exclusion of infant formulae for children aged 1 to 3 years. the socialists believe it is important that milk products for infants should also be covered by this legislation.
in writing. the report aims to clarify the distinction between common and special foods and to better protect certain vulnerable populations. the benefits of this text are many for these populations and i have therefore voted in favour of it. i particularly welcome the european parliament's choice to emphasize the role of smes by encouraging their development in this sector.
in writing. food security for 'vulnerable' populations such as infants and people on special diets for medical purposes needs to be strengthened. the rules on the content and labelling of milk for babies under one year of age will now be clearer. in the end, the packaging of these products should no longer contain any representation of infants or any image which could 'idealise the use' of these milk-based preparations. the european commission will also have to look at infant formula (for children aged 12 to 36 months) and more specifically at their complex legal situation. the labelling of gluten is also concerned. food products for people with gluten intolerance should contain less than 100 mg gluten per kg and the label of the packaging should state: very low gluten content those containing less than 20 mg per kg shall be labelled gluten-free . we want more coherence and clarity in legislation: some of the measures currently in force date back to 1977 and were decided without the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which improves the protection of european consumers of dietary products. the composition and marketing of these products will now be subject to simpler and clearer rules, which will guarantee the quality of the food and reliable information for consumers. the european union is thus seeking to ensure a high level of protection against a downward levelling of the quality of products, which would threaten the health of our infants and our patients and affect our french industry, which is the leader in europe in quality dietary products.
in writing. the rules on labelling and content of infant formulae and foods for people with special medical needs need to be tightened. in general, the food sector needs to be clearer in order to better protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. this is the message that meps have sent by adopting this report by 603 votes in favour. i welcome that majority. the rules should cover, in particular, gluten intolerance and certain low-calorie diets.
in writing. we can no longer allow commercial industries to deceive european consumers. whether it is mothers and fathers who buy infant formula or those with celiac disease (gluten intolerance), we must protect them from misleading advertising. it is with this in mind that i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. this project is in line with our efforts to protect and prevent: in future, the labelling of all milk-based products for babies up to 12 months of age (including follow-on products) should not include any representation of infants or any image which could 'idealise the use' of the product. in addition, food products for people intolerant to gluten should contain less than 100 mg gluten per kg and be labelled as 'very low gluten', while food containing less than 20 mg gluten per kg could be labelled as 'gluten-free'. we have made a europe of free and undistorted competition between economic actors, let us work all the more hard for a europe which protects against the evils of this competition.
in writing. the repeal of the various directives on food intended for defined populations with a view to their inclusion in more general legislation is part of an effort to simplify and extend the rules, which should in future promote health transparency and thus the health of the populations covered by the proposal. the sector of food for special nutritional purposes (parnuts) has developed very strongly in recent years, blurring the distinction between food for specific groups and food for everyday consumption. this proposal should make it possible to draw a clear distinction for consumers and for the supervisory authorities. i regret, however, that, as the rapporteur has pointed out, this proposal for a regulation leaves a gap open on the possible addition of minerals, vitamins and other additives to the food of these fragile populations. i voted in favour of this resolution because the measures it proposes contribute to the good health of the younger generation and of the populations whose health is particularly at risk.
in writing. public consultations are an important democratic tool, allowing citizens and other stakeholders in society to participate fully in this process and to advance the eu's transparency policy. but, as is often the case, the european union does not communicate enough. i felt that information for citizens should be strengthened and made available in the 23 official languages of the european union.
in writing. i signed this resolution, which calls for all european public consultations to be translated into all the languages recognised by the countries of the european union. there is a european charter on minority languages which calls for resolute action to promote these languages, to prohibit any form of discrimination against them or to facilitate and encourage their use in public life. this resolution answers precisely that last point. such a measure would encourage citizens to turn to the european union.
in writing. under european law, the commission is obliged to translate european law and related documents into all the official languages of the union in order to enable citizens, economic operators, ngos and other interested parties to assert their rights. in reality, however, many documents are often available only in english. these include public consultations, which are addressed directly to citizens and are an essential component of the transparent development of eu policies. our resolution calls on the commission to ensure that the right of every citizen of the union to address its institutions in any official language of the eu, without discrimination, is fully respected and implemented. respect for multilingualism is a principle, a right to which i am very attached, and we must defend it
in writing. citizen involvement and participation are essential components of democratic governance. public consultations are one of the main instruments for giving substance to the union's policies and ensure their transparency. however, their potential to reduce the communication and information gap between citizens and the union has not been fully exploited. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to ensure that the right of every citizen of the union to address its institutions in all the official eu languages is respected. the commission should also ensure that public consultations are available in all official eu languages, that all consultations are treated equally and that there is no discrimination between consultations on the basis of language. i supported this resolution, which was adopted by a large majority in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on public consultations and their availability in all eu languages, which i believe is a crucial issue. if we want to keep written consultations as the tool on which the commission's legislative proposals are based, we must ensure that they are democratic, transparent and fair for all citizens. thus, if the commission chooses written consultations, it must take its responsibilities, and allocate the necessary resources to multilingualism and the translation of questionnaires.
in writing. 2013 will be the year of the citizen. i welcome this initiative by the commission, which wants to put the latter back at the heart of european political life and give it the place it deserves. however, the current context is not conducive to european enthusiasm. the eurozone crisis, the difficulties facing greece, all this does not encourage the citizen to turn to the union. and if he were to feel the urge, if he wanted to participate in a public consultation of the commission, he would still have to know how to use english or one of the other languages considered to be 'important'. by important, i also mean all the official languages within the member states, not just the 23 official languages of the eu. let's keep it consistent. if we want an engaged european citizen, we must give him the means to engage. if we want to create a real european political area, let us allow all our fellow citizens to participate in european political life.
in writing. last week, the latest developments in tibet were discussed with the eu high representative, catherine ashton, who said: 'the eu is concerned about the deterioration of the situation, recently illustrated by the wave of self-immolations.' we have asked for the appointment of a special coordinator to promote human rights in tibet. it is necessary to monitor closely what is happening there and to report regularly on the situation in the country.
in writing. vice-chair of the tibet intergroup, it is with great conviction that i co-signed and voted for this resolution on the situation in tibet. our parliament is working tirelessly to protect the tibetan people from the attacks and violence they have suffered for many years. at this session we adopted a new text which calls for the appointment of a special coordinator for respect for human rights in tibet, calls for a constructive dialogue between china and the central tibetan administration, and also calls on china to grant the tibetans their autonomy and to respect the fundamental rights (freedom of expression, freedom of belief, freedom of association, etc.) of the tibetan people. the resolution also strongly condemns china's attitude towards the tibetans: repression, condemnation, etc.
in writing. the situation in tibet is critical. tibetans are being heavily repressed by the chinese authorities for peaceful demonstrations calling for their independence. in the face of the growing self-immolation and protests of the tibetan people, parliament adopted a resolution which i supported. in the latter, parliament first recalls that the strategic partnership between the european union and the people's republic of china must be based on common principles and values. it also called on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to appoint a special coordinator whose mandate would be to report regularly on the situation in tibet. the aim is to advance respect for the fundamental rights of the tibetan people, including their right to preserve and develop their distinct identity and religious, cultural and linguistic expressions. the european union also wishes to support constructive dialogue and negotiations with the government of the people's republic of china. the people's republic of china is requested to grant a significant degree of autonomy to the historical territory of tibet.
in writing. the situation in tibet is worrying. the frequent self-immolation of tibetan monks is questionable, especially since the whereabouts of their bodies is still unknown. it is abnormal that access to tibet for the media and human rights observers is being restricted. it is essential that catherine ashton, the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs, engages on this issue and discusses the situation with the representatives of the people's republic of china.
in writing. as the european commissioner for the internal market, michel barnier, rightly pointed out: 'the 20th anniversary of the creation of the single market must be an opportunity to give a new lease of life, a new breath to our single market and to intensify the dialogue with all europeans on these issues.' this is to boost growth. but beware, we are not talking here about "growth" as the french socialists understand it, an empty shell that only rhymes with "public spending" and that would drag us into a spiral of indebtedness. we want growth based on a deepening of the internal market, innovation and the competitiveness of our enterprises.
in writing. the european parliament has spoken on the implementation of the proposals contained in the single market act. in april 2011, the commission presented 50 actions to be implemented by 2014 to rebuild a single market that is people-centred. in line with the socialist amendments to the resolution, i condemn the content of the recent legislative proposals and the commission's communications: a very liberal view remains in the light of the commission's proposals, which focus on trade facilitation at the expense of measures targeted at employment and citizens. i am glad that parliament has supported the priorities of the socialists, such as the rejection of social dumping, the promotion of quality jobs, the defence of the social protection model, the fight against tax evasion, but also an ambitious growth initiative based on the social market economy.
in writing. just over a year after the adoption of the single market act, the european union needs to implement an action programme to make the internal market work better in practice and measures to complete the liberalisation of services. the idea is to rebuild the foundations of growth on the basis of a better functioning single market. the european union would have much to gain if all the opportunities of the single market were used effectively in the fields of energy, transport, retail trade, r & d, labour mobility and financial services. the correct and timely implementation of existing legislation and measures, as well as the reduction of unnecessary administrative burdens and laws, would stimulate economic growth. so it's a matter of making what we have work well.
in writing. european citizens are at the heart of the concerns of our institutions. the completion of the single market must make their daily lives easier. it is in pursuit of this objective that commissioner barnier proposed the single market act in 2010, supplemented in 2011 by 12 levers to stimulate growth and strengthen confidence in europe. on wednesday 13 june, commissioner barnier presented the commission's intentions for the future of the single market act to meps in plenary. a second single market act will be presented in september this year. in preparing this new document, the european parliament made the following comments, with which i fully agree: reduce the administrative burden and modernise our administrations, put the sectors which have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens and consumers at the heart of our actions, give priority to the fight against youth unemployment, promote smes and their essential contribution to economic growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the single market act. this resolution is indispensable in that it calls on the commission to propose a 'growth initiative' which is needed to open up the single market further and unleash growth in the european union. the resolution also calls on the commission to adopt, by the end of 2012, the levers to stimulate growth and strengthen confidence in europe.
in writing. the single market, by removing barriers to the free movement of goods and capital, underpins european economic growth. it is essential that all measures to open up the single market are properly implemented and applied. similarly, administrative burdens must be reduced in order to stimulate growth: we have set member states the target of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens by 2015. finally, i support the use of the unused resources of the european union to combat youth unemployment.
our single market is a free-movement area for our businesses. but this large market is made up mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises. as a result of the consultation on company law, we have identified the main points which should form our reflection. we need to facilitate crossborder business operations, improve the regime for crossborder mergers and measures on crossborder divisions. the problem of the codification of company law is also on the table. we need to create a european model of corporate governance, in line with our values.
in writing. as european companies increasingly tend to operate on a cross-border scale, there is an urgent need to adapt our european regulatory framework for company law and corporate governance. the european parliament adopted a resolution in plenary calling on the commission to present an action plan as soon as possible. this action plan will have to set out the initiatives to be taken in the short, medium and long term to improve the regulatory framework of european company law.
in writing. this resolution, which i support, follows the commission's consultation on the future of european company law. it should be noted that the law is currently fragmented and complements the company law of the member states. this incompleteness may discourage companies from establishing themselves or operating in another eu member state, thus preventing them from taking full advantage of the internal market. we therefore encourage the commission to continue its work on the 14th directive on the crossborder transfer of registered offices, in order to facilitate the mobility of companies in europe. i would stress this point, however, so that the national criteria for linking are not called into question. as regards the regulatory framework for smes, the draft european private company must be concluded. the project, which is part of the small business act, could promote the economic development of smes and, more generally, of unlisted companies by providing them with a simple statute and a uniform organization relatively independent of national legislation. the key will be to strike a balance between the flexibility of the model chosen and its degree of harmonisation, to ensure its attractiveness while avoiding law shopping between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text for a job-creating recovery. we must now be aware that economic activities in europe are changing and we need a conversion of our economy. we want sustainable growth, not illusory growth as advocated by the french socialists who continue to operate on economic models from another time! the job-creating recovery aims to facilitate entrepreneurial activity, to create new businesses, and to create new jobs.
in writing. a few weeks after adopting a resolution on youth employment in europe, i supported today the adoption of the resolution 'towards a job-rich recovery', which accompanies our question to the commission. given the millions of jobs lost in europe since the start of the crisis, how does the commission intend to ensure that wages in the member states enable citizens to escape poverty and create jobs? how will the commission put to use the studies carried out on the structural cause of unemployment, namely the gap between skills and labour market needs? in this resolution we reiterate our commitment to social progress and decent work and reaffirm our support for the initiative of a european youth guarantee. finally, we reiterate the absolute need for a 'european investment pact' that would shift from the unilateral approach of fiscal austerity to a more balanced approach to creating sustainable growth and jobs in key sectors such as the green economy, health and social services and information and communication technologies, which we urgently need.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal 'towards a job-creating recovery'. the measures indicated are at the heart of the objectives of full employment and social cohesion which the european union urgently needs. they encourage member states to promote measures to create jobs and reform the european labour market. encouraging the recruitment of young people, supporting the development of smes, promoting labour mobility and addressing the skills mismatch are concrete policies that need to be implemented rapidly. to stimulate job-creating growth, we must also strengthen the coordination of collective bargaining and the maintenance of the purchasing power of employees. i particularly support the idea that the fight against poverty should be focused on ensuring a living wage and equal access to universal and quality public and social services.
in writing. at a time when the european council should be discussing a growth initiative, alongside other heavy dossiers, we must keep in mind the first expectation of europeans: to keep or to get back to work. the social situation is becoming more difficult by the day: we are living under the threat of a lost generation, 5.6 million young people are unemployed, one in five young europeans. we socialists welcome the new attitude of the commission on several hitherto taboo subjects, such as the minimum wage. this is a major issue if we are to solve the problems of poverty and internal imbalances within the european union.
in writing. with this resolution, i wanted to show my commitment to a growth initiative at a time when the economic and social situation continues to deteriorate and is hitting many young people very hard. this initiative is crucial on the eve of a european summit which, instead of dealing with yet another round of austerity measures, should finally address the question of growth. i welcome the commission's commitment to the introduction of decent minimum wages to reduce the phenomenon of the working poor and social dumping, and the plan to create a european youth guarantee to guarantee young people access to employment or training after a period of inactivity of up to four months. in this debate, however, i regret that the conservatives are still opposed to the coordination of collective bargaining at european level, to the raising of the purchasing power of employees in those countries which can do so, and to equal access to public and social services.
in writing. since the start of the economic and financial crisis in 2008, more than 6 million jobs have been lost in the eu. if we are to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we need to create 17.6 million jobs. the european parliament, in this resolution, calls for investment measures to exploit the potential for job creation in the green economy, health and new technology sectors. i supported this report when it was voted in plenary. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
in writing. i supported the proposal by my colleague isabelle durant on female genital mutilation (fgm), which is still today an irreparable, irreversible abuse, affecting 140 million women and girls today. we have called on the united nations, the commission and any member state which has not yet made this practice a criminal offence at national level. such abuse should not exist in the 21st century!
in writing. female genital mutilation affects 140 million women and girls and 3 million girls are also at risk of female genital mutilation each year. in this context, the resolution provides for three main points. the first is to ask the un general assembly to adopt, at its 67th session, a resolution aimed at eliminating female genital mutilation in the world. the second is to encourage member states to ratify international conventions in this field. it also called on the commission to pay particular attention to female genital mutilation as part of a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. i supported this resolution, which was adopted in plenary, and i welcome it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution of the resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation, which is a form of abuse for non-medical reasons, on children if the girls are minors. it is therefore necessary to integrate it into the fight against female genital mutilation in a comprehensive and coherent approach to combating violence against women. we therefore hope that the un general assembly will adopt a resolution at its 67th session to eliminate genital mutilation in the world. furthermore, since female genital mutilation is often performed on young girls, it is a violation of the rights of the child.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i always support the texts which promote steps towards greater equality between women and men. the fight against violence against women is unfortunately an integral part of this, and female genital mutilation is one of the daily horrors suffered by thousands of women, mainly in africa but not only. although in theory, genital mutilation is now legally prohibited in most countries of the world, political will and concrete actions to combat this practice remain mostly superficial. these phenomena of violence against women, as well as those affecting children and in particular girls, can only be reduced by comprehensive policies and in particular by cooperative policies aimed primarily at combating poverty and all inequalities in access to education, health and social rights. despite its shortcomings, i can only share the findings of this report and that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. following the pip breast implants scandal, we voted in favour of establishing a register, stricter controls and traceability of these implants, and prior marketing authorisation. i spoke in plenary on this subject. this case has had and unfortunately will have an impact on the european and international level. the number of women affected in the uk is about 40 000, in france 30 000, and in spain 10 000... as legislators, we need to learn from this fraud and strengthen the system of surveillance and hardware surveillance for medical devices. we must strengthen and harmonise inspection obligations at community level. there is an urgent need for regular, unannounced and annual monitoring at all stages of the life cycle of a medical device. the conditions for the authorisation of notified bodies should be harmonised and the traceability, transparency and monitoring of medical devices placed on the european market should be strengthened. a balance must be struck between protecting our european patients and supporting innovation and research. we must combine security, transparency, consistency and flexibility.
in writing. the pip breast implant scandal that broke in december 2011 exposed the lack of cooperation between member states and the dysfunction of the medical device traceability system. more than 400 000 breast implants from the french company pip have been marketed worldwide despite non-compliance with quality criteria. the european union must react and learn from this case. the legislation on medical devices needs to be revised. measures to prevent a new health scandal from occurring must be taken as soon as possible. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, which explicitly calls for increased controls and monitoring of the medical device market and for greater information sharing between the competent national authorities to ensure a better level of protection of patient safety. we also call for the introduction of a number of practical measures, such as prior authorization for the marketing of the most risky medical devices, a register of breast implants and an implant recipient passport, which the commission should now put into practice.
in writing. the pip breast implant scandal which broke in march 2010 has highlighted the glaring dysfunctions of european health security. these many tragedies force us to make a thorough review of the functioning of the european and national bodies responsible for health matters. the european parliament's reaction is scandalous: the resolution, which i voted for, calls for greater cooperation between the member states and for greater control of medical devices placed on the market. i think it is an ambitious resolution, since it also invites the commission to consider a system of pre-market authorisation for certain categories of medical devices.
in writing. the pip breast prosthesis scandal has exposed all the flaws in the breast implant legislation. indeed, for years one company was able to sell implants with defective gel to thousands of women around the world without worry. in matters of public health, there can be no half measures. that is the message i wanted to convey by voting for this resolution which proposes a strict framework to ensure that such a failure does not happen again. we are obviously calling for more safety checks, but also and above all for greater traceability and a more stringent system of marketing authorization.
in writing. the resolution on defective silicone gel breast implants manufactured by the french company pip, for which i was the epp rapporteur, was adopted by a large majority at the june plenary session. i'm glad you did. the main objectives of this resolution were to strengthen and harmonise the criteria for the authorisation and the roles (including control) of notified bodies, the supervision of notified bodies by the competent national authorities, and to raise public awareness of the health issues surrounding the use of medical devices. the resolution also calls for greater market surveillance and material surveillance. this resolution was generally supported by all political groups. unfortunately, the paragraphs referring to the establishment of a marketing authorisation for class iib and iii medical devices were adopted (paragraphs 7 and 16). my colleagues in the other political groups did not realise that such a system would be totally inadequate to the nature and commercial life of a medical device. a medical device is not comparable to a drug.
in writing. the pip breast implant scandal is a disgrace. nearly 90,000 women in the european union are reported to have been victims. parliament had to react and that is why i voted for this resolution on pip breast implants, which specifically calls for the quality of controls by certification bodies to be improved and for the traceability of breast implants to be improved in order to guarantee women safe and supervised operations. we in parliament have a duty to protect the interests of the european citizens, and their health must therefore be our undeniable priority. the health of our fellow citizens should no longer be endangered by a medical malpractice, or at the mercy of the greed of a man now charged with aggravated fraud and manslaughter .
in writing. breast surgery is now one of the most common cosmetic surgeries in europe. the manufacture of industrial silicone implants by the french company pip, a strictly prohibited material for medical products, has raised many concerns, especially because several patients who received these implants will have to undergo a new operation. fortunately, these deviations are rare thanks to high health standards, both at national and european level. but the main reason for this is the fierce competition between some medical companies, which are trying to use the cheapest possible raw materials to the detriment of patients and public health. the text adopted calls for these standards to be strengthened, in particular for better cooperation between member states on the control of medical devices and for the commission to set up a system of prior authorization for certain categories of such devices. i am anxious to support all efforts to improve health protection and have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
author. - mr president, the sahel region, already heavily affected by climate change and weakened by the presence of aqim, is being destabilised by the war in libya and the return of heavily armed mercenaries. the risk of a merger between certain islamist groups and the tuareg rebellion is a matter of concern to us, but it must force us to understand the causes. the financial austerity policies imposed on africa by international institutions over the past 30 years, external interference and the exploitation of natural resources have led to impoverishment. in mali, the population has seen little of the positive social and economic benefits that should have come from gold production. mali is the third largest gold producer in africa. the malian mining code does not impose any constraints on mining companies in terms of environmental and social responsibility. this weakness in the law makes malian soil extremely attractive. now it is uranium that is coveted by a french company that drills and works in total disregard for the people and the environment, provoking the mobilization of the inhabitants of the municipality of faléa. in niger, france has been mining uranium for 40 years and the situation of the local population has not improved at all. on april 25th, the staff of the imouraren site went on strike to protest against the terrible working conditions, claiming to work 12 hours a day. niger, which exports 60% of its uranium, supplies nearly 40% of areva's supplies, which plans to develop what will be the world's second largest uranium mine. niger is ranked among the last countries on the planet in terms of human development index. the local population, mostly tuareg, has long suffered the almost irreversible health consequences of this irresponsible exploitation: air pollution and contamination of the region's scarce water resources. in conclusion, this is another economic and human development that europe must promote in this region. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you for your question. i agree with you completely. that is what i intend to do, and what my political organisation, europe ecology-the greens, is already beginning to do in france: to put pressure on this government to change our relations with africa in general and with mali in particular, since this is what is at stake at the moment, and with niger. we want to put an end to what we in france call françafrique. i don't know if you know the formula. i do share that concern.
author. - mr president, the sahel is one of the poorest regions in the world. in the last decade or so, climate change has had dramatic consequences in terms of famine and displacement. at the same time, it has become a no-law zone, where all kinds of trafficking have developed: hub of drug trafficking to europe, in particular, trafficking in human beings, arms trafficking, exploitation of migrant populations. the libyan conflict and the malian coup d'état - the latter being probably partly linked to the former - have only made things worse. this area has a great potential in terms of natural resources, but this only sharpens the appetites of outsiders, whether they come from certain states or from a few large multinational companies, especially french, whose interests are at least distant from those of the local populations, if not worse, some of these companies having means sometimes higher than those of the states themselves. the european union set up a sahel strategy in march 2011 which was supposed to address security and development issues. in view of what has happened in mali, one can question the relevance of the actions taken. some observers have even questioned whether this security policy of supporting the official military forces has not, on the contrary, made things worse and indirectly fuelled, in part, the rebellion in the north of the country. it would be worth some development, but the time allotted to me does not allow it. it is clear that the european union and france in particular are actually losing influence in the regions. libya and algeria, for very different but related reasons, are no longer playing the roles they have for a long time. new actors are intervening, starting with china, but also the united states, the south american states, not to mention the states of the arabian peninsula, which are increasing the construction of salafist mosques, shaking up the moderate islam practiced by the local populations. this area is a powder keg and the local people are the first victims, especially the women. the european union's strategy for the region must indeed be reviewed because, at the moment, it does not address either development or security problems. under european influence, a genuine decentralization is gradually being introduced. decentralised cooperation, local development and support for a cooperative economy, as advocated by the international labour office, should be the main focus of this reform of the european strategy if we are to avoid this region falling into total chaos and if we are to really help the people of the sahel.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr preda, i agree with all the reasons you have mentioned, but you have forgotten what i have mentioned in my speech. you're not talking about mining, mining, natural resources, uranium in niger. do you really think that this has no consequences for the destabilization of the region and for poverty?
author. - mr president, in the philippines, ngos continue to report cases of torture, extrajudicial executions, enforced disappearances and political assassinations of activists, particularly left-wing ones, and journalists. while the number of such murders appears to be decreasing, reporters without borders says that it is one of the countries with the highest number of predators of press freedom in the world. corruption continues to be rampant and facilitates impunity, especially in the military. certainly, reforms have been announced, the rome statute has been ratified and the trial of the perpetrators of the maguindanao massacre, where more than thirty journalists were killed, the worst massacre of journalists ever seen in the world, is underway. we welcome this, but the concrete results are hard to come by and the witness protection measures announced seem a mild understatement, as the abominable murder of esmail amin enog, who was cut up with a chainsaw, shows. he is one of the main witnesses in the trial of the ampatuan family, who ordered the maguindanao massacre. he's the third witness killed in this case. the european epjust programme has been increased from eur 4 million to eur 10 million. its aim is to improve criminal justice to put an end to extrajudicial executions and enforced disappearances. i have some doubts about the effectiveness of this programme.
author. - mr president, a few days ago the kurds of iran commemorated the second anniversary of the death of farzad kamanga, a young teacher of 31 years, who was hanged after four years of imprisonment and torture. his crime: being an enemy of god. a few days ago, there was also the trial of six ahwazi arabs. veronique de keyser has spoken of it. they were accused of being enemies of god. their crime: defending the rights of the minority to which they belong and commemorating the killings that had taken place against this minority during previous protests. the same is true of all the minorities in this country: baha'is, azeri, baloch and all the others. it is not good to belong to a cultural or religious minority in iran. it's not good to be a woman in iran. it is not a good time to be living in iran, where the number of executions seems to be accelerating and also affecting a growing number of minors. so we multiply the resolutions. what's the purpose? probably to give us a good conscience until next time. everyone here knows that the iranian authorities have nothing to do with it, so pass the phrase. there are, however, many other subjects on which we could have spoken more usefully, such as the sentence in turkey of ten years in prison for mrs leyla zana, who was awarded the sakharov prize.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a single european railway area is a good policy of european integration. this is a good policy, in which the building of europe is at the heart of the daily concerns of europeans. europe, which is too often criticised for its failure, is at last, with this directive, showing the way to a major sustainable transport policy and opening the way to a major railway investment policy for employment. i welcome the main measures taken in the organisation of the railway network: the establishment of national regulators in each member state, the creation of a five-year multiannual investment contract stipulating the commitments to finance rail infrastructure, but i also welcome the establishment of transparency in financial flows between managers and operators within the framework of integrated undertakings, the call for non-discriminatory access to certain services and, finally, i welcome the confirmation, as requested by the european parliamentarians, of certain guarantees, particularly at the social level, for example the absence of a reference to the minimum service and the total unbundling between managers and the operator. but let me make one point: the european commission in particular must stop considering the liberalization of the railway sector as the only strategic horizon for the development of a single railway area. the commission is therefore proposing to set up a european integrated investment strategy to promote employment in europe. i would therefore like to ask you a question in conclusion, commissioner kallas. three days after the european council of 28 and 29 june, after the approval of a €120 billion growth pact to boost the european economy, in particular through investment in infrastructure, can you tell us, commissioner, how much money the european railway sector is likely to benefit from this growth pact?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mrs serracchiani for the difficult work she has done in difficult circumstances and i would like to share the pleasure of my colleagues in this progress in the field of railway integration. i shall not go over all the points which have already been raised on several occasions. i wanted to express my regret that the european railway is no longer an omnibus that stops at every station, but let us hope that it will still end up in a safe harbour. on the other hand, i welcome this step, albeit incomplete, towards a single railway market and towards its liberalisation pending the fourth railway package, which is simply expected to deliver what we want for all sectors, namely openness, a single market, fair competition, fair liberalisation and fair separation for a fair market between infrastructure providers and rail service providers. hope is life! we shall continue to travel, mr president, at the speed of the european railway.
mr president, nothing is being done about it, the views of the european citizens and, in particular, those who are devoted to making the public rail service work against all odds are not being heard. we are moving inexorably towards the total liberalisation of rail and the dismantling of public rail services throughout europe in the name of free competition, disguised in this case under the pretty name of 'non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and services'. it is not important that the interests of the users are taken into account, it is not important that the prices of rail transport continue to rise, it is not important that the number of rail accidents is increasing, it is not important that instead of guaranteeing access for all, trains are becoming less and less accessible to the poorest while those who can afford them have access to increasingly extravagant services. it does not matter that these policies are increasingly moving freight from rail to road with the known ecological consequences. the european parliament, on top of that, wants to go further than the council, and thus deprives itself of the right to co-decision, while the commission and the unelected supervisory authorities will be given exorbitant powers. we certainly do not share the view of the general interest, at least not that of the socialist rapporteur. it is not when the public service is totally destroyed that we can save it.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the positive views from the committee on international trade, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on our proposal. jürgen creutzmann deserves special thanks for his hard work on this report. protecting intellectual property rights is a must in our knowledge-based economy. we tabled a comprehensive ipr strategy a year ago and put emphasis on enforcement. in view of your debates and reflections on the proposal, i would like to convey three messages. firstly, let me stress that there are no rights without enforcement. legislators who have granted intellectual property rights and customs are well placed to enforce them. the commission therefore sees no reason to exclude a priori any type of ipr infringement from the scope of the regulation. secondly, the reverse should also hold true, namely: no enforcement without rights. how ipr projection relates to the freedom of transit and justified derogations should be addressed in the substantive laws where ipr are established and not when discussing the competence of enforcement authorities. a reverse burden of proof on the final destination of the goods in transit does not feature in current substantive law, so if, following your proposal, customs were to detain goods, they would eventually have to let them go, as there would be no evidence of infringement in the eu. i am well aware of the constraints expressed on medicines in transit. plainly speaking, there was a problem, and we have dealt with it by involving stakeholders, engaging constructively with international partners and proposing revised legislation. i would therefore caution against any last minute amendments which disregard the efforts made and might have unexpected consequences. as regards the destruction of goods in cases of alleged complex infringements such as patents, the commission maintains that goods should never be destroyed without legal proceedings unless there is the express agreement of the parties concerned. this leads me to my third message, namely that we need to follow a practical and reasonable approach. to deal effectively with massive flows of small consignments we need a definition and procedure that works in practice. the definition is not straightforward and would need to evolve with new trends. the threshold should therefore be better defined in a delegated act. a reasonable approach means that customs should detain goods only where there is adequate evidence. ‘reasonable’ also means that operators deserve to be heard in advance when customs decide to detain goods. in conclusion, by equipping customs with tools to ensure the strong, reasonable and practicable enforcement of well-established intellectual property rights, i hope the eu will continue to set the gold standard at international level.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - mr president, commissioner, as the representative of the committee on international trade i would like to stress first of all the importance of this regulation, both for trade and for consumers, as it seeks to strengthen intellectual property rights and the fight against counterfeiting, which has increased so much - and so alarmingly - in recent years. i would also like to point out that it focuses solely and exclusively on the role of the customs authorities in protecting intellectual property rights, without changing the substantive law governing this. the amendment of the law is therefore still very much needed and i would ask the commission to come forward in the not too distant future with a proposal which responds to the current context of intellectual property rights. and finally, i would like to stress the call for the exclusion of generic medicines in transit from this regulation, in order to avoid their being detained at our frontiers without a justified reason and thus allowing them to reach third countries that need them.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this revision of the 2003 regulation coincides with the general awareness of the damage caused by counterfeiting. on a human level, as we have heard, it is about the health and safety of the citizens. they are under threat because counterfeiting is not limited to luxury goods but also to toys and medicines, for example. the figures speak for themselves in economic and social terms: european companies lose €250 billion a year to counterfeiting, which also destroys 100,000 jobs every year. this is an intolerable situation in the context of the economic crisis we are going through. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr creutzmann, because the imco committee has worked on this matter with good intelligence to arrive at a balanced report which ensures effective protection of rights holders and fair and proportionate application of procedures. as far as the scope is concerned, we have excluded personal luggage and parallel imports. in the field of procedural guarantees, we have drawn a distinction between economic operators, who are familiar with customs procedures, and the final consumer, who can be heard and must be protected. finally, on the question of generic medicines, the commission's text has been clarified to bring it into line with the european union's international commitments. the socialist group and the gue/ngl group have called for even stricter control of customs intervention through amendments. the epp group will support these amendments 109, 110 and 121. finally, a compromise text was proposed to the council by the presidency and accepted by the delegations on 14 june. the vote tomorrow will therefore determine parliament's position on the opening of these negotiations with the council.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur, mr seeber. i think that this report does indeed offer a clear vision of the challenges of implementing water legislation in particular, and it also gives a very good overview of possible solutions, especially for more comprehensive and coherent policies for this vital resource and for its preservation. among the important positive elements to be urgently addressed, the report reaffirms that water is a common good of mankind and that an integrated approach is necessary, it recalls the obligation to measure water use in all sectors and for all users in all countries of the european union, and it calls once again for an objective analysis and urgent review, or even the elimination, of all public subsidies and financing that are detrimental to the preservation of water quality. among the regrets, it is regrettable that not enough emphasis has been placed on the urgency of reducing urban, industrial and agricultural diffuse pollution by all means. the commitments to aquatic ecosystems and biodiversity, including regulation of our soils, need to be strengthened if we are to achieve good status for the whole of the european union, which unfortunately will not be the case in 2015. we have tools to develop and harmonize, but also and above all objectives to implement as soon as possible. all we have to do is implement them. we are counting on the european commission to ensure that.
mr president, the report before us contains a number of positive points, particularly as regards the at least differentiated assessment of the implementation of european legislation and also as regards the essential fields of action. but that's where it stops. when we look at the evolution of these issues, it seems to me that we are missing the essential issue, the democratic issue of this issue, the issue of the citizen mobilization that it gives rise to in many european countries, as well as the reactions of the local authorities, who, under this pressure, are increasingly returning to public management of water under control. the report by my colleague and friend, nikolaos chountis, does not seem to have been sufficiently taken into account. worse, beyond words, it does not really take into account the un's recognition as a human right in july 2010 of the right to access to safe drinking water and sanitation. if we are to regard water as a common good for all mankind and all life on earth, we must not regard it as a mere commodity, as a good subject to profit and profit. it is time to denounce the damage done by privatization in terms of sanitation, health and water prices, and the drift and monopoly of a few european multinationals all over the world.
madam president, we will have a debate on acta tomorrow, but i would like to address a matter tonight, which is peripheral but which i consider extremely important in this regard. these were the words of commissioner de gucht in the committee on international trade on wednesday 20 june. i quote: 'if you decide to vote against before the european court of justice has ruled, let me tell you that the commission will nevertheless continue the current procedure before the court of justice. we've committed ourselves to it. a negative vote will not stop the proceedings before the court of justice.' not only do these words seem to me to be in contempt of the treaties, but above all, and this is what i want to denounce, they show an unacceptable contempt for the european parliament, for democracy in general and for the citizens we represent. at a time when the european citizens as a whole...
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the report on the development of macro-regional strategies and their future prospects, particularly in the mediterranean, is concerned with two issues. firstly, the future programming period 2014-2020, in particular in the area of territorial cooperation in cohesion policy. the macro-regional strategy, launched in the baltic sea three years ago, opens up a new field of development and synergies for the european union's policies within the same living area, whether it be a sea area, a mountain range or a river basin. the other problem is the crisis which the mediterranean area is currently going through on its european side, with the debt crisis, and on the other side, since the arab spring and the events which have affected all these countries in the european union's neighbourhood. the macro-regional strategy improves the effectiveness of the union's regional development policies. it gives you the big picture. it strengthens strategies between regions and states and also between the various development tools of the union, such as the european investment bank and the neighbourhood and pre-accession policies. this report therefore proposes to go further in the development of macro-regional strategies. it suggested that the commission coordinate a process of consultation and reflection on future projects. it stressed in particular the importance of such an approach in the mediterranean area. in this area, which is vital for the future of europe, such an approach must be taken as soon as possible, in a pragmatic and concerted manner. the first step is to approve the adriatic-ionian strategy, which covers the central mediterranean area and the adriatic sea. this is a very advanced, widely coordinated project, which will be a first step. it will lead to similar approaches in the western and eastern mediterranean and, through good coordination, to a comprehensive strategy for the whole mediterranean area. the difficulties facing the european mediterranean are great. regional development policy, in particular its territorial cooperation component, is a fundamental tool for finding sustainable solutions. the macro-regional strategy builds on existing budgets without requiring new financial means. what is needed is not just new funds but new projects. the macro-regional strategy is likely to bring about such projects, with real involvement of local actors, whether institutional - states and regions - or otherwise, through multi-level governance. in its conclusion, the report calls on the commission to contribute its experience and support to this project, and on the future cypriot presidency to encourage its emergence in the coming months. during the preparation of this report, i met with many of the officials concerned. the desire for cooperation around such a project of macro-regional strategy is very important throughout the mediterranean area. this is an eco-opportunity which must be seized to send a positive and promising signal to a mediterranean area which, as a whole, is affected by the crisis. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development, and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, who have shown - and their very many amendments show - a great interest in this report. i also thank the committee on culture and its rapporteur, mrs benarab-attou, and the committee on foreign affairs and its rapporteur, mr salavrakos, for the work they have produced, which has considerably enriched the report i have presented to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i should like to add a few words to what mr françois alfonsi has said, to whom i pay tribute. macro-regional strategies offer particularly interesting prospects for decentralised cooperation projects in the mediterranean region. i think this framework is appropriate to the problems of this region, where the events of the past year should encourage us to develop active neighbourhood policies, especially for young people. i would like to emphasize three points in particular. firstly, cooperation in the field of youth, by promoting the european programmes devoted to youth and by creating synergies with the work of the mediterranean youth office, which must be better known. secondly, networking of euro-mediterranean universities and removing obstacles to the movement of students, teachers and researchers by facilitating visa procedures, especially for these groups. it's essential and urgent. thirdly, the quality of teaching and research in these networks by adequately supporting and financing the tempus and erasmus mundus programmes, and - i stress this - by automatically granting visas to these audiences when they integrate these european programmes. i thank mr alfonsi for his fruitful cooperation and all my colleagues who have contributed to this report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, president of the commission, distinguished leaders of the political groups, members of the european parliament and members of the commission, it is a privilege and a great honour to address this parliament again. when i last stood here, back in january, i ended my speech by saying that the economic crisis had put the european union to the test. that was when we took over the presidency at a time of unprecedented crisis in the history of the union. the gravity of the situation, the depth of the challenge, the severity of the predicament facing our union could not and should not be underestimated, and i said this right at the beginning of our presidency – not to lower the expectations for the danish presidency but rather to make clear exactly what is at stake as the eu tries to work its way out of this crisis. during the past month the eu has been forced to take critical decisions which will lay the foundation for the europe of tomorrow, of next year and of decades to come. this is no easy task in a union as vast, diverse and complex as ours, but leaders throughout europe must never lose sight of the core of the problem facing the eu today: that our very economic foundation, our future prosperity, the hopes and dreams and aspirations of our children are at risk. the storm has not passed yet and we are still facing a number of different and intertwined challenges. so i am reminded at this time of the inspirational words of the first chancellor of west germany, konrad adenauer, who once said: ‘the unity of europe was the dream of a few. it became the hope of many. today it has become a necessity for all of us.’ those words have perhaps never been as true as they are today. the eu is a necessity to all of us. as representatives of the european institutions we have and we feel an obligation to find the solutions which will bring our union forward, and we know that we owe that to our citizens. when i stood here in january i proudly stated that i am a european at heart, and the past six months have only reassured me in my belief in the european project. i believe in our institutions, our cooperation and our common responsibility. if we seek to ensure solidarity, growth and prosperity we must seek it together through common solutions to common problems. and that is what our presidency has been all about: ensuring solidarity, growth and prosperity together. we took upon ourselves the task of proving that the eu still works and is still capable of delivering necessary results for our citizens, and we did this inspired by someone that we all know. in 1950 he said: ‘europe will not be made all at once, or according to a single plan. it will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity.’ of course, it was robert schuman who said this, and the subsequent history of european integration has proved him absolutely right. there is an unequivocal truth in schuman’s words. our union is built from its very foundation with bricks made of solidarity. some stones have been small, some have been enormous but, brick by brick, we have strengthened our cooperation and solidarity with one another. this is to me the essence of our union: and this is what we have tried to do – to work inch by inch in creating results. jobs and growth, financial responsibility, a greener economy and a safe europe: these have been the priorities of the danish presidency. but priorities without tangible results are just empty words, and i believe that europe has, in fact, delivered over the past months. the compact for growth and jobs adopted last week in the european council is the perfect completion of our presidency. the compact does not solve all europe’s problems but it is a light in the dark for the many european citizens feeling the harsh effects of the economic crisis. for those outside the labour market, for those without opportunities, for those facing poor prospects, including not least our young generations, we are presenting a way forward. it is a result of our persistent efforts to promote growth and new jobs in europe but, of course, our work does not end here. we must be vigilant in transforming this compact from a piece of paper into practical reality. we must find a way to ensure that together – member states, the commission and the european parliament – we roll out the measures contained in the compact. we have a situation in which, for the first time in the history of the european union, we cannot assume that the coming generations will enjoy more prosperity and better opportunities than we have enjoyed. that, of course, leaves us with a huge responsibility for the conditions of our citizens and businesses, which has been a top priority for our presidency. let me highlight a few of the main results reached during our presidency. under the headline of ‘a more dynamic europe’, the danish presidency has pushed for robust eu measures in areas such as research and education, infrastructure and the single market, and we have done this to boost growth and to kick-start a job-rich recovery. i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in achieving a historic compromise in the european council on the patent reform, after more than 30 years of negotiations. this could mean drastic cost savings for businesses across europe: savings that can be used to promote new jobs. we may not see eye to eye on all elements of this compromise but i truly hope that we can work as co-legislators to see the patent reform become a reality to benefit our companies. i am also very pleased that we have adopted the roaming regulation. this regulation will lower prices significantly for cellphone users in member states and will reduce costs to and the burden on companies. in short, it can contribute to growth. another important result is the regulation on the european system of standardisation. the agreement reached here will modernise the single market. furthermore, we have reached agreement on the proposal on venture capital and social entrepreneurship funds. this will boost access to funding for european businesses and social entrepreneurs. of course, this is also an important step in trying to create growth in the eu. we know that the single market has been one of the greatest achievements of the eu, and in order to realise its full potential we must continue to reform and modernise it. the second main objective of our presidency was to ensure a more responsible europe. the need for fiscal consolidation and greater budget discipline is crucial if we want to safeguard against the financial crisis of tomorrow. we have also taken important steps in this field during the danish presidency. the council agreement on the two-pack will enable stronger european monitoring of budgetary plans being drafted by members of the eurozone. stronger common rules will reinforce the vigilance of member states in avoiding large imbalances and unsustainable debt levels. we have come far, and i urge a rapid agreement between the council and parliament during the cypriot presidency. a similar important step is the directive on capital requirements, on which the council agreed its position last month. this directive will help minimise the cost and the risk of a financial crisis hitting us again as it did in 2008. furthermore, we have worked for a stronger commitment by member states to implement structural reforms. the completion of the first full round of the european semester is a decisive step towards a more responsible europe. all these results will help to increase confidence in europe’s financial system, and i am in no doubt that these surveillance measures will lead to greater political accountability and stronger budget discipline. finally, we have been working hard to streamline the next eu budget so that it helps to create growth in the union, and we took an important step last week in the european council. here too, i would very much like to thank parliament for its constructive cooperation throughout. it is our firm conviction that we need to direct more funds towards growth-enhancing areas such as research, education, energy efficiency and green technology. that has to be the way forward for the eu. ‘measures that will inspire growth and stronger job creation’ has been the mantra for the danish presidency throughout these six months, and i am pleased to note that the european council placed strong emphasis on this last week. as you also know, the transition to a green economy has been among the most important political priorities for the danish presidency, and i warmly welcome the common agreement reached on the energy efficiency directive. this was a landmark result which required a good deal of flexibility, patience and hard work on both sides, and i would like to thank everyone here who was involved in reaching this significant milestone. without you we could not have done it. this directive is of key importance in our efforts to achieve our two interrelated goals, of transforming europe into a competitive, low-carbon economy and increasing our energy security, all at once. in addition, the directive will create up to hundreds of thousands of new jobs in europe, and it will of course ensure that the eu gets much closer to our target of 20% energy savings by 2020. i consider this an excellent result. i would like to underline my appreciation of the dedication, high level of ambition, and willingness to compromise demonstrated by the european parliament on this road to the green transition. your continued engagement in making our economy greener will be ever more needed in the years to come. underpinning our aspiration for a dynamic, responsible and greener europe is the need to ensure a safe europe. denmark’s presidency has reached a wide range of tangible results in this field. we have granted candidate status to serbia and are opening accession negotiations with montenegro, which will influence the regional dynamics and contribute to stabilising the western balkans. we have also reached agreement on essential elements of the asylum package, which will help ensure efficiency, legal rights and more uniform asylum procedures in the member states. together with parliament and the commission, we have managed to conclude a lot of important business. and today i am pleased to say that we were able to reach important agreements only thanks to constructive cooperation with you – the parliament, with the commission and, of course, with the member states in the council. as i see it, the achievements of the danish presidency are also the achievements of the european parliament. we all play our part in realising the huge potential of the community method. having different responsibilities, playing different roles, and on some occasions defending diverging interests, the council and parliament will not always share the same view. the heated debate on the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism was, indeed, a case in point, but i drew great encouragement from the fact that our negotiations over the past six months have been characterised by flexibility, a willingness to find common ground and, most importantly perhaps, a strong commitment to deliver on the needs and demands of the citizens. the relentless focus on results, stone by stone, brick by brick, represents the spirit of our cooperation within the eu. at the end of the day, as we strive to put europe on a path for future growth and prosperity, we have to be guided by our vision for the society that we want to create. for me, this is what sets the union apart and what makes our social model so unique. that is what i believe in. that is what has made our economies so successful over the years and that is what we must fight to obtain and sustain and develop in the future. moving europe beyond this crisis is not about abandoning our social model. it is, in fact, the opposite. it is about bringing our countries through the crisis with our fundamental values intact – values such as solidarity, safety nets and equal opportunities for all. the difficult decisions we are taking today and tomorrow should not be a departure from solidarity. on the contrary, we are doing these things to protect our way of life, our european social model and our values, and we will continue to do so. the only way forward is through stronger cooperation among all of us. the answer to our current challenges facing the union is more europe, not less, and that has been the guiding principle for the danish presidency throughout. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank prime minister helle thorning-schmidt and her whole team, particularly europe minister wammen, for a very engaged and dynamic presidency. the presidency programme was called ‘europe at work’ and i think it is fair to say that you were a presidency at work. you made a real effort to contribute to ensuring stability for europe in these difficult times. i particularly congratulate you, prime minister, for your personal commitment to competitiveness and growth and to the green agenda, areas in which your country, denmark, is a great inspiration for many of us in europe, and indeed in the world. the results of this work are to a large extent reflected in the conclusions of the european council and cover the full range of the union’s activities. since we will be discussing the results of the european council and the euro area summit in the following debate, in this speech i will only highlight a number of specific issues. let me start with the economy. we have almost completed the second european semester. very serious and in-depth work has taken place on the commission’s proposals for country-specific recommendations and i am satisfied with the consensus that has emerged around them. this work cannot, of course, be separated from our agenda for economic growth. as the commission has made very clear, growth can be achieved only through the combination of structural reforms and targeted investment. the growth compact, which has now been approved, recognises this and, indeed, paves the way for determined pro-growth action. i therefore appreciate in particular the speedy and constructive manner in which the proposal on the pilot project bonds for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure has been handled. i am very happy that we have reached a final agreement on the commission proposal. the initiative will stimulate investment in infrastructure at european level. i also appreciate the efforts to reach an agreement on the so-called two-pack, which is a central element in the eu-level drive to strengthen economic and budgetary surveillance. this would also represent a first step towards implementing important elements of the fiscal treaty. thus i welcome the general approach in council and i strongly hope that parliament and the incoming cypriot presidency can come to a final agreement before the end of this year. equally important is our progress in the area of financial markets and financial services. agreement could be reached on our proposals on derivative markets and on the single european payment area. very importantly, we are making enormous progress on the bank capital requirements package, as well as on credit-rating agencies. while the commission proposal for a financial transaction tax has unfortunately not met with unanimous support from member states, i would like to welcome the decision to start negotiations, under enhanced cooperation, for all member states that wish to join the initiative. this is a very important development. after all, we have seen once again in recent months and weeks – both in the united states and in europe, including in some of the major banking institutions – that practices which fuelled the financial crisis have not yet been eradicated from the sector. once again we have been confronted with reckless trading and market manipulation. it is time for these practices to stop once and for all, and for a sector that owes so much to taxpayers’ support to agree to hand back a fair share to society. regarding the very difficult negotiations on the proposed directive on energy efficiency, the agreement found by the co-legislators at first reading will be a major step in delivering the objective of 20% primary energy savings in 2020. the commission estimates that the outcome reached would allow the delivery of approximately two thirds of the total energy savings in the commission’s original proposal. so, while we welcome what has been achieved, we must also say that further work on reaching our 2020 objectives will be needed. i was very pleased by the agreement reached on the roaming iii regulation. this is an example of legislation that truly benefits european citizens and consumers. the regulation entered into force on 1 july 2012. by putting a cap on data roaming, we are taking an important step towards protecting consumers against shock bills, and completing the digital single market. europe should be a global standard-setter. therefore i also welcome the agreement reached on reform of the standardisation system, which will enable more efficient standard-setting in europe. furthermore, the general approaches agreed in the council on the accounting directives, on venture capital funds and social entrepreneurship funds, and on alternative dispute resolution will hopefully prove to be a good basis for reaching agreement with parliament very soon. on the matter of professional qualifications, we could have wished for more progress, but work will continue. it is, of course, necessary to make special mention of the debate on the european patent, something which has been under discussion for decades. there was a compromise on this between the participating member states, but unfortunately it comes at the price of the deletion of important community elements of the original commission proposal. while recognising the great efforts made by the danish presidency on this difficult issue, and indeed thanking you sincerely for those efforts, prime minister, the commission has therefore reserved its position, and i made this very clear to the heads of state and government during the european council. the situation will now require an assessment by the three eu institutions. we are ready to work with you on this. a central theme of the past semester was the effort made in bringing forward the multiannual financial framework (mff). last week the european council considered that the negotiating box prepared by the danish presidency provided a basis and orientations for the final stage of negotiation during the cypriot presidency, with a view to reaching an agreement by the end of 2012. in this respect, let me reiterate that the commission is fully aware of and will call for full observance of the institutional prerogatives of all the eu institutions. it was the commission, by the way, which strongly insisted on this point during the preparation for this european council and, indeed, when its conclusions were adopted. the debate on the mff will now enter its decisive stage. the commission considers that the negotiating box is still missing some important elements or, in our view, is not the appropriate answer in some areas. while fully recognising the very serious work done so far, the commission will therefore continue to defend its proposals under the incoming presidency. i believe it is now clearer that the european union budget is an essential instrument for achieving sustainable growth and jobs through investment. i am particularly happy that we managed to agree on a new financial regulation. i want to extend my thanks to the relevant players in parliament and the council who have worked closely with the commission. i know we went through a process of long and difficult negotiations. the final adoption of the financial regulation before the end of the year will allow for proper implementation of all the sectoral programmes of the mff. thus i strongly hope that the council and parliament, with the support of the commission, will manage to reach agreement on the mff by the end of this year. the european union needs to send a signal that, until the end of this decade, it will have a strong budget for growth and cohesion. the european union needs to show that it is able to take difficult decisions in difficult times. in the area of justice and home affairs, there has been good progress on important issues. let me mention the asylum package, notably the dublin ii regulation and the reception conditions directive. negotiations have also advanced on the asylum procedures directive, and reform of the visa regulation is on track. however, the same cannot yet be said of another important issue, namely the legal basis and nature of the schengen evaluation mechanism. we are all aware of the sensitivity of this issue. as far as the commission is concerned, we want solutions that can work. that is why we believe, together with this parliament, that we need a schengen evaluation mechanism with a strong european dimension. we are convinced that an intergovernmental peer review model does not deliver on the mandate set by the european council of march 2011, and that it would have limited added value in practice. since the lisbon treaty in particular, free movement of people has been a genuine community concern. as i have said before, the commission cannot accept the current outcome as final, and it will continue to work for a better solution. let me end with a look at the external dimension. the focus on internal european issues has always had to be combined with a broader perspective on europe’s role in the world, and never more so than in relation to the preparations for, and decisions in, the rio+20 summit for sustainable development. although a number of our most ambitious objectives were not fully achieved, the european union remained committed and constructive throughout the negotiations, and our positions had a very important impact on the debate. i would like particularly to welcome the very good cooperation between the commission and the danish council presidency. in fact, both prime minister thorning-schmidt and i were present at this rio conference. and let me tell you that without european leadership in this conference we would not have achieved what appears to me to be a significant outcome. green growth is now explicitly and formally accepted by the international community as an indispensable part of our sustainable development agenda. important progress has been achieved during the past six months of the danish council presidency. i wish to reiterate my thanks for what has been very good cooperation. however, we are only too aware of how serious the situation is and how much we still need to accomplish in the time ahead. i therefore count on the ongoing commitment and ambition of all the eu institutions in meeting our common challenges.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, imagine that one day, after six months, a commission president says to us: 'you all know what we have done. we have done a lot, it is true, we have done it with energy, but now we will tell you what has blocked it". the problem we have here is that you had a plan, but we still don't understand why it didn't work out. you mentioned the energy efficiency directive. can you lie to yourself? two countries blocked it: germany and poland. we must therefore see how we can unblock europe, because by making a film of ourselves saying: 'you see, we did a good job, etc.' we know very well that the decisions we are taking are not up to the mark. the energy directive is good, but we all know that it is not enough. it is not your fault, it is the functioning of europe that is at stake. we talked about the patent. it is absurd, of course, but it is really necessary for the public to understand this. the problem is not just what we say to ourselves here, but also what public opinion can understand. when you have this contradiction with mr cameron, who is teaching everyone lessons, and who is actually preventing europe from developing, european public opinion, for example on patents, needs to understand what it is all about. we could give other examples, including the obvious schengen. if we re-establish the principle of open and closed frontiers, the community idea of europe will be destroyed. it's very simple, all the interior ministers are responsible. let's call a spade a spade, so that at least the public understands what this is all about. you are talking about the integration of serbia and montenegro. i know! but once again, we forget about sarajevo. we always forget about bosnia. today, the only country without a european perspective is the one that has been the victim of nationalism in the balkans, bosnia. it is not enough to give ourselves some well-deserved satisfaction about bosnia when we talk about serbia, because until we find a solution for bosnia, i will continue to have a bad conscience.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the 30th european council on the crisis. although the desired solution is closer than at previous meetings, the road map for european political integration is not yet in place. of course, substantial progress has been made this time. after the economic recommendations by country presented by the commission, the document presented by president van rompuy is going in the right direction, since it finally points to political europe as the ultimate goal. it refers to a period of preparation that spanned ten years. but everyone knows that europe will not survive until 2022 without budgetary, fiscal and social integration. i often wonder what political fact the twenty-seven will consider serious enough to consent to shared sovereignty. i wonder what more serious thing than unemployment, the difficulties facing our businesses and the prohibitive interest rates our countries have to pay is needed to make it clear that a single currency cannot do without a common economic policy. the epp group is, however, satisfied with the progress made in the growth and employment pact, even though it incorporates proposals made long ago by this parliament and the commission. and i would like to say to you, mr barroso, that we must continue, together with parliament, to put on the table what needs to be done, because the heads of state and government, when they are together, cannot find the solution. they each tried to survive in their own country. so we need parliament, with the commission and with mr van rompuy, to come up with concrete proposals and put them on the table so that when they are strangled by the markets and other things, governments can have a solution, as was the case with the six-pack and the two-pack. my group supports the banking supervision system, the european guarantee proposal and the proposed european banking union. our citizens must know that their savings are protected at all levels and that the instruments which are to guarantee them are working in the right direction. here too, we must increase protection. we need to guarantee the savings books of people who have worked their whole lives, and you know that currently, we have problems with that file. now we must put the instruments into action. i therefore call on the commission, the guardian of the treaties, to ensure that this is done. the epp group also supports the eib's capital increase of 10 billion. we must ensure that the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises can finance their projects, retain their employees, in the first instance, and, above all, be able to hire new ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single market is not a one-off event. i welcome this, since it is not about additional funds that we no longer have, but about better use of existing european funds. i would like to point out that just last month the latvian prime minister spoke to our group and told us that, faced with the imperative of budgetary cuts, he could only restart his economy with european funds. this is an example that needs to be repeated. the latvian prime minister did and told his fellow citizens. thanks to european solidarity, coupled with the courage of its leaders, this country has regained growth and employment. just because it's a small country doesn't mean we can't emulate it. we do not talk enough about these fantastic examples for europe. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we see that the solution to most of our problems lies in more europe. that is why my group attaches such importance to the next multiannual financial framework under discussion, a framework which will enable us to continue to finance our common policies. these funds are the foundation of european solidarity and a key instrument for growth and employment. in the 1950s, european integration was necessary to ensure peace and security on our continent. today, the same integration is essential to protect the european model of society that we have patiently built. it is indispensable to defend our interests in international trade. it is essential to promote our humanist values and ideals, human rights, human dignity, transparency and the rule of law. that is why i am returning to my call for a politically integrated europe, as opposed to an intergovernmental europe, such as the one advocated by the council in the schengen affair or, just last week, on the question of patents. as long as the community method is not our rule of governance, including in the council, europe will lose ground. i know that your job is difficult, dear president van rompuy, but do not be afraid! we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to make a decision on the basis of the commission's proposals. we need a much more integrated europe. we need to compare what works, the countries that are doing well -- because there are -- and apply their example to those that are not doing so well. that is what i hope we will put on the table, mr barroso, in the next two months. we will think about it during the holidays and we will make proposals in september, if the markets allow it.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr verhofstadt, allow me to ask a question, since i am also very concerned, as are all of you. if you look at the statistics, we will increasingly, from september, be faced with a situation where countries that made efforts a few years ago have stayed on the same line, and others have not followed through with those efforts. these countries will refuse to continue and will no longer be able to pay for solidarity because it is bad at home. we must therefore also, at the level of the democratic groups, start here in august to discuss the real proposals to be made. because you can't spend money you don't have!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision taken in brussels was a breath of fresh air, and although much remains to be done, the conclusions of this summit mark the end of an era and represent the first step in a renewal for our citizens, that of a europe which is giving itself the means to be more just and more united. the question of growth is no longer a taboo and the discussion of the broad economic guidelines is now open. the european union will not be able to emerge from the crisis without breaking the vicious circle of austerity, which would condemn the member states to an endless recession. i welcome the fact that this politically sound thought is finally reflected in the conclusions and i am glad that france and its president hollande have contributed to this political rebalancing and to embarking on the path of solidarity-based integration. but while hope is essential, it is practical action that will restore trust in the long term. with the €120 billion mobilised under the growth and jobs pact, the €10 billion recapitalisation of the european investment bank, which will allow the introduction of bonds to finance projects, the european parliament must be consulted on a coherent financial framework and on own resources. the mobilisation of the efsf and the launching of the european stability mechanism, which we would have liked to have had a banking licence, are the number one emergency for spain and italy, not to mention the greek citizens who have been hit hard by the crisis. the rapid establishment of the euro area banking supervisor is only the first step towards the banking union which parliament is calling for. we cannot be satisfied with a limited tax on financial transactions, even if its implementation in the context of enhanced cooperation may be a first step. so we expect a lot from the next european council, where the group of four - four presidents, of course - will have to propose an ambitious road map to move economic and monetary union forward and finally resolve the sovereign debt crisis and the instability of the euro zone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european council has for the first time tried - as you said, mr van rompuy - to have a vision that goes from the short to the long term. we have often asked for this here and we thank you for it. there are, at the same time, vital measures concerning banks and spreads and the vision you have carried. - i'll take the deed. but there are two tragic contradictions. the first point has just been raised, in particular by mr mauro: we must be serious about the markets. whatever you decide, agree beforehand on communication. i have a request to make of you, mr van rompuy, to silence them. shut them up! you speak for the european council. let's stop this indecent cacophony. what kind of company, what kind of group of people, what kind of family, would tolerate everyone going off after a meeting and talking nonsense like that? the fate of southern european countries is at stake. mr van rompuy, shut them up! secondly, as regards the democratic legitimacy, the last but very important point in your paper: i still see a huge gap between the goodwill shown on paper and what is actually happening. the only area where you have made progress in the banking union is supervision. this concerns an area in which this parliament fought with the european commission against the council which was dragging its feet, to have european supervision. it may be a good thing that the european central bank is dealing with this, i have nothing against it, but mr van rompuy, mr barroso, this must be discussed in a democratic forum. you cannot take away from parliament the powers that have been given to it and what we have worked on together.
mr president, this summit marks the first steps of europe towards a banking union and the possible recapitalisation of the banks in difficulty in troubled countries such as spain and italy certainly marks a step forward. direct aid from the european stability mechanism to banks can only be granted after the establishment of a european banking supervision. that's another step forward. but let us not be naive, mr van rompuy. there are still some crucial issues to be resolved. we will still need many european summits to try to provide the answers of economic and monetary integration of the euro area, simply political integration. because we cannot guarantee a growth model based on public spending without a clean-up and consolidation of public finances. because there can be no financial solidarity without budgetary, fiscal and social harmonization. because the premise is simple: you don't pay off a debt by creating another one. we know that by pooling the debts of countries which do not have the same economic and budgetary policies, we will put certain member states at risk by obliging them to guarantee debts they cannot control. i hope that france will ratify very quickly the treaty on stability, coordination and governance, which was signed last january and which, of course, could not be renegotiated. but mr. monti was a very good manoeuvre. however, the bonds of trust between the member states must be restored, because it is not desirable to see provocations between them and it is not desirable to oppose germany head-on. it's not worth it! the franco-german psychodrama is of no interest to anyone and that is not how the future of europe will be handled in these difficult times.
mr president, i understand your concern to act quickly, but please be aware that we are visible on the internet and think about the image we give of the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament welcomed the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european social label. this label will inform the consumer that the product or service he is purchasing is part of an investment to improve his social model. i supported this request, which was accepted by all my colleagues, and i welcome that.
in writing. as with banks, we regulate the world of insurance and reinsurance. the solvency ii directive, which is being considered by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, of which i am a member, aims to make the capital requirements for insurance and reinsurance companies more commensurate with the risks they face in their business. it is necessary to ensure that the company is well managed, that it is able to calculate and control its risks and to ensure that it is well capitalised. i have endorsed the postponement of this report until january 2014, which was proposed by my colleague, the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, sharon bowles, and which gives member states more time to transpose it into our national law.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii). the insurance sector is currently affected by legal uncertainty due to the discrepancy between the legal system of the european union (solvency ii) and that of the member states (solvency i). this report is part of a drive to regulate and supervise european insurance companies. the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority would thus help to strengthen the sector.
in writing. the european parliament and the council have already adopted directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii), which establishes a modern, risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of european insurance and reinsurance undertakings. the purpose of this report is to postpone the date of transposition and entry into force of the directive to 31 december 2012. this postponement is fully justified in view of the need to ensure the legal continuity of the provisions of the solvency i directive until the implementation of the entire solvency ii package. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. saint-barthélemy, a french island in the lesser antilles, was a dependency of the overseas department (dom) of guadeloupe until 1 january 2012, when the island officially became an overseas collectivity (com). the french republic had anticipated this change in status and asked the european council to adopt a decision on the island of saint-barthélemy, with a view to changing its status from that of an outermost region to that of a country and territory associated with the european union (oct). after the change of status at national level, it was consistent to revise the european status of this french oj. membership of the countries and territories associated with the european union now places the island in a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union, which takes account of its particularities, without, however, calling into question its membership of the european family. oct nationals are european citizens, but they are not part of the european union and are not subject to european law. the island retains the euro as its currency and its citizens will remain european citizens. its links with the european union will therefore remain intact.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr ponga on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european community. this report follows on from a letter from the french republic to the european council requesting that the island of saint-barthélemy be upgraded from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. this new association framework would enable saint barthélemy to enter into a more reciprocal and sustainable partnership which would take better account of its particularities.
in writing. i support the change of status of the island of saint barthélemy. by becoming an overseas country and territory (oct) associated with the european union, the island of saint barthélemy will have a framework more suited to its specificities. this new partnership with the european union allows for greater flexibility in the implementation of community standards. i am pleased with the adoption of this report, which confirms the decision taken by the council in october 2010.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which recognises the change in status of the french island of saint barthélemy, which became the 26th overseas country and territory of the european union in 2010. this new status will enable our overseas territory to renew its relations with the other territories of the union and to strengthen its relations with its immediate neighbours in the caribbean, while remaining committed to the euro and european values.
in writing. on tuesday 3 july, the european parliament recognised the change in status of saint barthélemy, making it the 26th overseas country and territory (oct). this is a decision which i welcome and which was set out in the conclusions of the european council of 27 october 2010. the new partnership will be based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the creation of a european union and a european union. this change in status will be more in line with the needs and specificities of the island. moreover, this change in the statute will not in any way alter two essential aspects of the island's proper functioning: saint barthélemy will retain the euro and its inhabitants will remain european citizens.
in writing. the french republic has asked the european council to adopt a decision on the island of saint-barthélemy, with a view to replacing its current status as an outermost region with the status of a country and territory associated with the european union. by adopting this status, the island would be part of a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union. this partnership would take account of its particularities, without, however, calling into question its membership of the european family. i supported the report by my colleague mr maurice ponga, which was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the change of status of the territory of the french collectivity of saint-barthélemy. the commission's proposal to make effective the change from the status of outermost region to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union as from 1 january 2012 is to be approved. the eu's influence in the region will thus be strengthened.
in writing. some regions are countries that share the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality. europe has therefore developed macro-regional strategies which open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects. these strategies are supported by cohesion policy, one of the european union's most valuable tools! i have therefore endorsed the strategies in this report which can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the european union and ensure better coordination between regional programmes and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the examples of the baltic sea and the danube clearly show that macro-regional strategies, new forms of territorial cooperation, have helped to improve the effectiveness of the union's regional development policies and to strengthen synergies between regions and states. the eu must urgently open up such prospects for the mediterranean, a vital area for the future of europe. the implementation of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin would provide a common perspective to address the challenges facing the mediterranean countries and to structure this area, which is essential for the development and integration of europe. after the failure of the union for the mediterranean, it is time to send a message of hope to the mediterranean region as a whole, which is currently in crisis but also shaken by the successive revolutions on the southern side of the mediterranean. the european parliament has overwhelmingly expressed its support for this initiative in the mediterranean and intends to make it a political priority. it is now up to the commission to give its support and cyprus to use its presidency to move forward and lay the foundations for this strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'the evolution of eu macro-regional strategies: current practices and future prospects, particularly in the mediterranean'. i believe that the european macro-regional strategies offer good prospects for cooperation projects with the territories surrounding the baltic sea. the report underlines the union's interest in pursuing the strategy of cohesion policy, particularly in the field of inter-sectoral cooperation. i also think it is important to define more precisely projects which meet the local needs of the baltic peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to develop macro-regional strategies at eu level. as rapporteur on the atlantic strategy for the european parliament, i share the rapporteur's view of the need for a multi-sectoral approach. i think it is important to support and develop territorial cooperation projects. the latter are relevant because they allow more effective responses to local problems. i also support the initiative to develop a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean. this is welcome after the "arab spring" and the democratic transition of some countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean.
in writing. i supported this text which encourages the development of so-called 'macroregional' strategies to coordinate the efforts of several territories to solve common challenges. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we hope that the principle of accountability, which is expressed here in terms of the three 'no's' (no to new expenditure, a new 'institutional machinery' and new regulations) and the three 'yeses' (yes to the complementarity of funding, the coordination of institutional systems and the opening up of new projects), will henceforth apply to all the policies of the european union.
the new european whim from brussels: the european macro-region. finally, it is certainly macro, but it is 'european'. the macro-region is intended to bring together regions (not states) around a common project (a sea, a river, etc.), even if these regions are not part of a member state of the union. the aim is, of course, to encourage the short-circuiting of nation states and to promote the blurring of external borders. the creation of such entities cannot be left to spontaneous initiatives, so the commission is asked to identify all possible macro-regions. and of course, encourage their creation. the alfonsi report therefore proposes two macro-regions in the mediterranean, thus grouping together areas north and south of the sea. it is a prelude to the inclusion of these countries, most of which are now threatened by muslim fundamentalism, in the european single market and the free movement of people between the two shores. and then what? a 'macro-region' of the atlantic to promote the implementation of the large transatlantic market? we have to stop this drift !
in writing. on tuesday 3 july, parliament approved by a large majority the report on the european union's macro-regional strategies. this unique form of cooperation has already proved its worth in the baltic sea, which is now the reference framework for other initiatives such as the danube strategy launched a year ago or the draft mediterranean strategy. this strategy moves beyond traditional cooperation at national or regional level by bringing together all institutional actors and partners such as universities, research centres and regional organisations from a wider area facing common territorial challenges in environmental, economic, migration and cultural matters. the development of a strategy in the mediterranean is fully justified by the existence of common characteristics and problems and european policies could be implemented more effectively at this scale. the report makes useful recommendations for future strategies, drawing on the lessons of the baltic sea experience. we have an interesting mechanism to exploit here and that is why i have decided to support this report.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted the report by my colleague françois alfonsi by a large majority, and i welcome this. the report aims to take stock of current practices in the framework of the european union's macro-regional strategies in order to define their prospects. in this context, it is necessary to provide a relevant reference framework for cohesion policy and to encourage cross-sectoral cooperation. the macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean has great potential, not only through the common natural environment, but also through a shared history and culture. for this reason, a priority must be given to strengthening the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, ensuring better management of migration flows.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'the evolution of eu macro-regional strategies: current practices and future prospects, notably in the mediterranean', which recognises the added value of the baltic sea macro-regional strategy and of these strategies in general. macro-regional strategies make it possible to link the competent authorities of several member states in order to define similar frameworks for the same mountain, maritime, etc. area. these strategies allow investment to be shared by the different actors, priorities to be coordinated and regional financing to be developed in an integrated approach.
in writing. the innovation offered by the macro-regional strategies is interesting and the first results in the baltic and danube regions are encouraging. i am in favour of this text because it shows europe's interest in looking to the south, the region from which i myself was elected. but i would like to remind you that it will be much more difficult to devise a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean than for the rest of europe, because the mediterranean periphery is a very special area. it's a meeting place, but it's also a border. the border between peoples who share a common history, cultures, sometimes even origins, but whose average per capita income is five times higher in the north than in the south. it's the most important border differential in the world. a border for countries that do not share the same characteristics. some in the south are experiencing a return to democracy with the arab spring, others are locked into autocratic logics. so yes, we need to develop a macro-regional strategy. but in stages: first with our closest partners, through culture, tourism, biodiversity, entrepreneurship. by combining different existing instruments, including the union for the mediterranean and the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. launched in 2009, the baltic sea macro-region is a coherent set of territories that are designed to cooperate to better address economic and environmental challenges. this cooperation took the form of a 'macroregional strategy', designed to coordinate the strong sectoral cooperation already in place, and structured around four pillars environment, prosperity, accessibility and security and around an action plan with 15 priority areas and 80 flagship projects. the mediterranean basin shares the same natural environment and a common historical and cultural reality links all its shores. in the south of europe there is a great potential which cannot be exploited without the coordination and overall vision required by the definition of a macro-regional strategy. potential is the need to put maritime traffic at the heart of a transport strategy throughout the area, particularly for goods. the report also highlights the possibility of strengthening the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, with a concrete territorial dimension that ensures better management of migration flows and has a positive impact on the performance of their own economies.
in writing. the macro-regional strategies of the baltic and danube regions have demonstrated the usefulness of policy coordination at the level of functional territories. in the wake of the arab spring, it is a historic necessity to re-establish our relations with the mediterranean countries. experience has shown that multilateral relations at local and regional level have as much impact as large bilateral agreements. let us use the european experience to help these regions in their democratic transition. a macro-regional approach has many advantages: it can address common challenges, coordinate neighbourhood policy and regional development policy, and rethink multi-level governance and subsidiarity in the mediterranean area. consolidating an area of peace, democracy and prosperity around the mediterranean is the european union's next challenge. we must live up to the hopes raised by the arab spring in order to revive a euro-mediterranean partnership of proximity and projects.
in writing. the committee on culture and education had sent the committee on regional development its opinion on the macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean. i particularly welcome the adoption of my amendment, which is part of the text adopted in plenary, on the need to facilitate the mobility of artistic works and artists in the mediterranean by simplifying visa procedures and by optimising free movement programmes and support for cultural operators, but also on the importance of establishing and mutually recognising a status for artists in europe and the countries of the south.
in writing. the first railway package, adopted in 2001, was already aimed at improving the attractiveness of rail transport. this reform was not successful: ten years later, rail transport has still not managed to catch up with other modes of transport. this failure is mainly due to divergences between national regulations and the failure of member states to implement the first railway package. i therefore voted in favour of the revision of the european railway package, which aims to create a single railway area. as a result of two years of tough negotiations, i have supported, in particular, non-discriminatory access to the railway network, fair competition between railway companies, the approximation of technical standards and further harmonisation in the framework of national and cross-border rail transport.
in writing. last november, in the first reading vote, i voted against this revision of the railway package. i still believe that if progress has been made, whether in terms of transparency, enhanced cooperation between national authorities or multiannual programming of infrastructure projects, it is not enough to support this second reading. the main reason why i do not support this package is the commitment to continue on the path of liberalisation, and in particular the repeated and sustained commitment to open up passenger transport to competition. in this package, the commission and parliament also commit themselves to continue along the path of separation between infrastructure managers and transport operators, whereas we see clearly in our respective countries, and in particular in france, that this separation poses many difficulties and that it would be good to re-examine everything in order, perhaps, to consider something other than ever more liberalization.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs debora serracchiani on a single european railway area. in the context of the fragmentation of the railway area in the union, there is an urgent need to legislate for greater convergence of national regulations. the first railway package, adopted in 2001, was already intended to improve the attractiveness of rail transport, but ten years later, there is no evidence of its implementation. to make up for the lack of development and maintenance of infrastructure, the report proposes that rail, the main mode of transport, should be made an economic vehicle for european spatial planning. these structural reforms are aimed at stimulating private and public investment so that new operators can enter a more 'open' railway market. in addition, it is necessary to guarantee the rules of a fair and non-discriminatory railway market. fair competition between railway companies and access to reliable, safe and efficient services must also be ensured. the railway can, in my view, be a good showcase of european technology to the world.
in writing. in the era of free movement of goods, capital and people within the european union, it is appropriate that harmonised rules for the operation of rail networks are put in place at european level. this will improve transparency in slot allocation and management and promote transnational coordination at all levels: available capacity, investment, infrastructure works, operational management, etc. the creation of a single point of contact should also enable companies to have a single point of contact, a symbol of railway corridor management with a european perspective. this regulation thus sends a strong signal in favour of a genuine european transport and infrastructure policy. it is a key step towards making rail freight faster and more reliable, and thus a credible and environmentally friendly alternative to long-distance road transport. a truly european approach was all the more necessary since the rail freight market is relevant at this scale.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to improve the mobility of our citizens by ensuring the creation of a more efficient, competitive and safe rail network throughout the european union. the european parliament is thus committed to encouraging the development of modern infrastructure and safer and less noisy trains that will take travellers across the union at competitive prices!
in writing. after months of negotiations, we have finally adopted the reform of european rail legislation. while it does not cover everything, it does help to strengthen rail transport in the european union, in particular by clarifying the role of the various rail transport operators. key measures include strengthening the independence of the national regulator and establishing a european network of regulators to achieve uniform interpretation and application of legislation. another key aspect of this overhaul is the clarification of financial flows between the infrastructure manager and the railway operator. the vote does not mark the end of the reform of the european railway market. the european commission is expected to present new legislative proposals as early as next year, notably on the thorny issue of liberalising national passenger transport and on the separation of infrastructure management from railway operators.
in writing. the creation of a single european railway area aims to improve rail services by increasing competition, strengthening the competences of national regulators and improving the framework for investment in the rail sector. in this context, it is essential to ensure non-discriminatory access to railway lines and service facilities and to ensure transparency in the prices set by the independent national railway regulators. it also involves separating and controlling the accounts to ensure that railway undertakings, which are structurally linked to the infrastructure manager, are not favoured over their competitors. i supported this report at the second reading stage of the legislative procedure.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague debora serracchiani on the establishment of a single european railway area. the agreement, designed to optimise the supply and quality of transport service for international freight and passengers, is a further step towards railway integration. we have reached an agreement which ensures better use of public funds by monitoring financial flows. the directive also provides for the establishment of independent national regulators to ensure the application of the rules in the member states. it is therefore a further step towards the creation of a single european railway area.
in writing. i voted in favour of new rules to increase transparency in rail infrastructure funding. the aim is to open up the railway sector to competition and thus to offer better services to passengers and freight users. it is necessary to specify the arrangements for financing infrastructure, the conditions of competition and the rules for market surveillance. national and independent control bodies with broad powers should therefore exchange information within a european network of control bodies. similarly, the prohibition on transferring public funds from one field of activity to another should ensure more healthy competition.
in writing. i welcome the adoption today of our second reading position on the single european railway area. i am convinced that european integration requires the development of efficient and high-quality crossborder rail links. our action today is helping to ensure fairer competition by ensuring the transparency of financial flows between railway operators and network managers. the directive will also have the effect of strengthening the competitiveness of the european railway sector. incentives linked to the allocation price of railway sections, taking into account train safety and noise pollution, will be introduced to this end, thus encouraging the sector to modernise its railway fleet and infrastructure. finally, i approve the establishment of control bodies with enhanced powers, also known as national railway regulators, which will ensure effective compliance with the rules contained in this legislative provision.
in writing. the european union has developed a common currency, a common area of free movement, a common market. the four freedoms of movement - goods, people, capital and services - are only theoretical if we do not have the infrastructure to guarantee these freedoms. europe has therefore committed itself to implementing an integrated european transport network and a single railway area. we currently have more than 20 national signalling and speed control systems which are still not compatible. in addition, the absence of effective competition, insufficient regulatory oversight, weak public and private investment, missing links in border areas and bottlenecks are hampering the growth of the freight and passenger transport market. this report will guarantee the independence of the monitoring bodies and will be the first step in the liberalisation of rail transport, with a view to creating a common area of fast, safe, economical and sustainable transport in the eu.
in writing. the profession of professional driver is already highly regulated. however, driving and rest times are not always respected and increase the risk of accidents. i therefore voted in favour of the installation of tachographs on all lorries over 2.8 tonnes by 2020. the tachograph is the device that records the driving and rest times of professional drivers and the new generation of this instrument will incorporate satellite technologies. this means that the trucks already in service will have to be retrofitted. despite the strong objections of the international road transport union (iru), the arguments for safety and prevention have prevailed, and i am glad of that!
in writing. the current social regulations in the field of road transport are still too often violated and the tachograph control system, a box recording the driving and resting time of road drivers, is inefficient. failure to comply with the maximum driving times and minimum rest periods leads to greater fatigue for drivers and therefore constitutes an increased risk to road safety. the existing legislation must therefore be revised. the new regulation aims to better enforce social legislation and make fraud more difficult, mainly through 'smart tachographs' making full use of new technologies. these innovative, more efficient recording tools will enable the control authorities to directly target fraudulent trucks and better control the driving and rest times of road drivers. i therefore supported this text, which is aimed at improving the working conditions of drivers and making the road safer for everyone.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by silvia-adriana ţicău on the control system in the field of road transport. i am in favour of the introduction of an effective tool to combat road safety: the tachograph. this system is designed to combat non-compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods for road drivers. in addition, this tool promotes better control productivity and improved working conditions for road drivers.
in writing. i voted for the ţicău report on the improvement of the tachograph system in the field of road transport. i believe that the respect of driving and rest times by road drivers is a prerequisite for improving road safety in europe. i also support the use of satellite geolocation to reduce fraud. this report proposes some sensible measures and i welcome its adoption.
in writing. ensuring that lorry drivers respect their driving and rest times is a health and safety necessity, not only for them but also for all road users. i have supported this report because the tools it introduces will make it easier to monitor compliance with the legislation in this area. the tachograph will make it easier to check that drivers and transport companies are obeying the law. but above all, parliament has offered a derogation to small businesses whose conduct is not their main activity: protecting small entrepreneurs from such additional costs was essential.
in writing. even as millions of europeans are preparing to hit the road for their holidays, we need to provide concrete answers to the question of road safety. the commission has also proposed a comprehensive revision of the legislation on the tachograph, a compulsory monitoring device installed in lorries. the failure of lorry drivers to comply with labour legislation, often under pressure from employers, is unfortunately all too common in europe: the stress and fatigue of lorry drivers is the cause of about 20% of road accidents. this new version of the tachograph will be used for heavy goods vehicles of more than 2.8 tonnes (and no longer more than 3.5 tonnes) and for vehicles carrying more than 9 persons. we have also paved the way for the electronic use of the device to replace manual use, heralding the advent of the so-called 'smart' tachograph by 2020, which is expected to save road transport companies the equivalent of 515 million in administrative costs per year and also prevent fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of this reform which improves the respect for the social rights of road drivers by deepening the rules on the instruments in vehicles used to measure their driving and rest times. it is essential to monitor compliance with our social legislation in road transport, not only to ensure fair competition in this sector, but also to protect workers in the sector and to improve road safety more generally by fighting against fatigue at the wheel!
in writing. better working conditions and greater respect for legislation on rest and driving time for lorry drivers in europe, that is why i voted in favour of this text. it is also a matter of bringing more transparency to an area which is still very opaque. the current tachographs are too easy to use and do not provide the guarantees needed to ensure effective control of driving and rest times for road users in europe. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new system of checks on the use of vehicles with a maximum speed of 50 km/h.
in writing. road safety and social protection are not incompatible. this is what the european parliament meant when it adopted the report on the improvement of tachograph systems, the first of which were introduced in 1985. parliament called for the introduction of 'smart tachographs' by 2020, which take account of technological innovations to improve the monitoring of goods and passenger transport vehicles and to limit abuses. driving time is not strictly enforced in europe. manipulation of tachographs has been found to extend the driving time of drivers. these irresponsible behaviours, which represent a real danger to the safety of our roads, call for proportionate sanctions. i am well aware of the competition that our road transport companies are facing because of the increase in fraud. i therefore felt that any initiative which would limit the fraud itself, fuelled by profound differences in social legislation, i am thinking in particular of rest time requirements, deserves support.
in writing. tachographs are boxes that record the driving and resting time of truck drivers. they play a vital role in transport safety in the european union and are a guarantee of respect for the social rights of drivers. in view of the latest technological innovations, it is essential to adapt the previous regulation. the report by my colleague, mrs ticau, advocates digital tachographs, so-called 'smart tachographs'. they will enable the control authorities to directly target fraudulent vehicles and improve controls. the report also calls for the training of police forces to be harmonised. i supported this report, which was adopted by the european parliament in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft report on the control system in road transport. the use of the most advanced technologies is necessary to improve road safety by regulating the supervision of road users. the tachograph will now be more efficient and reliable and will incorporate the latest technological innovations. it will make it possible to check more strictly that drivers' driving and rest times are respected. the text will not only improve road safety but also combat unfair competition in road transport.
in writing. in order to ensure optimum road safety for all road users and suitable working conditions for road drivers, strict standards for working and resting time have been established and digital tachographs (instruments for recording data on drivers' driving behaviour) have been made mandatory for new vehicles over 2.8 tonnes. in order to ensure that the current rules are better observed and to avoid the multiplication of unnecessary checks, new technical standards for tachographs had to be established (in particular for remote control). that is the spirit of the commission's proposal, which i support in general. nevertheless, in order to ensure maximum safety, it seems to me crucial that, in parallel with the driver's working and resting time, the speed of the vehicle and its weight - often factors in accidents - are recorded. in addition, in order not to impose unnecessary administrative burdens on the craftsmen, i am in favour of an exemption for lorries used within a 100 km radius by drivers whose main occupation is not this. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments which go in this direction.
in writing. with a view to reducing fraud and improving the application of social legislation for road hauliers, this amendment to the council regulation is useful, since at its core is the mandatory installation of a new generation of tachographs on all new road transport vehicles. the systematic and compulsory use of this new technology should make speed checks and especially driving times easier. it is therefore important in terms of road safety, but also for the working conditions of truck drivers. however, the use of these new tachographs entails data protection risks, previously raised by the european data protection supervisor, which are not addressed by this proposal, in particular in terms of data storage and access. in addition, some restrictions, such as the registration of the starting and the ending points, do not go far enough. i therefore abstained in this vote because i recognize the usefulness of this new regulation but i have reservations about it, particularly with regard to the protection of the fundamental rights of european citizens.
in writing. the european union legislates in many areas. our role as parliamentarians is also to ensure that the legislative provisions are in line with the changes in our society. for example, the 2003 legislation on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights is now obsolete due to the rapid growth of online commerce. one of the key provisions of this regulation is to introduce a simplified procedure for small consignments. online sales have led to a dramatic increase of 200% in postal sales. in response, the commission provides that 'small consignments of goods' suspected of being counterfeit may be destroyed without the intervention of the right holder, reducing administrative burdens and costs for customs officers. for greater legal certainty and to avoid confusion, we tabled an amendment to extend these provisions to patents. the text was therefore adopted despite the flexibility of the socialists, who were influenced by lobbies at the last minute.
in writing. in the eu, counterfeit products cost european businesses €250 billion. the report thus extends the scope of customs action to a wider range of intellectual property rights. as regards the control of medicines in transit by customs, this will only be carried out if there is sufficient evidence of their counterfeiting in the union. the report does not therefore prejudice their marketing but calls for vigilance against counterfeiting.
in writing. the counterfeit and pirated goods that still too often cross our external borders are a threat to european businesses and growth. customs officials should be given the means to combat such fraud effectively. with this text, which i voted for, it is done. i am particularly pleased that this enhanced protection for european companies is not at the expense of the health of citizens of third countries: parliament has ensured that generic medicines crossing our territory to third countries will not be subject to unnecessary delays. i support these measures because they are both necessary and just.
in writing. i supported this text, which strengthens the fight against counterfeiting by improving and strengthening customs controls in this area. we cannot tolerate any longer that piracy and counterfeiting cause european companies to lose 250 billion euros a year and endanger the safety (for example, counterfeit toys) and health (for example, fake medicines) of our citizens!
in writing. it is clear that piracy, counterfeiting and parallel imports are a scourge for our economies and often a danger to citizens, and that these unfair practices must be firmly combated. but this report merely notes the dismantling of services and the lack of resources in the customs field, which no one else is proposing to strengthen. whose fault is that ? where is the promise of increased external border controls in return for the dismantling of internal european border controls? the explosion in imports of counterfeit goods is a direct consequence of your ultra-barter policies and in particular your acceptance of china, the world's largest counterfeiter, into the wto. the first thing to do is to re-establish real customs frontiers, real trade protection at european and national level. otherwise, what you're offering sounds more like palliative care than actual therapy. in addition, the report's treatment of ordinary citizens seems to me both unclear and excessive. that is why, although i tried to do so, i could not approve the creutzmann report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a european regulation. the new legislation will strengthen the procedures enabling customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. in the absence of resources, controls at the union's external borders are often inadequate. when external border controls fail, the damage is already done. internal control procedures thus appear to be very difficult and costly once goods are distributed in the different member states. counterfeiting is a real scourge, costing european companies 250 billion euros a year. much of the economic growth and employment in the union depends on the respect of intellectual property rights. some counterfeit products can pose a real threat to the health and safety of consumers. i was also rapporteur for a directive on the prevention of falsified medicines in the union in 2010. i have particularly investigated these criminal acts, which are deliberate poisonings, real attempts at premeditated murder.
in writing. economic growth and employment in the european union depend in part on the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition to economic impact, counterfeit products can pose a threat to the health and safety of european consumers. to combat this, customs authorities are best placed to enforce intellectual property rights at external borders, before goods enter the internal market. that is why i supported mr creutzmann's report. it provides for procedures enabling customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods where they suspect that they infringe intellectual property rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by jürgen creutzmann on the control by customs authorities of the respect of intellectual property rights in order to combat counterfeit products in europe. in concrete terms, this means giving customs officers at the external borders of the european union increased means to detect infringements of intellectual property rights, such as counterfeiting or trade in pirated works. i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour of this regulation, which i believe is a necessary step towards protecting our know-how and competitiveness. it is essential that the union has strong instruments to combat counterfeiting and to defend our economy and our businesses.
in writing. the proposal aims to strengthen the european customs system in the face of the current increase in counterfeiting flows in europe. under the guise of respect for intellectual property and the promotion of creativity, this proposal only makes sense in the european union's frantic pursuit of competitiveness at any cost. the union is once again seeking to strengthen the repressive apparatus, while at the same time restricting the freedoms of its citizens. in some respects, this text is similar to the battle against acta. the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl were rejected in the main. the distinction between 'evidence' and 'sufficient evidence on the basis of the applicable legal procedures' would have been essential to the acceptability of this proposal, but it did not pass the vote. the only point of satisfaction here is the mention of counterfeit medicines, which are a major health issue for all. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. as you know, i took the european parliament's message to the world water forum in marseille last march and i saw how much the world was waiting for the european union to act on these issues. with the text on the challenges facing the european union in the field of water, we are advocating an ambitious and comprehensive policy, aimed at reducing water waste, a real priority; 2/ encouraging investment in infrastructure to deal with leakage from the network; 3/ the transparency of the charging systems based on the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles. in november, the european commission will present proposals to improve water management in europe. for me, these issues of access to water are very important. so i decided to get involved at all levels: 1) at the local level as a municipal elected official; 2/ at national level as president of the french water circle; 3/ european parliament, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the parliament; 4/ and finally at the global level since my election last week in doha as governor of the world water council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of eu water legislation. i believe that access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. clearer water pricing systems and better waste water management are therefore needed. today, up to 70% of the water supply to european cities can be lost in leaks from the network. by november, the european commission will have published its plan for safeguarding european waters. we must therefore act quickly to stop the waste of our most precious commodity.
in writing. water scarcity has become a major problem in europe. i am glad that this report has been adopted, and i support it. i note that the water framework directive has had problems with implementation and that we must continue our efforts to improve the existing arrangements. i believe that we must now ensure that existing legislation is implemented and prepare future arrangements to optimise our use of water.
in writing. water is a public good that is essential for citizens and businesses alike. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water' in the context of the directive. i particularly welcome the inclusion in this text of a knowledge and innovation component. in particular, it stresses the need to improve the collection of water data, stressing that the gmes tool could play a key role in this respect.
in writing. it is a recurring theme: water is a scarce resource that must be conserved, but it must also be made available to all. access to water must therefore be recognised as a fundamental and universal right. water pricing must also be as transparent as possible so that no unfair profit is made on this common good of humanity. the adoption of a lifestyle that uses less water must become a priority for european citizens in order to preserve this drying commodity. but it is also necessary to renovate and control the water supply networks of europe's large cities so that the loss of water before consumption, which now amounts to 20% of total volumes, is reduced as much as possible. finally, the fight against pollution of the natural environment and the treatment of waste water is necessary at a time when drinking water is far from being a reality in all parts of the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because water is the most vital and most important of all our public goods. sustainable management is essential if all ecosystems are to receive sufficient and good quality water to run our societies and economies. the european strategy in this area has made enormous progress, but there is still room for improvement. thus, data collection must continue to be encouraged and improved if we are to better understand the circulation of water in our ecosystem. on the other hand, the water issue must be integrated into all areas of action of the european union. finally, it is essential that we include water-related issues (rainwater recovery, water pollution, cost-saving technologies, monitoring, etc.) in the areas where research and innovation are strongly encouraged.
in writing. the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, on the sustainability of water resources, has unfortunately been applied slowly and unevenly. the implementation report by my colleague richard seeber is helping to set up a plan to safeguard european waters. the main objective is to take stock of the implementation of existing eu legislation in order to identify the challenges. water, a precious element essential to human life, must be used efficiently and its consumption reduced. the report also calls on the member states to apply the rules in force adequately. i supported this report in plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european union water legislation with a view to improving european water legislation. water is a common good of mankind, and taking into account that access to water should be a fundamental and universal right, we must take responsibility for the good management of our water resources at european level. this is why the sectors that consume the most water, such as energy and agriculture, need to be particularly careful and adopt a rational use approach.
in writing. in this resolution, which i fully support, we propose a number of measures to safeguard the quality of water in europe and to ensure its rational use. the recurring problem of green algae proliferation, which we have in brittany for example, shows that we must act in this direction. the resolution focuses in particular on the use of incentive mechanisms such as the application of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles or the establishment of transparent and efficient pricing systems that would internalise both the costs of remediation and the environmental costs. however, it should not be forgotten that this should not lead to an unreasonable increase in the price of water. the text also contains proposals for the prospecting and exploitation of shale gas, a problem which is of particular concern to france, which has a large amount of shale gas on its soil. we therefore ask the commission to undertake research to assess the negative impact of the exploitation of these gases on the quality of groundwater.
in writing. road safety regulations can and must always be improved. i therefore ask that the ecall emergency system be made compulsory in cars. all new cars should be equipped with these ecalls free of charge by 2015 to automatically alert emergency services to road accidents via the 112 emergency call. the technology is ready and yet our states have taken no steps to impose it on the car manufacturers. in addition to the seat belt and airbag, ecall will reduce the consequences of accidents by automatically alerting emergency services in the event of a collision. this allows the accident site to be reported immediately and the rescue services to respond more quickly. of course, the location of vehicles can only be determined in the event of an accident and not on other occasions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the ecall system: a new '112' service for citizens. this system is a real technological breakthrough: it allows a car, whether it has been in an accident or not, to automatically trigger an emergency call while sending essential information about the accident such as the time, the precise position of the vehicle, its direction, its description, whether its occupants are conscious or not. this system, which can also be activated manually, is based on the single european emergency number 112 associated with the geolocation of the vehicle. it is estimated that the introduction of such a system in cars could save 2500 european lives a year and reduce the severity of injuries by 10% to 15% through improved emergency response. the ecall system is a sleeping system until an emergency call is triggered. it therefore fully respects data protection and privacy, which is a prerequisite for its adoption. in addition, ecall ensures technological neutrality so that car manufacturers can be free to choose the system they equip their vehicles with.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the koch-sehnalová report. this new ecall device available to european citizens could save up to 2,500 lives every year. the new 112 service will make it possible, in particular, to ensure more effective care for road accidents by means of a faster intervention by the emergency services. in addition, the compulsory nature of this measure seems to me to be a good thing, since there have been few voluntary initiatives so far. it would be wise to extend this system to all new vehicles in the eu.
in writing. we have just voted today for the general introduction of ecall, an emergency call system on board every vehicle. this public and open system can make a significant contribution to reducing the number of road deaths. that is why we have been defending it since 2003. unfortunately, in the name of market logic, manufacturers' lobbies want to impose optional private systems, with the complicity of the former french government, which did not want to invest, and some french meps from the epp. the price of saving a life is certainly a financial one, but it is our duty as european legislators to show that europe, through an effective security system, knows, can and must protect its citizens. we now expect the commission to propose legislation quickly so that the system can be operational throughout the union by 2015.
in writing. i have given my full support to this text which proposes to integrate an automatic emergency call mechanism in all european vehicles. i voted in favour of it not only because it could save lives, but also because it makes this tool a springboard for technological innovation in europe. it recalls the need to link it with existing radio navigation tools (egnos, galileo, etc.) and encourages the future integration of innovative on-board services.
in writing. although automatic emergency calls in vehicles are a good initiative to intervene more quickly in road accidents, i preferred to abstain on this text, which aims to set up a european system, called 'ecall', which is mandatory for all vehicles. it seems to me that road safety is the responsibility of the member states. while our states have committed themselves to a rigorous and sound management of public finances, the financing of this european system cannot be assumed by them!
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution which calls for ecall to be installed in all new cars by 2015. this is an important step forward for road safety because if this technology were to be implemented, it could save many lives on european roads. it is now up to the european commission to come back with a legislative proposal. we have been very clear in the european parliament.
in writing. i hope this technology will be applied as soon as possible to save lives. the result of research funded by the european union, the 'ecall' is a small device based on sensors embedded in the car. in the event of a serious accident, this device automatically dials 112, the european emergency number. the location of the car, its direction and the time of the accident are directly communicated. the possibility should then be left to member states to choose the organisation of call routing, for example through sorting platforms that distinguish between calls for emergency and public service calls and those for assistance and private service provision. a european ecall would save time: 40% in urban areas and 50% in rural areas, according to the european commission. while 30 900 people died on eu roads in 2010 and more than 1.5 million were injured in 2009, ecall would reduce the number of fatalities by at least 4% and the number of serious injuries by at least 6%.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the introduction of the ecall in-vehicle emergency call system in the member states. this public system automatically contacts emergency services in the event of a serious accident, reducing fatalities, the severity of injuries and secondary accidents. we have been advocating this idea since 2003, but it was held back by the lobbies of manufacturers, who wanted to develop an optional private offer. this is a genuine european public offer and a significant step forward in road safety, which is awaiting the commission's legislative proposal.
in writing. the european parliament voted overwhelmingly on tuesday 3 july to approve the development of ecall technology, which will be integrated into all new vehicles by 2015. the ecall system uses sensors to automatically trigger the nearest emergency service in the event of a serious accident via the 112 call platform. ecall will provide essential information to speed up the response of emergency services on the spot, such as the time, exact location of the accident and vehicle information. ecall can also be activated manually in the event of, for example, a heart attack. this free system will not be active permanently. so there will be no risk of personal data breaches and travel surveillance. this new device will save more than 2,500 lives a year and will speed up the response time of emergency services. although it will take a few years before this system is fully operational, i believe that this is a concrete initiative that directly addresses the concerns of citizens.
in writing. the ecall system, the result of a european initiative, would provide rapid assistance to citizens who are victims of road accidents in the european union. the aim of this project is to install in all vehicles a system which will automatically call 112 in the event of a serious road accident or the activation of the airbag. this new device would save 2,500 lives every year and significantly reduce the number of injuries. at a time when new technologies are a considerable asset for improving road safety, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleagues olga sehnalová and dieter-lebrecht koch on the launch of the ecall system: a new service 112 for citizens, which has been in development for almost ten years. to better protect european citizens, ecall is a new vehicle-based alert system that automatically alerts emergency services in the event of a serious accident, communicating the gps position of the accident site, all over europe. in total, 2,500 lives could be saved every year in europe. i welcome the european parliament's vote in favour of this system, which strengthens the union's role in protecting its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution that all vehicles offered for sale in the european union should be equipped with ecall technology from 2015. the transeuropean system could save 2 500 lives a year and reduce the number of serious injuries caused by road accidents.
in writing. the purpose of the ecall in-vehicle system is to automatically alert emergency services in the event of a major accident, allowing rescue services to arrive at the scene more quickly, and thus reducing the number of road deaths and the severity of injuries. in europe, more than 40 000 people die in road accidents every year and 150 000 people are left disabled for life. the installation of ecall in all vehicles in the eu would save the lives of 2,500 people every year and reduce the severity of injuries by 10-15%. this system must therefore be installed in european vehicles as soon as possible! in this resolution, parliament calls for all new cars to be equipped with this device by 2015 and insists that this emergency call service should be free and accessible to all. the resolution also provides safeguards on the use of data, stressing that the ecall service cannot be used to monitor a person's movements or locate him/her unless he/she is involved in an accident. i support it.
in writing. road accidents remain among the leading causes of death and injury not only in the european union but also worldwide, at a time when technological developments are able to guarantee high-quality and high-speed road safety and emergency services. this is the case of the ecall system, an emergency call system to reception centre operators which provides rapid assistance in the event of an accident and is closely linked to the european emergency number 112. i welcome the attention given in the text to the free and universal accessibility of ecall as a public service, taking into account the different categories of vehicles and the needs of drivers, including disabled drivers, and the importance of data protection and respect for the privacy of the beneficiaries, subject to their prior consent.
in writing. parliament has just laid the foundations for the deployment of ecall, an innovative system capable of automatically calling for help in the event of a car accident in europe. i want technological neutrality, which is a prerequisite for an efficient system capable of supporting innovation. while some manufacturers have already adopted comparable systems, i do not see the point in making them incompatible with ecall. let's avoid a lobbying war to dictate a system when so many lives are at stake. if ecall is to be technologically neutral, it must also be financially neutral. this innovation cannot be at the expense of the consumer. the system is intended to be general and compulsory. we cannot, under these conditions, impose an unreasonable expense on future buyers. i also think it is essential to create the conditions for free and undistorted competition so that abusive tariffs do not emerge. i therefore supported this recommendation in order to optimise the implementation of this innovative system. the free movement phase has become a reality in europe, security must not stop at the borders. europe must continue to be a leader in road safety.
in writing. another topic of this plenary session shows that the strategy for growth, employment and competitiveness of our enterprises is in place... she didn't wait for the french socialists. i voted in favour of a text which aims to attract foreign investors to europe. although europe remains the main destination for foreign direct investment, investors are concerned about low economic growth, high taxation and the accumulation of public debts. we must ensure that businesses can engage in open and fair competition, encourage entrepreneurship among local entrepreneurs, and make full use of the structural funds. the increasing difficulties faced by smes in accessing finance show us that investment in the real economy needs to be encouraged. as rapporteur for the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation on european social entrepreneurship funds, this is the kind of support i want to provide to social enterprises. i also welcome the political agreement reached on my report last week, which was achieved in particular thanks to the constructive proposals of the european commission and michel barnier's cabinet.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the attractiveness of investment in europe. the report identifies two objectives of the european union to revive investment: making europe an attractive destination for foreign investors and fostering entrepreneurship among local entrepreneurs. these measures are intended to counterbalance weak economic growth, high taxation and the build-up of public debt, which are major concerns for investors. i also support the requirements set out by the rapporteur in this document concerning the areas where we must focus our energy and action: meeting human capital needs, ensuring stability and improving access to finance, strengthening territorial cooperation, completing the single market and supporting research and innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the attractiveness of investment in europe. the report stresses the need to highlight the attractiveness of the structural funds and the single market in order to attract investors. i share the rapporteur's vision for an integrated investment strategy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. strengthening coordination in this area is a good thing given the difficult economic context we are facing in europe. it is about our ability to remain attractive and competitive in an increasingly competitive world.
in writing. europe has many instruments at its disposal to boost growth, strengthen market confidence and attract investment: it is time to take full advantage of them. that is what this report is about and that is why i voted in favour of it. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the development of the programmes 'erasmus for enterprises', 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' and 'cosme' for the competitiveness of smes. europe has enormous opportunities to promote exchanges and intercultural dialogue among entrepreneurs, especially the youngest. she has to take it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which encourages national governments to undertake the necessary reforms to improve the business climate in the union, in order to attract foreign investment to our territories. the member states must therefore make efforts to reassure investors by controlling their budgets, reforming corporate taxation and promoting access for smes to european credit and aid. the public funds of the european union must now be used as a priority for major projects, which are essential for the revitalization of our territories. the continuation and increase of investment must be a priority for all, for a rapid return to strong growth in the single market!
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because if we are to emerge unscathed from the current economic crisis, we must succeed in attracting global investors to the european union. europe remains the main destination region for foreign direct investment (fdi), but its share is declining. low economic growth, high taxation and debt are concerns for investors, which may be exacerbated by international competition, especially from emerging countries. the eu must address its weaknesses and exploit its competitive advantages. europe must be made an attractive destination for foreign investors and local entrepreneurs must be encouraged to become entrepreneurs. to achieve this, the eu must have a coherent political, economic and regulatory framework based on sustainable growth objectives and the community method. for example, we need to better meet human capital needs (through a focus on education and training), ensure stability and improve access to finance (particularly for smes), encourage the use of public-private partnerships, support research and innovation, or complete the single market. we need a coherent and realistic economic and trade policy.
in writing. attracting investment to the european union is a key element in the economic growth strategy. the union needs to maintain its position as the world's leading destination for foreign investment. it must therefore make investment a central element of all flagship initiatives under the europe 2020 strategy. to this end, parliament called on the commission to strengthen the coordination of the economic, fiscal and social policies of the member states with a view to attracting foreign investment. the report also calls for the full and effective exploitation of innovative investment opportunities. i voted in favour of this report at the july plenary session.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the attractiveness of investment in europe because, while we can be proud that europe is the world's leading destination for foreign direct investment, we must nevertheless take steps to maintain favourable conditions for this investment. the debt crisis and the lack of domestic investment could worry foreign investors. the report makes a number of recommendations, including an integrated investment strategy under the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. if the crisis has any benefit, it is that it makes us ask the right questions. this report answers that question. that is why i voted for it. but let us use our strength and our words wisely: it is not enough to list all the options available to us to attract investment to europe and thus to revive our economy. we must concentrate our efforts on the texts which will have the force of law in the coming years. i would like to speak of course about the guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy and their implications. i would like to mention in particular the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme, the cosme programme for enterprises and smes, and the reform of the structural funds. but not everything is happening inside europe. we must also be pragmatic with regard to the outside world and require that products entering our territory comply with the same health and social standards as our own products. otherwise, it is unfair competition. we must impose reciprocity in our trade. it is already in the text of our agreements, so why is the commission not doing anything?
in writing. six former republics of the ussr ukraine, belarus, moldova, armenia, azerbaijan and georgia are associated with the european union in the framework of the eastern partnership. the main objective of this partnership is to support these countries in their pursuit of democratic transition to prevent conflict in the region by opening up certain parts of our european market. i approved the recommendations made for each country, which differ according to their democratic progress and respect for the rule of law. we have advocated comprehensive and in-depth free trade areas but with the introduction of the 'more for more' principle, a new concept that links political progress towards broad democratization with economic trade liberalisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership, which follows up the joint communication of the european institutions on 'a new strategy for a changing neighbourhood'. the eastern partnership is made up of the european union on the one hand and armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine on the other. in a context where the union is the main export market and the main source of imports for these countries, it was important to develop new trade agreements to match changing economic needs and capacities. moreover, these agreements are in line with the principle of more for more. this concept links political progress towards broad democratization with economic liberalization in trade. the report also stresses the need to bring the regulations closer together in order to achieve gradual economic integration into the eu's internal market. this report therefore sends a strong political and economic signal to the eastern partnership countries and underlines our commitment to their side.
in writing. the union is now the main trading partner of ukraine, belarus, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and moldova. these countries must therefore transpose into their national legislation the standards required under the eastern partnership neighbourhood instrument. but it should be noted that some of them, such as belarus, which is ruled by an unrelenting dictatorship, and ukraine, which is struggling to establish a strong rule of law, are beset by serious political and economic difficulties. it is therefore the european union's responsibility to help establish a stable legal and economic environment in these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which supports the continuation of trade cooperation with our eastern neighbours on a win-win basis. the intensification of trade with these former soviet countries will ensure our energy supplies and will open up new potential markets for our companies. at the same time, these countries will be able to take advantage of our partnership to develop and diversify their economies and strengthen their democracies!
in writing. the european union is the main export market and the main source of imports for most of its neighbouring countries. this exchange of goods and services contributes significantly to economic growth. the conclusion of ambitious agreements by the european union with these countries is therefore essential. to this end, the establishment of a free trade area is the most appropriate and effective means of strengthening these economic links. the report provides for the gradual dismantling of barriers to trade and the convergence of trade regulations. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership because trade agreements with the eu's neighbours, i.e. armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine, would support growth with mutual benefits. in order to create free trade areas, we must work towards greater convergence of our partners' regulations with european standards.
in writing. for the majority of the eu's neighbours, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine, the eu is the main export market and the main source of imports. the deep and comprehensive free trade area is thus the most important and effective instrument we have had at our disposal for strengthening our trade links. the gradual dismantling of barriers to trade and the convergence of regulations in areas affecting trade are precisely what is envisaged by this comprehensive and in-depth free trade area. beyond the economic aspect, free trade areas can be an essential element of a wider political agreement, for example by leading to an association agreement. the rapporteur also stresses that with the signing of agreements and the creation of the free trade area, the european union could also help and strengthen the role of civil society, or guide reforms in both the public and private sectors. my vote in favour of mr ransdorf's report is a welcome sign of the social and democratic aims of this report, which are fundamental to our partnerships.
madam president, i was pleasantly surprised, as is not the custom, to say the least, that the parliamentary committee on international trade decided on 21 june to reject the international acta treaty, which will be put to the vote tomorrow. like my opposition in france to the bureaucratic censorship authority hadopi, which in some ways corresponds to a french acta and which has already shown real shortcomings - especially technical - in its fight against piracy of protected works, i will vote for this recommendation to bury this yet another liberticidal project, this time on a global scale, because acta is indeed a globalist liberticidal project. under the guise of fighting counterfeiting, acta's repressive logic towards individuals would surely lead to internet censorship, while threatening access to culture for the weakest of our fellow citizens, for the sole benefit of large private groups. finally, let me give you another set of analyses, because if we are overwhelmed by counterfeit or low-quality products in europe, is it not primarily because our countries are actually paying the price of europeanist policies and of the globalist and ultra-liberal dogma? is it not also the case that the european commission, despite the terrible financial, economic and social crisis we are facing today, still believes that our frontiers must remain open to the four winds of unfair and unfair competition? so yes, in conclusion, democracy and freedom require acta to be rejected at all costs.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to ask my colleague mr caspary how he can say that acta does not change european legislation when we are in the process of revising legislation on the protection of intellectual property and the protection of personal data. let us first legislate at european level and then see if we can make international agreements.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow our assembly will vote on the ratification of the international acta treaty. this is because this treaty infringes on public and digital freedoms and fundamental rights - freedom of expression, protection of personal data and privacy - but also because it will lead to unacceptable restrictions in the field of knowledge sharing, in the fields of culture, agriculture and in those of health and innovation for the benefit of a few that we must reject from acta. after three years of political and technical battles, will our parliament, the supreme and sole direct representative of the european citizens, live up to the expectations and the trust of the thousands of citizens who took to the streets of europe and flooded us with emails, of the 3 million europeans who approached our committee on petitions, of the citizens who elected us? yes, by voting against acta, for the freedoms. tomorrow, it is the citizen lobby that must win to say "bye bye acta, welcome democracy!" welcome to citizen and european democracy! welcome to the 21st century and the digital age! our choice, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is political, and it is a rejection of the world that acta offers us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, acta is a response to a general awareness of the damage caused by counterfeiting to the health and safety of our citizens: 250 billion euros lost every year by european companies, 100 000 jobs destroyed every year. in substance, acta does not create new intellectual property rights, but only the proportionate implementation (see article 6) of measures to combat counterfeiting of tangible goods. it is article 27, the only one relating to the digital environment, which has triggered a campaign of disinformation on the internet and has deceived public opinion into believing that there would be so-called individual criminalisation or control of access providers. that is why i appeal to the reason and courage of my colleagues to vote in the interests of our european economy and not under the pressure of the streets. we must vote for acta as we did last year, in the interests of the 38 signatory countries first, but also for its exemplary value vis-à-vis countries like china and india, which seemed to worry the opponents of acta. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i hope i misunderstood. i hope i'm not misunderstanding what you're saying, that counterfeit drugs save lives. generic drugs are another matter. i heard "counterfeit". there is a big difference! and as far as generics are concerned, there's no problem with acta. you know that! so i didn't understand the relevance of this question at all. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i think i am the best advocate for all these young people who are listening to us, and i am the one who is defending them, because i believe that it is certainly not in a debate like the one we are having today that we are going to provide them with jobs. i have given the figures for the economic damage caused by counterfeiting. i should add that in the intellectual property sector, which i deal with, i meet operators from the digital world all the time. i know what their employment potential is, for example in the exploitation of cloud computing, cloud computing. jobs for young people, there will be plenty of them, but i don't think all those young people who actually listen to us... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would first of all like to say to the commission that it is perfectly legitimate for the european parliament to do its work here and that, contrary to what you think or what you believe, the commission will have to hear the position of our parliament tomorrow. i will not go back to the issues of vagueness, ambiguity, public freedom, civil society related to the digital domain; i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. i just want to come back to a question which, for me, is a question of efficiency. how can the commission be satisfied with having an agreement which is supposed to fight against counterfeiting and which leaves out the two main producers of counterfeit goods in the world, china and india? i would remind you, however, that 85 percent of counterfeit goods come from china - these are 2010 figures - and 93 percent of counterfeit medicines come from india. if this agreement is rejected, and i believe and hope, of course, that it will be rejected tomorrow, the commission will have to take an offensive position to set up a new agreement in the wto and in the world intellectual property organization, with china and with india. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, tomorrow this parliament should reject acta. this is good news for democracy, because it is the sanction of a negotiation process which has chosen confidentiality and opacity over transparency and the involvement of the european parliament. i know that this is not your responsibility, commissioner. this is good news for democracy, because this parliament will choose culture, agriculture, health, communication over the big industrial groups. i am shocked to hear some members of the epp consider that the public interest is served by the large industrial groups and not by the citizens when they take over a social issue. this is good news for democracy, because millions of citizens have indeed mobilized, and there has been a great social debate, and i am glad that some members have come to this house to hear about democracy. finally, it is good news for democracy, because we are finally going to have a debate in our european societies about the balance between, on the one hand, public freedom and the sharing of knowledge and, on the other hand, the fair remuneration of creation and innovation.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that i regret that it has never been possible to have a peaceful debate on acta in the european parliament. commissioner, you negotiated this agreement, but neither you nor your services have been able to give a concrete and effective answer to the questions and concerns of the citizens, which have increased. ladies and gentlemen, throughout this campaign, the debate has focused on online rights and freedoms, but there has been very little talk about counterfeiting of physical goods. that said, this counterfeiting represents a loss of 30 to 40 000 jobs per year in my country alone - france - and almost 100 000 in europe. it means that our companies lose billions of euros in turnover every year, and that governments lose a lot of tax revenue. although covered by most of the provisions of acta, counterfeiting of tangible goods is almost entirely ignored. what is the solution to the trade in counterfeit medicines, which is a real threat to public health? what is the solution to allow our companies to innovate, to create, without fear of plagiarism on the other side of the world? let us bear these facts and figures in mind as we debate this afternoon, for we cannot spare any more time for a truly calm and constructive reflection on all counterfeiting.
mr president, a lot has been said at this hour. i would like to thank you very warmly, commissioner. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. thank you, commissioner, for getting hundreds of thousands of citizens to take to the streets and 2.8 million people to sign petitions. they have discovered that democracy is at play here, that the elected european representatives are the representatives of the people, their representatives. thank you again for the millions of netizens who followed the committee debates and votes and who are still following us today. i salute them! it is a breath of fresh air in our institutions too often perceived as technocratic. i thank you, commissioner, but in democracy there is another principle. that is the fundamental principle of responsibility. tomorrow we will take responsibility and i would like to thank you tomorrow for taking responsibility for your failure, for the failure of your working method.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, i thank mr la via for his summary report, but i think that employment must be one of the priorities in europe. i believe that europe must now devote all the energy it needs to establish genuine social governance, and this requires action to promote social convergence and cohesion. the 2013 budget should support flagship initiatives and among them, the one in favour of innovation, but the 2013 budget, although the last of the current multiannual framework, should not be limited to the payment of programmes at the end of their implementation. it should create a dynamic to help young jobseekers and to promote smes, the first creators of jobs in europe. we must not wait until 2014 to do more to combat unemployment and youth unemployment in particular. the esf, an essential instrument of social policy, must be reassessed and reoriented. we need to support the matching of skills to sectors suffering from a shortage of workers and, therefore, strengthen programmes such as progress, eures and the european microfinance facility. finally, it is essential that innovative and socially progressive actions undertaken by enterprises, whether very small, medium or large, should be able to benefit from financial support from the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the community budget is concerned, the credibility of the european council is now at stake. last friday the european council unanimously adopted a growth pact. it decided to allocate an additional 55 billion over two years from the structural funds to finance future investments. he did not specify what this supplement was. this is an intelligent, pragmatic and reasonable position. it respects the expenditure ceilings that were set five years ago. it is based on the considerable efforts made by the commission - to which i pay tribute - and by the national administrations to identify economically efficient projects. but of course it only makes sense if the announced appropriations can actually be mobilised, and thus committed and paid in the budget for the current year and in the 2013 budget. the question then arises: will the permanent representatives bury, next week, behind closed doors, the solemn decision taken by the heads of state and government a few days ago? if the union is today sick, if economic actors no longer have confidence, if the financial markets are sceptical, if citizens are doubtful, it is because too often governments exploit the diversity of the bodies that represent it to take contradictory decisions. no one understands what's really decided anymore. but when the house is on fire, that little game is no longer possible. it is now the responsibility of the cypriot presidency - and i regret its absence from this debate - to ensure that the decisions taken are implemented in good faith and thus avoid making the european council appear to be a summit of impotence or a summit of hypocrisy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, you are aware that consumer associations and human rights groups in several member states, including france, are responsible for checking the origin of products labelled 'made in israel', and these associations regularly denounce the presence of products from illegal settlements on our markets. and that's not uncommon! in the spirit of ethical consumption, it is therefore civil society that is trying to ensure the traceability of products imported from israel, since the european union has shown its inability to implement the 2005 technical agreement in accordance with international law. you will understand that i am very sceptical and doubtful about the possibility that you will give us guarantees on legally binding arrangements that will ensure that no more products from the colonies enter the european market. i would like to say that, as far as medicines are concerned, it is the children of gaza who not only do not have medicines, but who do not even have access to clean water and enough food to live. i think it is important to remember the overall context which, from a humanitarian and human rights point of view, is a dramatic one and one cannot just talk about trade without talking about this.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate our colleague, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, on his work on this report. the transitional proposal before us is a sensible one. we will support it, even though i remain opposed to the system of decoupled payments and surface aid. the fairest and most efficient is a wage mechanism based on work rather than area, which promotes industrial agriculture. i would also like to take this opportunity to say that i believe that in the context of the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy, a mechanism for fixing basic prices for a set of production data with the modulation of aid according to geographical data, employment and the environment should be reviewed. finally, i believe that we must firmly defend the budget of the common agricultural policy for agricultural incomes, for employment and, ultimately, for social justice and the environment.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr christofias, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of cyprus is taking over the presidency of the council at a decisive moment for europe. i have already said that the european council just yesterday devoted 30 meetings to the economic crisis, and it is not over. thirty meetings and just the beginning of a plan of action last week. that is why i am asking the new presidency this morning to show courage and determination. i hope that this presidency will convince its 26 partners to decide in favour of an integrated europe, a political europe, a europe that is finally sovereign, because it is finally united. the economic crisis is both a challenge and an opportunity. the challenge is the competitiveness of our economy and unemployment, which is at a record high of 11%. the opportunity to do what the eurozone states should have done from the beginning is to pursue a common economic policy, a policy of budgetary balance and, above all, a long-term investment policy. mr christofias, although you and i come from radically different political parties, my group supports the priorities of your presidency. i have particularly taken up an expression which is very dear to me: the community method. and now i know i can count on you. like you, the group of the european people's party wants the european union to be more efficient, more relevant, more effective and to return to growth. on this basis, we must act. to take advantage of the 20th anniversary of the single market in the autumn to finally complete the work begun under jacques delors and implement the single market act as soon as possible. act by fully implementing the services directive. act by creating a true digital single market. we must act further by reducing the burden on our small and mediumsized enterprises. all these measures are generating growth, and therefore generating jobs. these are the measures which i ask you, mr president, to take with this parliament and in close cooperation with the commission. another fundamental aspect of your presidency is the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework. my group hopes and wishes that things will move forward in this respect during the course of the current six months, in the awareness that the european budget is an investment budget, a growth budget and also an employment budget. investing 27 in infrastructure, investing 27 in energy networks, or in education, research and innovation, cohesion policies, food security, and you spoke of food aid for the poorest, i believe, and on that issue too you have my full support. this is also a credible and tangible response to the crisis. the cypriot presidency will find in the european parliament an active and committed interlocutor on these financial perspectives, provided that the budget provided is sufficient and adapted to the needs. we will see to it, but we will help you to arrive at the end of the year with a christmas gift package for this budget of the multiannual financial framework. now, mr president, ladies and gentlemen - mr barroso, don't laugh, the package will be good, you will see - i would like to address another subject this morning before you, namely the worrying political situation that has prevailed in one of our member countries, romania, for the past few days. yesterday, the vice-president of the european commission, viviane reding, expressed her deep concern. i quote her: 'in the face of recent attacks on the independence of the constitutional court of this country, an independent and well-functioning judicial system is a prerequisite for mutual trust in the judicial sector in europe.' my group shares the commission's concerns and i myself expressed my concern last week about the way democracy is currently functioning in romania. this morning i am asking the commission very sincerely that despite the summer break it continue to follow this dossier as it has followed others. it is important that we make progress over the next six months on the various issues on the table and, mr christofias, we are counting on you. you can do a lot of good things.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, as a corsican member of parliament, i warmly welcome your presidency, which is both insular and mediterranean. it is important, in the present crisis, to make the expectations of this vital area for the future of europe heard. the crisis is hitting the european shores of the mediterranean hard and we are all, in cyprus, greece, italy, spain, the south of france, bound by the same community of destinies. we are also bound by a common duty: to live up to the expectations of all the citizens of the countries neighbouring the european union who, in the spring of 2011, expressed their hope for a better life, their desire to have access to genuine democracy and to have fruitful relations with europe, through the ties which, since time immemorial, have linked all the peoples of the mediterranean area. yesterday, the european parliament adopted by a majority of over 90% a report which i submitted, recommending the establishment of macro-regional strategies in the mediterranean. this new form of european territorial cooperation has shown in the baltic sea that it improves the effectiveness of the various development policies of the european union. it is therefore important that it is also structured in the mediterranean, ahead of the new 2014-2020 programming, so that it is effective and operational. it is time to give a positive signal to the mediterranean area in crisis and to take responsibility for its future with voluntary initiatives. i therefore hope that cyprus, together with more than 50 other members of the european parliament who voted for this report yesterday, will use its six-month presidency to put into practice the first initiatives which will shape future macro-regional strategies in the mediterranean.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, have you read the treaty on european union? the treaty does not speak of a market economy, but of a social market economy. of the union's values, you have mentioned only the question of values and democracy. but it must be embodied in its social dimension, in social protection, in social dialogue, in collective bargaining, which you obviously seem to ignore completely. when you talk about monopolies, do you also have in mind the existence of private monopolies that can bring countries to their knees, like goldman sachs in greece? when you talk about the internal market, do you have a global conception of the internal market, a conception which is in line with the internal market we need, that is to say an internal market which also includes a dimension of fiscal and social harmonization?
mr president, i think that marit paulsen's report on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals has found a balance and takes account of the needs of agricultural production. that is why i voted in favour of it, despite some initial mistrust. over the years, farmers have improved their practices to meet consumer demands. this resolution offers very interesting ideas for making this animal welfare policy a value-add for the protection of animals but also and above all for european production. it highlights a new approach to our trade policy, with the promotion of high standards for our farmers at its core. in the field of negotiation and consumer information, the quality of our production must be emphasized to counteract distortions of competition. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the animal welfare strategy is consistent with safeguarding productivity. animal welfare must be protected, but on the basis of sound scientific evidence, and must not contribute to unnecessarily overburdening what is already an extremely heavy regulatory work.
in writing. to avoid making eu legislation too complicated and technical, the lisbon treaty modernised the system for delegating certain powers to the european commission in the event of minor legislative changes. this avoids the need to revise a text entirely by going through the entire legislative process. as regards the common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, i voted in favour of certain adjustments and approved the simplifications which will benefit farmers. we wanted to reduce the administrative burden or to give member states the possibility of exempting farmers who do not apply for area aid and who declare only small areas from the obligation to declare areas.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which, in the important case of aid to farmers, gives concrete expression to the implementation of the lisbon treaty and strengthens the powers of european citizens who, through their representatives in parliament, will be able to make their position known in the matter of drawing up and monitoring european regulations. the text also simplifies procedures and reduces administrative costs, so that the strengthening of european law is no longer synonymous with complexity and expense.
in writing. the rules on direct support to farmers need to be updated as regards the commission's delegated and implementing powers. in the event of an emergency, the commission may, by means of delegated acts, amend annexes to the regulation and adopt new measures. the commission may also, by means of implementing acts, provide specific targeted support to member states. the european parliament has adopted this report by a very large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. with this report, we show that europe can react quickly. legal specifications must remain the tools of our policy, not become insurmountable obstacles. the alignment of legislation was an urgent necessity, particularly for the agricultural sector, which has suffered greatly in recent years. it is time for europe to lead the way by imposing regulation on agricultural markets so that excessive fluctuations do not worsen their financial situation a little more. the cap reform already provides a new framework, in particular through contractualisation.
in writing. as regards the report on the european agricultural fund for rural development, i supported the desire to improve its effective and targeted use in relation to the treatment of beneficiaries, which is achieved through delegated acts. in general, the conditions for receiving such aid are lower. the european union sometimes seems too complicated, when we need to simplify procedures. here, the number of annual progress reports and summaries under rural development is reduced, cross compliance checks are facilitated and the rules for the use of advisory services are amended. these elements should help to reduce the administrative burden on member states and simplify the lives of beneficiaries!
in writing. with this report, we show that europe can react quickly. legal specifications must remain the tools of our policy, not become insurmountable obstacles. the alignment of legislation was an urgent necessity, particularly for the agricultural sector, which has suffered greatly in recent years. it is time for europe to lead the way by imposing regulation on agricultural markets so that excessive fluctuations do not worsen their financial situation a little more. the cap reform already provides a new framework, in particular through contractualisation.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which, in the particular case of the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), gives substance to the implementation of the lisbon treaty and strengthens the powers of european citizens who, through their representatives in parliament, will be able to make their position known in the development and monitoring of european regulation. the text also simplifies procedures and reduces administrative costs, so that the strengthening of european law is no longer synonymous with complexity and expense.
in writing. the european agricultural fund's rural development regulation needs to be clarified in the light of the introduction of implementing and delegated acts by the lisbon treaty. the conditions for the exercise of the delegation of power should therefore be specified. moreover, support for rural development should only concern farmers or associations who spend a substantial part of their working time on agricultural activities and derive a significant part of their income from them. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by 645 votes in favour by the european parliament at its july plenary session.
in writing. the european union has established common rules for agricultural markets. these rules concern in particular public intervention in markets, quota and aid schemes, marketing and production standards and trade with third countries. beyond the legal changes that need to be implemented, i endorsed the rapporteur's recommendations, which stress the importance of rapidly adopting the new regulation on the common organisation of the market (com) in order to ensure market stability and a satisfactory standard of living for the farmers we have to support here in parliament on a daily basis!
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which, in the specific case of common rules on agricultural markets, gives substance to the implementation of the lisbon treaty. by strengthening the european parliament's power of scrutiny over european regulation, it allows our european citizens to make their views heard, through their representatives!
in writing. the report aims to align the existing regulation with the regime of delegated and implementing acts. delegated and implementing acts are powers conferred on the commission by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this update is not intended to affect the original powers. the commission is empowered to fix the amounts by means of implementing acts, whereas the definition of the conditions and criteria for fixing the amounts of aid, export refunds and minimum prices remains a matter for the legislator. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament at its july plenary session.
in writing. to avoid making eu legislation too complicated and technical, the lisbon treaty has modernised the system for delegating certain powers to the european commission in the event of minor legislative changes. this avoids the need to revise a text entirely by going through the entire legislative process. all existing legislation must therefore be adapted to this new legal reality. i have approved the proposed amendments which again aim to lighten the administrative burden on the member states. europe must be more accessible and i work on it every day!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common agricultural policy. i support the proposals to amend the conditions for delegation (period of delegation, time limit for objecting to a delegated act, extension of the time limit, committee procedure, etc.). the report aims to simplify the regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy by classifying the provisions into delegated and implementing powers. the amendments concerning the expenditure to be financed by the eagf and the recovery procedure also represent a simplification due to the elimination of two council regulations and the reduction of the administrative burden on the member states. it seems to me important to prepare the reform of the european common agricultural policy in this direction.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which, in the particular case of our important common agricultural policy (cap), gives substance to the implementation of the lisbon treaty and strengthens the powers of european citizens who, through their representatives in parliament, will be able to make their position known in the matter of drawing up and monitoring european regulations. the text also simplifies procedures and reduces administrative costs, so that the strengthening of european law is no longer synonymous with complexity and expense.
in writing. the report aims to align the existing regulation with the regime of delegated and implementing acts, which are powers conferred on the commission by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. this update is not intended to affect the essential provisions originally envisaged. the report provides for amendments to the rules of procedure only as regards the conditions for delegation, namely the period of delegation, the time limit for objecting to a delegated act, the extension of the time limit and the committee procedure. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament.
in writing. to avoid making eu legislation too complicated and technical, the lisbon treaty has modernised the system for delegating certain powers to the european commission in the event of minor legislative changes. this avoids the need to revise a text entirely by going through the entire legislative process. amendments may be necessary to take account of scientific or technical progress, new facts or to adapt quantitative data. we are talking about organic production and labelling of organic products. as the rapporteur points out, the delegated acts will make it possible to 'better meet consumers' expectations as regards the quality of organic products and to ensure the correct application of the rules by the authorities, bodies and operators concerned, as well as the proper functioning of the single market and trade'.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which, in the specific case of the production and labelling of organic products, gives substance to the implementation of the lisbon treaty. by strengthening the european parliament's power of scrutiny over european regulation, it enables our european citizens to make their views heard through their representatives.
in writing. the report aims to align the existing regulation with the regime of delegated and implementing acts, which are powers conferred on the commission by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this update is not intended to affect the essential provisions originally envisaged. in order to better meet consumers' expectations as regards the quality of organic products and to ensure the proper functioning of the single market, the commission shall adopt the measures necessary for the application of the regulation. these measures concern in particular the authorisation of products and substances intended for use in organic production and labelling rules. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by the european parliament by a very large majority.
in writing. to avoid making eu legislation too complicated and technical, the lisbon treaty has modernised the system for delegating certain powers to the european commission in the event of minor legislative changes. here the proposal is limited to the amendments necessary for this adaptation and i have approved this alignment.
in writing. the report aims to align the existing regulation with the regime of delegated and implementing acts, which are powers conferred on the commission by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this update is not intended to affect the essential provisions originally envisaged. the report also provides for clarification of the text as regards the conditions for delegating acts. i supported this report, which was adopted by 654 votes in the european parliament at its july plenary session.
in writing. negotiations on russia's entry into the world trade organisation (wto) have been ongoing for nearly two decades. the russian parliament has until the end of july to vote on the wto accession agreement. this week i approved several agreements which are more favourable to the european union than those which will result from the wto rules. eu companies should benefit from more favourable conditions under the agreement, which will improve conditions for service providers establishing themselves in the country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu-russia agreements on trade in services contained in the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement. by becoming a member of the world trade organization, russia has committed itself to more open economic liberalism through bilateral trade agreements with the european union. these agreements represent a real step forward in opening up certain sectors to foreign suppliers. russia also committed to promoting a wider range of services and a higher quality of service. it should be noted that these structural changes require adjustments to russian law, particularly in the areas of commercial law and competition law. the european union is therefore sending a strong signal of support to russia in pursuing these reforms, which are a sign of a strengthening of their trade relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the maintenance of a bilateral eu-russia regime more favourable than that adopted at international level. as a result of its accession to the wto, russia has committed itself to liberalizing its trade regime in many sectors of services. however, in the areas of maritime trade and temporary movement of employees for professional purposes, russia's commitments are below those in the existing bilateral agreement with the european union. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is a further step in the defence of our interests.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this agreement, which is a new stage in trade cooperation with russia as it joins the wto. the opening up of the russian market for services (telecommunications, insurance, tourism, transport, etc.) to foreign competition is a real challenge, both for russian consumers, who will benefit from a wider and better range of services, and for our european companies, who will find new outlets!
in writing. as a result of its accession to the wto, russia is taking on a number of commitments to the general agreement on trade in services. however, at the multilateral level, russia has achieved liberalisation with variable geometry in some sectors. this commitment to variable geometry is not conceivable in the framework of eu-russia relations. the object of this agreement is therefore to maintain a bilateral regime which is more balanced than that adopted at multilateral level and which is in the interests of the european union. the european parliament has adopted this report, and i welcome that.
in writing. negotiations on russia's entry into the world trade organisation (wto) have been ongoing for nearly two decades. the russian parliament has until the end of july to vote on the wto accession agreement. this week i approved several agreements which are more favourable to the european union than those which will result from the wto rules. eu companies should benefit from more favourable conditions under this agreement which will improve conditions for eu car parts manufacturers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and russia on trade in parts and components for motor vehicles. the agreement establishes a backstop mechanism for the european union in the event of a decline in european exports of vehicle components to russia. indeed, this safeguard will be reflected in the form of additional tariff reductions if the decrease in european exports is due to trade-related and investment-related measures in russia to support local automotive production until 2018.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text following russia's accession to the wto. the european union must, however, demand that our russian partner comply as quickly as possible with the fairness rules laid down by the organization, so that the benefits and restrictions of reciprocity are finally at stake with this economic partner!
in writing. as a result of its wto membership, russia has been granted a waiver until 2018 from the full application of the amic, the trade-related investment agreement. these derogations would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of european manufacturers of automotive parts and components to the benefit of those based in russia. in this context, the agreement advocates mechanisms that will guarantee reduced customs duties to european exporters. these mechanisms will be used in the event of a decline in european exports. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by a large majority in the plenary, and i welcome that.
in writing. negotiations on russia's entry into the world trade organisation (wto) have been ongoing for nearly two decades. the russian parliament has until the end of july to vote on the wto accession agreement. this week i approved several agreements which are more favourable to the european union than those which will result from the wto rules. eu companies are expected to benefit from more favourable conditions under this agreement, which will improve the conditions of producers who depend on raw materials from russia.
in writing. while i welcome russia's commitment to gradually reduce or even eliminate export duties on certain raw materials, i note that russia is nevertheless still allowed to introduce new customs duties on products not listed in the annexed protocol to the wto accession. that is why i voted in favour of this bilateral agreement which introduces an additional list of raw materials, which includes the same commitments as those in the wto list. i note that this list includes certain agricultural products, minerals or products of animal origin which are of major interest to the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which reflects our common desire to strengthen and rebalance our partnership with russia as it joins the wto. russia must now honour its commitments and thus promote the establishment of fair trading conditions with the union for our raw material supplies.
in writing. as part of its accession to the wto, russia has committed itself to progressively reducing or eliminating its current export duties on certain raw materials, which are listed in the annex to the accession protocol. however, certain raw materials are not covered by these undertakings. that is why my colleague inese vaidere's report provides for an additional list of raw materials which will now form an integral part of the commitments between the european union and russia. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted in the july 2012 plenary session.
in writing. the socialists have always denounced the lack of transparency in the conduct of the negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) and our fight for the rejection of this agreement has continued to gain ground in parliament, where five parliamentary committees rejected it. so there was only one responsible response we could give to the citizens for acta: the rejection of it by the parliament in plenary. despite the many delaying manoeuvres of the right wing, and of the epp in particular, that is what we parliamentarians have done today and i welcome that. our assembly thus remains at the forefront of protecting the highest european standards of fundamental rights. i would like to pay tribute to the work of kader arif, whom i am succeeding. acta was the worst possible response to a real problem: an agreement that was ineffective in tackling the scourge of counterfeiting, but above all an agreement that was potentially dangerous for the fundamental freedoms of european citizens because of its great legal vagueness. in addition, it raised many other concerns about neutrality, free access to the internet, access to generic medicines or protection of geographical indications. it was definitely not!
in writing. i chose to abstain from voting on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) for two reasons. firstly, as a procedure is under way before the court of justice of the european union, i think it is necessary to wait for its conclusion before making a final decision. this is not only the result of common sense but also of respect for the rule of law and effective cooperation between institutions. secondly, while acta is not a perfect solution to counterfeiting, it is a constructive proposal, aimed at protecting innovation, jobs and our businesses. by protecting intellectual property rights, acta also protects us. in france, for example, counterfeiting destroys 30 000 to 40 000 jobs a year, and in europe nearly 100 000. therefore, in the absence of any certainty as to the compatibility or incompatibility of the agreement with community law, and in the current context of crisis, i considered that i did not have the information necessary to take an informed decision and therefore i preferred to abstain.
in writing. i welcome the rejection of acta, this international agreement negotiated in a certain opacity, with such a wide scope and legal consequences so uncertain that it has provoked an unprecedented citizen mobilization. there is no doubt that the civic engagement of millions of europeans - over 2.5 million signatories to the petition against acta - has influenced the political debate on this issue and its rejection by the european parliament. this is a point for european democracy and we should applaud the citizens who have been mobilized: when they take up a subject, even if it is difficult to access, they help to democratize the debate and influence the final result. acta was problematic in both form and substance. it was surprising at first that such an agreement on the fight against counterfeiting and intellectual property rights could be concluded without china! the method used, namely the negotiations conducted by the european commission, which largely ignore public debate, should not be forgotten either. finally, many concerns remained on the substance, particularly on respect for individual freedoms: for example, there was the question of whether internet service providers should be obliged to disclose the identity of internet users suspected of illegal downloading.
in writing. i chose to abstain from voting on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) for two reasons. firstly, as a procedure is under way before the court of justice of the european union, i think it is necessary to wait for its conclusion before making a final decision. this is not only the result of common sense but also of respect for the rule of law and effective cooperation between institutions. secondly, while acta is not a perfect solution to counterfeiting, it is a constructive proposal, aimed at protecting innovation, jobs and our businesses. by defending intellectual property rights, acta also protects them. in france, for example, counterfeiting destroys 30 000 to 40 000 jobs a year, and in europe nearly 100 000. therefore, in the absence of any certainty as to the compatibility or incompatibility of the agreement with community law, and in the current context of crisis, i considered that i did not have the information necessary to take an informed decision and therefore i preferred to abstain.
in writing. i voted against this useless and dangerous text, which has had the sole merit of creating a pan-european debate and of highlighting the democratic counter-powers that exist in europe in the face of the relentless lobbying of a few large multinationals. today we have not only voted against acta, we have voted for european democracy. in defiance of the treaties, the citizens and the democratic principles of the union, the european commission has been negotiating acta since 2007 behind the backs of the european parliament. the use of the court of justice of the european union is only the latest expression of the european parliament's flagrant disregard for democratic balance. the european commissioner for trade, mr de gucht, must now take responsibility for his failure, for his words and his working methods.
in writing. after a massive campaign of disinformation, acta was rejected by the european parliament. only one article was about internet users. the text was first intended to protect us against counterfeiting, particularly of intellectual property. the rejection of this proposal opens the way to the relocation of jobs outside europe and the strengthening of the black economy, child labour and other forms of exploitation! congratulations to the fathers of this failure !
in writing. this agreement reflects the need for stronger protection of intellectual property rights at global level: it is an indispensable tool for a europe of innovation and growth. the fears expressed by many citizens focused on the risks this agreement poses to fundamental rights. in the face of these fears, it was important to ask the court of justice of the eu to rule on the compatibility of the agreement with the european treaties, and in particular with the charter of fundamental rights. pending that decision, the postponement of the vote would have been the decision to be taken. since this postponement was rejected, i preferred to abstain from approving the agreement.
in writing. parliament rejected acta by a large majority. the efta played a decisive role in this decisive vote which should deal a fatal blow to the ratification process. i welcome this logical outcome. how could we have been satisfied with an agreement supposedly to combat counterfeiting when the two biggest counterfeiters in the world, china and india, are not signatories? the issue of ipr protection is vital to boost the creation, research and innovation of european enterprises, in particular smes. the commission must take an offensive stance and set up a mechanism without delay to enable a new agreement to be reached within the wto jointly with the wipo, including china and india. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. in the future, it is no longer conceivable that this type of international agreement will not be negotiated in the greatest transparency, with all the actors, and above all the citizens and their representatives, informed and consulted.
in writing. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta), signed by the eu with 10 of its partners, has been the subject of considerable media and political attention for several months, given the challenges of fighting counterfeiting and the impact it may have on web practices. i therefore hope that the european parliament will be able to take a calm and informed decision once the court of justice of the european union has provided its legal expertise on the text. that is why i abstained on this vote, which should have been held after the ecj decision!
in writing. our old francs had the following inscription: "counterfeiters will be punished with forced labor for life". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat counterfeiting. the protection of intellectual property rights is a driver of technical innovation and a fair reward for researchers and artistic creation. defending intellectual property is absolutely necessary. this anti-counterfeiting agreement negotiated by the european commission is not satisfactory in many respects. there is a lot of talk about border controls in this agreement, but the union has done away with them internally and not really strengthened them externally. furthermore, acta focuses on the spread of counterfeiting and probably not enough on the counterfeiters. anyway, it's done without them. in the end, the legitimate objective of acta is undermined by a poor methodology, a lack of clarity, too many objectives and therefore uncertain effectiveness and consequences.
in writing. i have spoken here several times on acta, firstly to express my indignation at the lack of transparency in the negotiations, and therefore at the commission's methods which are common when it comes to negotiating international agreements which are harmful to european nations. of course i will vote against this agreement, but it was not the only attempt at european level to stifle internet freedom under the guise of respect for intellectual property rights or the fight against cybercrime. in the first case, we are actually giving in to certain industrial lobbies attached to their super profits, in the second, we confuse real crime (terrorism, human trafficking, paedophilia) with the downloading of some mp3 files. this relentless attack on the internet, the last place of freedom of expression and information on this continent, is not only suspicious. it is symptomatic of the soviet-like aspect of brussels europe, which intends to control not only our plates and our behaviour but also our thoughts and opinions.
in writing. i voted decisively against acta because it was too uncertain and too risky for the fundamental rights of europeans. but acta had the merit of tackling real challenges: protecting intellectual property against counterfeiting and piracy and bringing to the table real challenges for business, creativity and intellectual property rights in europe and the world, which are a necessity. but the negotiation of the agreement did not reconcile these imperatives with the protection of individual freedoms and the fundamental rights of citizens. the outcome of the vote could not have been different. this is a historic vote, as it is the first time that the european parliament has rejected an international trade agreement since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i regret that the european parliament today refused to adopt an international instrument to combat counterfeiting more effectively without even waiting for the opinion of the court of justice of the european union. the aim of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) is not to redefine the scope of protection of intellectual property rights, such as patents or trademarks, but to coordinate the mechanisms for protecting these rights in order to better combat counterfeiting. i would remind you that in 2009 the international trade in counterfeit goods was worth about 250 billion dollars. the number of cases identified in europe has increased by 920% in ten years. this is probably 2.5 million jobs lost. as far as piracy is concerned, there are 1.4 million smes in europe (out of 22 million) working in the film, music and book industries. contrary to some common beliefs, there was never any question of cutting off citizens' access to the internet, let alone monitoring individuals. it was really about creating a coherent global framework and making sure that in every country we have good intellectual property protection to protect our businesses and our jobs.
in writing. i voted against acta because it became clear during the discussions that this agreement was incompatible with the values and rules of european law, which i defend as a member of the european parliament. the formal outcome of the extremely opaque negotiations was impossible to guarantee, even though the rights of european citizens were at stake. in substance, this agreement is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights because some of its articles open the door to the risk of control of internet users, including innocent users, which would constitute a violation of the law. with a large number of vague wordings, it does not provide the legal certainty required to prosecute cases of infringement of intellectual property rights. if the fight against counterfeiting is a legitimate objective, it is still necessary to have an instrument which is really effective in this process, which acta does not allow, in the absence of important partners such as china or india. and, above all, we must defend the fundamental freedom of expression of our citizens.
in writing. like 38 colleagues in the european parliament, i have chosen to support acta whose main objectives to create a framework to fight counterfeiting, safeguard thousands of jobs and protect our smes have been obscured by the crystallization of fears, fuelled by well-organized networks, around the threat of the violation of the fundamental freedoms of our citizens. i understand these concerns, but i regret the political use that has been made of them. the legal service of the parliament has twice confirmed that the agreement is compatible with the european charter of fundamental rights, the treaties and the acquis communautaire. the european ombudsman considered that the negotiation procedure was normal. the commission had referred the case to the court of justice of the eu for a ruling on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties. the opinion has not yet been delivered, but parliament has acquiesced to the pressure of its critics. this agreement was not about criminalizing internet users or enforcing surveillance by internet service providers. this agreement was precisely to protect the jobs, of which 40 000 are destroyed every year, and the smes which are threatened by this unfair practice.
in writing. the fight against counterfeiting is a priority. this is not only a matter for our european economy, but also for the health of european consumers. the court of justice of the european union has been seized of the agreement's compliance with citizens' rights, and it seemed to me quite unreasonable to reject it in haste. that is why i supported the postponement of the vote in the first place. the vote was unfortunately rejected by a large majority of 420 votes against. secondly, i chose to support the agreement because, after a detailed analysis, it seemed to me to respect the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. this vote has provoked an aggressive reaction towards my colleagues in the yes side and towards myself. aggression, under the guise of intimidation and anonymity, which is not acceptable. i therefore urge my critics to give acta a serious look in the light of the protection of intellectual property but also the protection of individual freedoms. i would like to remind you that the very essence of democracy is freedom of thought and expression and that votes are never mandatory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) to protect the european internal market from counterfeit goods. although this text was not approved by parliament, i have defended the interest of such an international agreement for europe in order to preserve competitiveness, innovation and jobs. today, counterfeiting represents a loss of €6 billion for our businesses, destroys almost 40 000 jobs and poses significant risks to the health and safety of our citizens. in this context of crisis, this agreement offers a real protection for our economy. i also regret that parliament did not wait for the decision of the court of justice of the european union, which is called upon to rule on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties and fundamental rights, before voting on it. that is why i voted in favour of postponing the vote on acta. the protection of our community space is a major issue which we must be aware of.
in writing. while i welcome the interest of citizens in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, and have heard all their concerns and concerns, my role as a member of the european parliament is primarily to serve the general interest. the general interest is to combat counterfeiting, which in france is costing thousands of jobs, is reducing the turnover of our companies by several billion euros and is depriving the state of millions of euros in tax revenue. counterfeit products also pose a significant health risk to european consumers. in the current economic crisis, and in the face of these arguments, the choice of some of my colleagues to reject the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement in a hurry, without waiting for the verdict of the eu court of justice, seems to me to be completely unreasonable. i share the analysis of the legal opinions that have been given by parliament's legal service and i am convinced that acta can be implemented with respect for the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. that is why, in accordance with my previous votes on this agreement, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. while i welcome the interest of citizens in the international anti-counterfeiting agreement and have heard all their concerns and concerns, my role as a member of the european parliament is primarily to serve the general interest. the general interest is to combat counterfeiting, which in europe costs more than 100 000 jobs a year, costs our companies 230 billion euros and deprives governments of millions of euros in tax revenue. counterfeit products also pose a significant health risk to european consumers. in the current economic crisis, and in the face of these arguments, the decision of some of my colleagues to reject the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement in a hurry, without waiting for the verdict of the court of justice of the european union, seems to me to be completely unreasonable. i share the analysis of the legal opinions that have been given by parliament's legal service and i am convinced that acta can be implemented with respect for the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. that is why, in accordance with my previous votes on this agreement, i voted in favour.
in writing. in europe, creation, research and innovation are suffering. in order to promote growth, restoring confidence to all the actors involved is a major challenge, and in this perspective, the protection of intellectual property rights is obviously crucial. but acta (the trade agreement negotiated by the eu and its member states, the united states, australia, canada, japan, mexico, morocco, new zealand, singapore, south korea and switzerland to improve the implementation of international anti-counterfeiting laws) is not the answer. the treaty was drawn up outside multilateral bodies such as the wto, and the alleged infringing countries are not party to the agreement (85% of the goods infringing intellectual property rights come from china, which is not a signatory). furthermore, many ambiguities in the definitions contained in acta raise concerns that privacy or the protection of personal information is not guaranteed, which is unacceptable. for all these reasons i have refused to give my consent to the conclusion of this agreement. i am glad that, following the rejection vote in parliament, neither the eu nor any member state can join the agreement.
in writing. i chose to abstain from voting on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) for two reasons. firstly, as a procedure is under way before the court of justice of the european union, i think it is necessary to wait for its conclusion before making a final decision. this is not only the result of common sense but also of respect for the rule of law and effective cooperation between institutions. secondly, while acta is not a perfect solution to counterfeiting, it is a constructive proposal, aimed at protecting innovation, jobs and our businesses. by defending intellectual property rights, acta also protects them. it is worth recalling that counterfeiting destroys between 30 000 and 40 000 jobs a year in france and almost 100 000 in europe. therefore, in the absence of certainty as to the compatibility or incompatibility of the agreement with community law, and in the current context of crisis, i considered that i did not have the information necessary to take an informed decision and i preferred to abstain.
in writing. in 2005, international trade in counterfeit goods amounted to $200 billion, excluding digital goods, according to oecd estimates. for the first time, on 1 october 2011, 22 member states signed an agreement with 8 countries, from the united states to morocco, japan and south korea, to end the trade in counterfeit products that threaten the economic viability of businesses and the safety of consumers. we must be aware of the historical significance of this agreement. however, concerns have been raised about compliance with the eu charter of fundamental rights. it would have been wise to wait for the opinion of the court of justice, the authority best placed to decide this question. it is in this spirit that i voted for the postponement of the vote. unfortunately, the other political groups considered that the opinion of the court was superfluous in deciding the fate of the text. in this context, i decided to base my vote on the positive opinions of parliament's legal service and to vote for increased protection of intellectual property in international trade.
in writing. i voted against the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) because it seems unreasonable to vote before the ruling of the eu court of justice on acta's respect for fundamental rights. the negotiations have lacked transparency, there are controversial provisions in the text and it is not clear enough that the individual rights of internet users are respected. however, i support the fight against counterfeiting, which in france is costing thousands of jobs and depriving the state of millions of euros in tax revenue. counterfeit products also pose a significant health risk to european consumers. it is therefore essential to find a new legal framework that will be negotiated in full transparency with civil society in particular.
in writing. parliament has voted and rejected the anti-counterfeiting agreement, which has been widely commented on in public opinion. while we can be pleased that european citizens are taking part in the debate, i regret that the reflections have been polluted by the dissemination of misinformation. to put an end to any misunderstanding and to ensure the legality of this long-negotiated agreement, i have voted in favour of postponing the vote, considering that we must await the decision of the court of justice. some political forces felt the need to bypass this procedure, which would have allowed the debate to resume on a sound basis. intellectual property has always been protected by states and must now be protected at international level, in a context of globalisation and digitalisation of trade. this is a necessity if we are to prevent the destruction of a few hundred thousand jobs and a 250 billion euro net loss from counterfeiting. that's why i supported this agreement; the situation required a strong and coordinated response. a more calm and fair debate would have been preferable. i will be watching closely for the court's decision and i call on the commission to do what is necessary to open new negotiations.
in writing. on 4 july, the european parliament made some amendments to the commission's proposal on the application of the direct payments scheme for 2013, which is part of the 2014-2020 financial framework currently under negotiation. the long-term objective is to reduce inequalities in direct payments to farmers in different parts of the european union. however, as my colleague michel dantin, a specialist in the common agricultural policy, points out, in some member states 'a rapid reduction in support would lead to the closure of farms'. a balanced approach is therefore needed, taking account of the new member states of the european union while preserving the agricultural sector of other countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on direct payments to farmers. this proposal concerns the year 2013 of the next multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 and the amounts of rural development aid that it will withhold. its main objective is to set net ceilings for direct payments for calendar year 2013 by establishing an adjustment mechanism similar to modulation in order to ensure continuity in payment levels, while taking into account the gradual introduction of direct payments in the new member states and the cessation of optional modulation. it is therefore important to maintain the volume of direct support in 2013 and beyond at a level similar to that of 2012 and to put in place a transitional mechanism for 2013 in order to avoid market distortions resulting from the different methods of application of the recent cap reforms in the different member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to extend certain financial provisions of the direct payments regulation until the end of 2013. it seems to me important to ensure continuity in payment levels pending the implementation of the reformed common agricultural policy from 2014. i welcome the idea of creating a reserve fund to meet financing needs in the event of an agricultural crisis.
in writing. the regulation on direct payment to farmers is in force until the end of 2013. however, some of the financial provisions it provides for will expire before that date. this report, for reasons of consistency, aims to amend the regulation by extending the application of these financial provisions until the end of 2013. the european parliament has adopted this report by a very large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. this week i called on governments to negotiate the 2013 budget in a responsible way. we have given a mandate to parliament's negotiating team, led by rapporteur giovani la via, a colleague from the european people's party, to avoid a deadlock in the budget negotiations with the council of ministers and the european commission. the attitude of the european commission is highly questionable and our spokesman had to have all our support to fight this fight: 'cuts in the budget from one programme to another, freezing in real terms of commitment appropriations, the strategy of the european commission is unacceptable', the rapporteur stressed.
in writing. i supported the lavia report to give a mandate to parliament's budget negotiating team for next year. the european council has just agreed on a growth pact, but we must retain the means to take the measures to implement it, otherwise the approach will be inconsistent. i believe that it is high time that the member states committed themselves to raising the european budget to 1.24% of european gdp, as we have the possibility of doing, which would enable us to finance a real growth and investment pact! but we are still far from that, since we are entering into a tug of war with the council again this year, with the risk of blocking the budgetary procedure. i also supported the greens' amendments on iter - i am against additional funding for this project - and i believe it is time to diversify research funding to focus on something other than nuclear (be it fusion or fission). we are talking about more than a billion euros in additional funding for iter, and that is no small amount!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on budget 2013 - mandate for the trilogue. we in the european parliament believe that the union's budget is a common and effective instrument of investment and solidarity, indispensable to stimulating economic growth, competitiveness and job creation in the 27 member states. we therefore strongly call for a sufficient level of resources for the budget for the coming years, in particular for policies that bring growth and employment. we also stress the idea that the union budget should not be the victim of the failure of economic policies at national level. we need to focus on promoting growth, competitiveness and employment, particularly for smes and young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the budgetary priorities of the european parliament for the preparation of the 2013 budget of the european union. this resolution is part of the logic of the budgetary procedure in which parliament is a party. it is important that parliament should speak with one voice, since the discussion with the council is likely to be difficult. i am satisfied with the priority budgetary objectives that have been agreed, which relate to support for growth, competitiveness and employment.
in writing. while the commission, through the six pack, the two pack and the budget treaty, intends to impose on the states not only the reduction of their budgets but also the way in which they use their taxpayers' money, it is careful not to apply any kind of weight loss cure to itself! for next year, she's demanding a 7% increase in her own spending! it is easy for it: the money it spends comes from the coffers of the member states and from the pockets of the european citizens. the european budget cannot be in deficit: if it were to be, governments would have to pay for the impetuousness of brussels. and this increase is supposed to fund what? the same ineffective or harmful policies: a cap that ruins farmers, crony-like structural funds that are systematically underused and not just because of the crisis, an active immigration policy when there are already 25 million unemployed in the union, a foreign policy of patronage, etc. this europe is not an added value, and increasingly it is a handicap for the member states.
in writing. the mandate is the second stage of the budgetary procedure for the european parliament. the report by my colleague giovanni la via sets out parliament's main priorities and concerns in the run-up to the first budgetary trilogue on 9 july 2012. the report strongly calls for a sufficient level of budgetary resources for the coming years, in particular for policies that have an impact on growth and employment. my colleagues and i are particularly in favour of concentrating resources on smes and young people. this report was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament's plenary session, and i welcome that.
in writing. on 4 july, parliament adopted a position on the 2013 union budget. i have voted to show my willingness to respond in a strong and appropriate way to the crisis facing the continent. i believe that we must put investment in the future at the heart of our concerns to support tomorrow's growth, a growth that some have said is not our concern. the epp had, on 14 march, supported a resolution recalling this imperative, which i fully supported. we are asking for investment in growth-generating sectors: smes, the engine of our economy, must be supported, and a youth policy must also be put in place to train the actors who will revitalise europe tomorrow. the pursuit of growth also means supporting major projects for the future, such as iter. by reintegrating this programme into the community budget, our assembly is giving europe a strategic future energy by ensuring democratic control. i therefore supported this budget, which is very optimistic and reasonable, in order to give our economy a smart and practical boost and prepare for the future. the commission and the council should agree with our position, provided that parliament has the last word on budgetary matters.
in writing. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i was particularly interested in the report on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals. animal welfare is closely linked to public health and animal welfare rules must be applied appropriately throughout the european union, in particular to prevent the spread of animal diseases. these questions concern me all the more as my report on electronic labelling of cattle, which is currently under discussion, raises similar questions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a strategy for the protection and welfare of animals. the priority is to improve the application of existing animal welfare rules in the member states. the directive on the protection of laying hens, adopted in 1999, is not applied uniformly in all member states, for example, and this leads to distortions of competition between european producers. to address these adverse effects, the action plan 2011-2015 aims to better monitor existing legislation and to link animal health and public health more systematically. for example, giving more weight to the european food and veterinary office would make it possible to have a more active watch. in addition, major projects still need to be studied: legislation on the transport of animals, rules on the identification of domestic animals and the prohibition of illegal shelters.
in writing. i voted for the paulsen report. i welcome the establishment of a european legislative framework on animal welfare. first of all, it seems to me important to enforce existing legislation and to ensure that third countries respect european standards. i note the need for a single definition of animal welfare. i support the idea of creating a european network to share good practice and ultimately to establish a european strategy on this subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out recommendations for improving animal welfare in europe. unfortunately, although it does not call for a reduction in transport time, it does set a limit of 8 hours for live animals, as called for in a recent petition on the subject. the text also calls for the inclusion of animal welfare standards in trade agreements signed by the eu. the resolution, however imperfect, is therefore an encouraging first sign which i hope will lead to a real proposal for regulation from the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because a high level of animal welfare plays a vital role in protecting public health and guaranteeing our productivity and competitiveness. whether it's through our food or just contact, the link between animal welfare and public health is clear. good animal husbandry, including in domestic animals, reduces the spread of disease and antimicrobial resistance. the commission must ensure that these issues are taken into account in its trade relations. animal welfare in third countries must be promoted, while maintaining a reasonable position, which does not harm our economy, by the use of reciprocity rules. a framework legislation on animal welfare would increase our competitiveness and improve the quality of animal products. this could make it easier for the eu to require imports from third countries to meet equivalent standards. at the same time, the horizon 2020 research programme must take into account the need for research in the following areas: biodiversity conservation, wildlife trade, development and validation of alternative methods to animal testing, impact of emerging technologies.
in writing. the european parliament adopted mr paulsen's report by a very large majority. this report follows the presentation by the commission of the european strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2012-2015. it emphasises better application of existing rules by member states. it allows the commission to intervene before the deadline for application to ensure that the regulation is being effectively implemented. it also calls for better consideration of the link between animal health, animal welfare and human health. i voted in favour of this report in the plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. i welcome the fact that this report emphasizes better enforcement of existing animal welfare rules and insists on reciprocity for imported products. while the european union has the highest animal welfare standards in the world, they should not penalise european producers in terms of trade policy.
in writing. unfortunately, animal protection rules are not always respected in europe. these infringements, of which animals are the first victims, are contrary to the interests of consumers and distort competition between producers. for all these reasons, i share the conclusions of this report, which encourage legislators at all levels of governance to strengthen the protection of animals by enforcing and respecting existing laws, in particular those concerning their importation from third countries. in voting for this resolution, we called on the member states to engage more inspectors and on the european food and veterinary office to have more power. we can no longer accept that animals suffer needlessly. however, this protection must not be piecemeal or bureaucratic, nor must it jeopardize research, cultural traditions such as hunting, or businesses that already respect the law.
in writing. the protection of stray and domestic animals was the subject of a motion for a resolution by the committee on petitions this week. it is imperative to harmonise the rules for the identification and registration of animals, to establish strategies for the management of stray animals including vaccination and sterilisation programmes, to put in place measures to promote ownership, to prohibit illegal kennels and shelters, to prohibit the killing of stray animals without medical advice, and to introduce information and education programmes in schools on animal welfare.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the establishment of a european legal framework for the protection of domestic and stray animals. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am daily alerted to the concerns of european citizens about animal welfare. i think it is very important to take these complaints into account and to act as quickly as possible. that is why i support the ratification of the european convention for the protection of pet animals and stray animals by the european union and the member states. the european commission is invited to draw up as soon as possible a legal framework including rules for the identification and registration of animals, vaccination and prevention programmes, and then, among other things, the imposition of sanctions for any state which does not comply with the regulations in force.
in writing. member states are facing difficulties in dealing with the dangers to european citizens posed by the wanderings of animals in eastern and southern european countries. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of the european population and to ensure the protection of animals. i voted in favour of this resolution, which was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament.
in writing. this week we discussed the conclusions of the european council. even if the decisions taken are progress, they are in reality only a small time-saver, without any truly innovative solution. firstly, contrary to what françois hollande has been trying to make us believe for months, france will not call into question the treaty which has already been ratified by many european countries, and that is a good thing! mr hollande has finally resorted to a growth pact to complete the treaty. but does the treaty differ in terms from the one signed by his predecessor, nicolas sarkozy? no, not at all! moreover, françois hollande has finally accepted the central part of the budget treaty, the famous golden rule, which nicolas sarkozy wanted. he also crossed the line on eurobonds. as regards the agreements reached in the framework of the global compromise, these are matters which have been under consideration for months in the european institutions. in other words, nothing new! so françois hollande delayed ratification of the treaty and finally accepted what we had proposed at the beginning of the crisis.
in writing. the best is often the enemy of the good, so caution is in order. if, like others, i consider that the latest european council has made it possible to move in the right direction, i would like to point out that it will not allow a kind of 'catch-up' with regard to the citizens and public opinion, which is still marked by the failure to take account of the 'no' vote in the tece referendum. a genuine growth policy must go hand in hand with the austerity measures being implemented throughout europe. the growth pact is a first step, but we need to go further: the states must understand that it is time to raise the eu budget to 1.24% of gdp as we have the possibility to do so. finally, the resolution recalls, and this is a good thing, that an agreement on own resources is essential to any overall agreement on the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. this european summit is above all a summit of hypocrisy and lies. it allows mr hollande to impose the scandalous 'fiscal pact', this unacceptable budgetary prison, by making it appear that he now has a counterpart in the form of a 'growth pact'. but the latter is just a list of measures that are heterogeneous and have been planned for a long time, and the figures are manipulated. we're a long way from the 1% of gdp we promised. the sums to be mobilised are paltry: 120 billion, yes, but over two years. only 40 billion is public funds, the rest consisting of a series of loans or guarantees. the funds will be sprinkled throughout the 27 and not focused on emergencies or priorities. even if we help the states, we should give them their share of the billions of unused regional funds, it would ease their budget! as for the other measures, mr hollande will have to explain what he has agreed to submit to. i will mention only a few: the full implementation of the bolkenstein directive, the relaxation of the labour code and in particular of dismissals, the end of regulated professions, the opening up of public contracts to international (chinese?) competition, and... the 'reactivation of older workers', a very worrying expression. his constituents will appreciate it.
in writing. the conclusions of the june 2012 european council are in the red. they are symbolically moving towards greater solidarity and integration, the only way to cope with this economic crisis which is not ending, which is a positive thing. however, only about 10 billion of the 120 originally promised by the "growth pact" are really new and additional. moreover, the conclusions continue to be guided by the theme of 'growth', which is seen as the only remedy for all our economic ills. this rhetoric is not acceptable to us environmentalists. it is our whole development model that must be questioned and that must take into account the finiteness of resources, something which the summit conclusions do not or do not do. in view of this mixed assessment, i abstained on the vote on this resolution.
in writing. this joint proposal to the main political groups in the european parliament underlines the progress made by the last council, in particular the more flexible use of the fund and the crisis solidarity mechanism and the creation of a €120 billion growth and jobs pact. however, efforts must be continued. the budgetary and financial integration must be deepened and, in this respect, the role of parliament must be strengthened, particularly as regards the voting on the financial perspective and the control of budgetary control mechanisms.
in writing. the european council met on 28 and 29 june. the european parliament resolution adopted at the end of the summit welcomes the concrete measures adopted to deal with the euro crisis. parliament welcomed the idea of a response focusing on both fiscal consolidation and growth. parliament also welcomed the commitment of the european council and the commission to make the union budget an instrument of growth. it is essential that the european parliament be placed on an equal footing, beyond its role as co-legislator, in drawing up a roadmap for a genuine economic and monetary union. i supported this resolution, which was adopted by a majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. the european council meeting in june was nothing more than dust in the eyes of the european citizens. the so-called growth pact and the banking union are far from being progress. the first is essentially a reallocation of funds, while the second is a return to the one-way solidarity between the european institutions and the banks. the same banks that have never been held accountable. the crisis of globalised capitalism is being met by more and more capitalism. social europe and the green economy have been pushed to the edge of the spectrum of possibilities, and this in the greatest opacity and hypocrisy. contrary to what has been presented, this european council is therefore maintaining the same dynamic and is locking itself into a vicious circle of financial market dictates. the resolution tabled and adopted by the epp, liberal, socialist and green groups is sufficient to convince us of this. those who have everything to lose are once again those who live on european territory solely as a result of their work. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. i have approved the draft resolution on banking for all. we in the european parliament ask the commission to make a proposal to that effect. i believe that having a bank account in europe must now be a right. banks must provide these services at cost to the 10% of our citizens who lack them, including the homeless, people with very low incomes, students, people with no credit history and expatriate workers. today, without a debit card, everyday life is very complex. the european union must fight financial exclusion and this starts with access to basic banking services.
in writing. a shocking figure, some 30 million european citizens currently do not have a bank account, the majority of whom are homeless, students abroad and expatriate workers. access to basic banking services must be recognised as a fundamental right of european citizens. anyone legally resident in the eu should be able to open a bank account and carry out simple transactions such as receiving a salary, paying bills and withdrawing money, free of charge or at a reasonable cost. it is shocking that low incomes, professional status or debt levels are still the reasons for refusing to open a bank account. it is imperative that banks provide services for the most vulnerable and no longer focus on the most attractive customers. the same is true for social inclusion: access to a bank account is often a prerequisite for access to employment, health services and housing. despite the european commission's previous recommendations on this matter, too many member states do not comply with them. it must therefore address this financial exclusion and present appropriate measures promptly.
in writing. access to banking services is a major factor in the ability of european consumers to benefit from the single market's range of goods and services and to move or work within it. the fact is alarming: the right of access to basic banking services is still not guaranteed at eu level, to the extent that 7 million citizens are excluded from the conventional banking system. to remedy this situation, the report aims to make available to european citizens the effective provision of essential payment services: opening an account, depositing and withdrawing money, transferring cash from one account to another and receiving bank statements. by promoting greater financial and social inclusion, the initiative aims to bring the single market closer to consumers.
in writing. i am satisfied with the adoption of this report. access to basic banking services is essential as it determines the access of european citizens to employment, health and housing. since basic banking services are essential for integration into society, i am pleased to see the european parliament adopt a text that facilitates access to them. i also welcome the initiative of the econ committee to get a legislative proposal from the commission and not just a recommendation.
in writing. one in ten european citizens currently lives without a bank account, even though the use of a bank account is almost indispensable for basic transactions such as collecting a salary or paying a bill. the homeless, people with very low incomes, students or certain expatriate workers are sometimes excluded from using basic banking services because of too few resources in the eyes of some banks or too heavy administrative formalities. access to basic banking services must be a guaranteed right for all europeans. this is why banks should unconditionally open a basic bank account for any european citizen who so wishes, regardless of his level of resources or his banking history. banks are essential to the financing of the economy, but they also have a duty not to exclude european citizens from life in society.
in writing. in 2012, 7% of the adult population in the union still did not have a bank account, or about 30 million people. to remedy this problem, i supported the adoption of this text, in which the european parliament calls for the recognition of the universal right of european citizens to have a basic bank account. everyone should be able to open an account and carry out banking operations which are simple (such as depositing a salary or withdrawing money), but which have become essential in our daily lives and which contribute to the functioning of our economy!
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on access to banking services to ask the commission to come forward with legislation to enable all european citizens to have access to a bank account. seven per cent of the adult population in the union, or about 30 million people, currently do not have a bank account. it is the poorest who are under this constraint of not having access to basic banking services. access to a bank account is also necessary for social inclusion and to ensure access to employment, health care and housing for all.
in writing. bank accounts are required to collect wages or allowances, pay bills or taxes, purchase goods and services, withdraw cash, or print bank statements. one in ten europeans do not have access to banking services: the homeless, people with very low incomes, students, expatriate workers... for all these individuals, access to basic banking services should be a right! in supporting this resolution, i call on the commission to bring forward legislation by 2013 to end this financial exclusion which i find unacceptable. the text states that institutions offering payment accounts should not refuse to grant such an account because of the applicant's low income, professional status, credit history or level of indebtedness. the text also states that the basic payment account should always be cheaper than any other product offered by an institution and that it should not be possible to make the basic payment account conditional on the purchase of other products or services. i now look forward to the commission's proposal.
in writing. 7% of the union's population (around 30 million people) do not have a bank account. 6.4 million of these people were either denied access or did not dare to apply for an account. banking exclusion goes hand in hand with social exclusion, can aggravate it and make any possibility of reintegration difficult. in addition, beyond the situation of the uncertain, a number of difficulties may arise for eu citizens who wish to bank outside their country of residence. and as the report notes, the fight against money laundering or terrorist financing sometimes has a good backing to refuse account opening. some countries have already passed legislation to ensure access to basic banking services and 100% of households are covered: finland and the netherlands are examples. the report by my colleague from die linke, jürgen klute, is a compromise report which calls on the commission to present a directive guaranteeing access to basic banking services and makes a number of recommendations as to the content of this directive. so i have chosen to vote in favour.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mr göran färm on his extremely productive work on this matter. thanks to this work and to the cooperation with the council under the danish and now the cypriot presidency, we can hope for entry into force this summer. this initiative deserves support for two main reasons. firstly, this innovative financial instrument is based on the intelligent use of resources which are known to be limited: redeployment of existing budget lines on the one hand, and leverage effect on other investments on the other. fiscal stability policies will only bear fruit if they are supported by stimulus measures. the project bonds are specifically targeted at employment-generating areas, namely transport, energy and broadband infrastructures. i also believe that the text from the trilogue on which we are going to vote significantly improves the commission's proposals, by defining the instrument more precisely, by strengthening the monitoring tools, by introducing regulatory changes in case of success without discouraging the markets and by introducing the possibility of reusing interest and other income generated. finally, the possibility of merging the lgtt trust account, the current instrument for guaranteeing loans for transport infrastructure, with that of project bonds, ensures better financial management. in conclusion, mr president, we may be witnessing the advent of what you will allow me to call a 'mixed financial economy' between europe, its institutions, the eib as such and its expertise. this financial mixed economy will aim to create a genuine market for our projects and instruments in the future multiannual financial framework such as the connecting europe facility.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is good that the european union is taking action to equip our continent with infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and digital networks. it would be even better if it resulted in european public ownership of these infrastructures and if their operation were to be carried out by large european public services of transport, energy and digital networks, thus ensuring greater security and greater respect for public money. it is time to put an end to competition which, while allowing a minority to reap just profits, is a source of waste, inefficiency, territorial inequality, corruption and exorbitant prices paid by users who have become customers against their will. do you know that thanks to your dogma of competition, a significant proportion of the trucks that travel in europe do so empty? that more energy is sold than is produced, with the costs to households and businesses? if europe wants to enter the 21st century and not return to the 19th century, we must say 'no' to sterile competition and 'yes' to cooperation and complementarity. the system of financing this necessary infrastructure which you are presenting to us today is worthy of the gas plants which lead to crises. in short, we socialize the risks and privatize the profits to the delight of pension funds and other harmful financial funds. i have an innovative solution to offer you which is in the general interest of the european citizens: direct financing of these infrastructures by the european central bank, under the same conditions as private banks currently refinance themselves with the ecb. such a solution would allow us to loosen somewhat the knot with which the financial markets strangle european democracy.
in writing. project bonds are responding to the investment needs of europe and that is why i welcome the launch of the pilot phase of bond borrowing. the eib guarantee of 230 million will help to increase the mobilization of private capital and thus act as a lever. this instrument is particularly relevant in a context where banks are reluctant to provide financing. the bond issues will meet investment needs in transport, energy and information technology infrastructure. this pilot phase will have to be evaluated in order to compare the relevance of this tool to reality.
i welcome the debate we are continuing today on the new schengen governance in the broad sense. it allows us to reiterate our concern for the preservation of the great community achievement of the free movement of persons. the cases of infringements of the schengen code, which the commission mentioned in passing in its first schengen health bulletin, invite us, commissioner, to ask you to clarify these cases, and you indicated this in your initial statement. we call first on the member states to increase transparency, which must be part of a mechanism that strengthens mutual trust between member states and their ability to apply all the schengen provisions effectively. but we must also be able to count on a courageous european commission which does not hesitate to use its powers as guardian of the treaties to ensure that community law is properly applied, especially when it comes to the fundamental right - i come back to this - of the free movement of our citizens. more than ever, the examples mentioned - whether in germany or the netherlands, but we could also recall earlier cases such as italy and france, on the ventimiglia border - are arguments for more advocacy for the establishment of a european schengen evaluation mechanism, of a community nature and in which parliament would have its full role to play. the new cypriot presidency will have the difficult task of trying to find a positive solution to the conflict between us on this issue. i must admit, mr president, that i did not quite grasp the outcome of our earlier discussions, but i must admit that i misunderstood. i would remind you that the system applied in certain areas was an intergovernmental system. it is no longer suited to the european union as it is being built today, and all the more so if we want to maintain the european peoples' commitment to this project which brings us together. in the absence of a shared assessment of the situation at the borders, it is very likely that the same political logic, tinged with populist tendencies, will continue to apply, which is simply harmful to our european democracy. i would like to conclude by reiterating that only european solidarity and a community approach would enable us to respond better to the challenge posed by the structural fragility of certain frontiers, a fragility which, of course, worries us all.
mr president, i must say that i am rather surprised to see georgia on the agenda today. of course, there are visits by eminent personalities, as has been mentioned. of course, there are elections in october. but it's not the only country where there are important visits and elections. we know very well why we are talking about georgia today. we are talking about georgia today because an oligarch decided to participate in elections - it is his right - and because he flooded the lobbying offices in washington and brussels with dollars and euros, apparently successfully since we put georgia on our agenda, not to talk about the russian occupation, nor about russia's violation of the ceasefire agreements or russian military maneuvers in the month of october, in the midst of the election period, but to talk about the electoral process in georgia. you have mentioned a number of resolutions in which we have spoken out in favour of an independent civil society and a strong and credible opposition. it is not the millions of dollars of an oligarch that make the opposition strong and credible, nor that make civil society independent. let us not give mr saakashvili a blank cheque, of course. but a blank check to this oligarch who is going into politics, it seems to me much more dangerous.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, it is my pleasure to present to you the eu’s position and latest activities on syria on behalf of the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton. the situation in syria continues to gravely concern the european union. violence has increased and the numbers of casualties have reached unimaginable levels. the risk of civil war has become more real and there are already signs of increasing sectarian conflict. human rights abuses continue. any further militarisation of the conflict would have a serious impact not only on the syrian people but on the region as a whole. in response, the european union stepped up its activities on syria with the aim of urgently bringing about an end to the violence and finding a solution to allow for a syrian-led political transition to take place. this week is particularly busy as efforts take place at international level to consolidate, unify and strengthen the international community’s response to the syrian conflict. this is exactly what the high representative/vice-president presented in this chamber during the last plenary session: the need for a road map to support kofi annan, strengthen international pressure and make diplomatic efforts more united and robust, including the call for un security council action and the involvement of russia and china. the high representative/vice-president catherine ashton participated in the meeting of the action group for syria in geneva convened by joint special envoy kofi annan on saturday. as you know, the participants in the meeting, the united nations, the league of arab states, the european union, china, russia, france, the united kingdom, the united states, turkey, iraq and kuwait, agreed on the principles and guidelines for a syrian-led transition which includes the establishment of a transitional government body exercising full executive powers. the transitional governing body could include members of the present government on the basis of mutual agreement. the action group also reiterated its full support to kofi annan in his six-point plan, as well as for the united nations observation mission in syria giving the special envoy’s activities a new unified momentum. furthermore, the group committed to opposing any further militarisation of the conflict. there is now a path for a syrian-led transition and a mandate for kofi annan to take this forward even if implementation is the biggest challenge. these are steps forward and we will have to collectively ensure that they are followed up. the european union is committed to doing everything possible to help this process. further to the action group in geneva, the friends of syria group will meet on friday in paris. the high representative will attend the meeting with an expected number of up to 100 countries. it is our hope that the friends of syria meeting will endorse the outcome of the action group to ensure a unified response by the international community. the challenge is now to implement the agreed principles and guidelines for transition. key issues to be addressed include the appointment of an effective and empowered interlocutor by the syrian government which is also acceptable to the opposition. many components of the opposition have been quick to reject this very notion that, without a partner to negotiate with, a political solution is difficult to achieve. the effective implementation also requires a coherent and representative opposition. yesterday’s opposition meeting in cairo, organised by the league of arab states and with european union participation, was another step in trying to unite the different groups. we must help to bridge the gap between the views of the opposition inside syria and those outside syria. on the initiative of the high representative/vice-president ashton, the european union continues to meet with representatives of different groups. it has most recently supported and financed opposition seminars in brussels from the instrument for stability, organised by syrians for syrians on transition issues. the first seminar, which took place on 24 and 25 june in brussels, gathered a broad range of opposition figures to discuss issues related to the transition process, including supranational and constitutional principles, democratic principles, economic and social issues and, last but not least, minority rights. these are issues which you, the members of the european parliament, have drawn our attention to on several occasions. the message of those present was that syria is for all syrians. inclusiveness and respect for minorities are essential. the second eu funded seminar will take place in cairo in mid-july. these opposition seminars aim to contribute to the political process of ensuring a representative opposition. through this process the european union continues to facilitate syrian-led inclusive dialogue actions. in parallel the european union continues to call for united action by the un security council to add more robust and effective pressure. the syrian regime holds great responsibility for the violence perpetrated. massacres continue while international efforts to solve the crisis are ongoing. this is unacceptable and those responsible for crimes during the current conflict must be held accountable. the european union’s response is not limited to diplomacy and political engagement at all levels. the european union will continue to step up sanctions as long as the repression continues. the sanctions are targeted towards the syrian regime to deprive it of its sources for repression with minimal impact on the civilian population. on 25 june foreign ministers agreed on the 16th round of sanctions since may 2011. we must now continue to reach out to partners to ensure effective implementation and hope to increase international pressure in the friends of syria meeting. whilst bilateral aid is suspended the european union has stepped up assistance to a number of human rights organisations and activists. on 8 june the european union approved a eur 23 million special measure to support both civil society within syria and syrian refugees in the neighbouring countries in areas affected by an influx of syrian refugees. humanitarian access remains a concern and the european union continues to monitor the implementation of the agreement between the syrian government and the united nations closely. to date the european union has allocated over eur 44.6 million to address humanitarian needs inside syria and in neighbouring countries. finally, the european union supports the united nations observation mission with eur 8.2 million. the funds are used to finance 25 armoured vehicles, logistics and support for placing air ambulance capability if requested. further initiatives that facilitate syrian-led and inclusive dialogue that could help lead to a political solution can also be funded. i can assure you that the european union will continue to do its utmost to support the syrian people in their struggle for peace and freedom and to facilitate a peaceful transition process.
for the greens/efa group mr president, my colleague mr schaake has put a very pertinent question to the presidency of the council. i'm sure his representative will be very keen to answer it. the situation on the ground, as described, has reached apocalyptic heights of violence and horror, with an unprecedented level of 800 deaths last week. the human rights watch report, the systematic torture in one of the 27 detention centers and the testimonies are completely unsustainable. at the same time, i believe that we have been witnessing, for a little over a week, new diplomatic initiatives which perhaps foreshadow the elements of change needed to find a solution. i think that the meeting in geneva has nevertheless initiated - even if it is limited, even if it is unsatisfactory - a proposal for a transitional government of national unity, without, of course, assad and the torturers, but taking into account part of his training. this has two advantages. in this situation, just because you feel a solution is possible doesn't mean that the violence will be less on the ground. on the contrary! we may be witnessing a surge in violence from the regime. from this point of view, this proposal is both a means of encouraging the mass desertions of regular army soldiers and a means of welcoming members of the assad regime and the baath party into this transitional solution. in the present situation, i believe this is extremely important. i hope that this prospect, which was encouraged by the meeting of all the components of the syrian opposition, by the arab league this week, by the meetings of the russian foreign minister with the syrian opposition, will mark changes in the situation that will give a glimmer of hope. and this glimmer of hope, i believe, the european union must exploit to the full, and exploit it also in paris at the end of the week, at the meeting of the friends of the syrian people.
mr president, even if each and every one of us may have doubts about the possibility of settling the matter diplomatically or politically, we must of course do everything to ensure that this is the case, and everything to ensure that the geneva agreement can, i hope, be implemented. at the same time, we must support the syrian opposition, do everything to unite, unite and rally, act to respond to the humanitarian crisis - what you are doing - and shed light, all the light, on what is happening in syria, as the un high commissioner rightly wanted and asked for. in view of the terrible report by the ngos - you have all read this report entitled 'the archipelago of torture' - i think we really need to think about how the un security council works. i believe that when it comes to condemning crimes against humanity, there should be no veto or blockage, and that should be done from the first minute.
for the greens/efa group mr president, since the fall of president mubarak in february 2011, egypt has been ruled by the supreme council of the armed forces, which has taken over the power to legislate and draft the constitution. how can we not worry? it was in this context that mohamed morsi of the muslim brotherhood was elected on 24 june. for many egyptian women, the election of mohamed morsi undermines women's rights. it should be recalled that islamist mps had previously proposed to reform a provision that allows women to divorce without the consent of their husbands. they also tried to pass a law forbidding women to file for divorce. women must be listened to and their demands heard. without them, democracy in egypt will not be possible. they are calling for the implementation of the provisions of the egyptian women's rights charter, which was drafted last year by more than a thousand women and endorsed by half a million egyptian citizens, both men and women. this document enshrines fundamental rights such as the right to participate in political and economic life, representation in government and equality before the law. egyptian justice must protect women from all forms of violence. we must support these legitimate demands. will mrs ashton do that? what measures will it consider to help egypt on the path to democracy? how can we europeans respond to the fears of these young people and women who fear that the arrival of the islamists will ... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome the fact that we are having this exchange in this house a few days after the earth summit, which, as has been pointed out, some of us attended. it is time to take stock of the situation, but i believe it is also time to consider the prospects. the bottom line is simple: the results of this summit are disappointing. forty years after the first earth summit, 20 years after the commitments made in rio, while we were waiting for a new impetus, a leap forward, the leaders of the international community took action on the spot. as for the future we want, the promise has not been kept and the commitments have been postponed to 2015. the european union left with the ambition of sharing an action programme and we are returning from rio with a work programme. i would like to thank the european commission today, and in particular commissioner potočnik, and the member states for the determination they have shown in the negotiations and in pursuing the european ambitions for the ecological transition of our economy, which we have set out in this parliament. what's the matter now? now more than ever, i see the responsibility we have and the role the european union can play in promoting a new development model to overcome the crisis. in rio we were not exemplary, we did not show that our ambitions for sustainable development were being implemented and applied in all our european policies. we must now, at european level and at the level of its member states, activate the transition. without further delay, let us commit ourselves to innovative financing, the implementation of the financial transaction tax, the ecological taxation, let us commit ourselves without further delay to our energy transition to end fossil fuels! let us work together to preserve our marine and terrestrial resources! let's move! the european union will gain credibility and international weight. the international community will gain in future prospects. let us now resolutely re-engage with the rio work programme to accelerate change, but also, and above all, reaffirm our ambitions and try to move forward in the next two summits in 2012: for biodiversity in hyderabad and for climate in doha.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts you have made, commissioner, it is quite clear that rio is a failure and that we have lost yet another precious moment in a situation of marked urgency. what a paradox it was that all the heads of state and government present - they were not very many - were still able to recognise the seriousness of the situation and, at the same time, their complete inability to act! perhaps even worse, the lawyers are proposing a principle of non-regression in environmental law, when for thirty or forty years we have been pushing, the same lawyers have been pushing, for progress in environmental law. it is quite clear that we cannot stay in this situation and that we need to re-examine our governance on a global level. although unep sees its powers as expanded, it is not a global environmental organization. we need - and i say this again very solemnly - an international criminal court in the field of the environment to deal with crimes that can be committed and crimes that cannot be tried. you have spoken a lot about the bottom up. it is quite clear that we must have another way of working with civil society so that it, which in many countries is carrying on, little by little, the change we all need, defends - even modestly, sometimes - the general interest, so that civil society can be represented in the negotiations, that it can weigh in, that it can propose, that it can act. it is this governance that we must review and it is this that will make it possible to really set up a green economy, to ensure that global trade is not left to total freedom, regardless of social and environmental rules, and, finally, to enable europe to play its full role again. we are now considered the sick people of globalization. well, we need to be the spearheads of the green economy and the ability to transcend national selfishness.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten days ago we were hoping that rio +20 would be the summit that would destabilise those who profit from the increase in inequality and who deplete resources. in the absence of binding objectives, we are very disappointed. but that should not distract us from our commitments. if we are to make further progress in the negotiations, we must prove that the fight against poverty and for sustainable development is the real objective of european development policy. let us prove this by providing this policy with ambitious financial resources. let us commit ourselves to the urgent introduction of innovative financing mechanisms, such as the financial transaction tax, and to the redirection of a substantial share of the revenue to development aid. let us fight more effectively against tax havens and their appropriation of the tax resources of these countries through the excessive use of them by transnational companies, and in particular the extractive industry. only then will we become credible advocates of sustainable development for all.
mr president, i feel that we have really gone backwards with this summit. you could say that this is not rio+20 but rio-20. the mountain has given birth to a mouse, with a text lacking any decisive commitments, which reveals behind the scenes that we are not masters of the new international balances. with the absence of barack obama, angela merkel, david cameron, vladimir putin, the disappointment was even worse than the boredom. this is a return to the copenhagen climate change fiasco. the green economy, which was a central theme of the conference, has been reduced to its simplest expression. but should we expect anything else, in times of crisis, economic crisis, ecological crisis? the european union has not been convincing. it has once again been marginalized in relation to the bric countries. how can we keep our voice heard in the face of young nations eager for economic growth? how can we set an example for those who do not want to follow him? with the best will in the world, many of our european companies are worried about the method to choose for the green transition to this economy when their imperative is to fill order books and keep jobs that are pending? it is impossible to negotiate such an agreement in an economic context which continues to send us very bad signals. how can we think about the future when the present is uncertain? and yet we must not give up because the clock is ticking and our commissioner was right to say so. the real question today is whether europe can lead in these climate negotiations, because we have the right answers. unfortunately, these negotiations have highlighted the failure of the union's strategy. this summit has shown the paralysis of the process. it is a challenge to get the consensus of so many countries. we must therefore think about reforming the way this system works, and we must think about other ways of negotiating, because it is urgent, to avoid a tragedy for future generations.
mr president, commissioner, the failure of rio+20 is ultimately the failure of our society, which must, in this case, overcome itself, recover, in the face of the economic, social and climate crises. what do we have to do? to continue to pile up international summit after international summit, conference after conference, for nothing or little? or do we continue to see that the balance of power has been reversed in recent years, to the detriment of us european countries, in favour of emerging countries like china or india? what can i do? we have several leads that we think are important. first, to establish a new global governance of the environment, based on ngos, civil society, trade unions. let's create a global environmental movement! and then let's allow the emergence of a true green economy from local sustainable development policies. this is the action we must take and in which we must help the european institutions.
mr president, commissioner, neither mrs damanaki nor mr potočnik are present with us today. i have no comment . in european law, as in international law of the sea, the flag state is responsible for exercising control over the activities of its fishing vessels, whether in the matter of registration, fishing authorization, fishing register and, in particular, catch certificate. it is the flag state's responsibility to provide accurate information on the legality of their catches and to have this information validated by their flag state. the european union legislation on the issue of export licences is clear. the products may only be imported if they are accompanied by a catch certificate attesting to their legality. this certificate shall be issued by the flag state of the fishing vessels which caught the fish concerned, in accordance with its obligation under international law. in short, international law requires the flag state to respect international rules on the conservation and management of fisheries resources. cites has prepared a dangerous text for all fishermen active in the external component of the common fisheries policy. if adopted, this would allow the state which chartered the ship, and not the flag state, to be responsible for the control of the ship's activities. the chartering state could therefore also issue export certificates when it lacks the means to check the legality of the goods being transported. however, most charter states do not have the financial or technical means to control fishing activities. this text could therefore set a dangerous precedent which would lead to a legal vacuum in european union law, where the iuu regulation would no longer make sense. this is based solely on the flag state's responsibilities. giving the right to sign export certificates to states chartering fishing vessels is a breach of the legislation on combating iuu fishing. the european union already imports 70% of the aquaculture and fishery products it consumes, and it should not allow products caught illegally and criminally to enter its territory. this is the risk we run if the cites text is adopted. we must not open our doors to products which do not comply with community rules on health, social and environmental matters.
in writing. a change in the statute of the court of justice of the european union was necessary and i supported it. the aim was to reform certain provisions relating to the functioning of the three courts which make up the court. in particular: - proposals concerning the court of justice: the institution of the office of vice-president and the wider participation of judges in cases referred to the grand chamber; - proposals for the civil service tribunal: appointment of three temporary judges who could replace a judge in the event of long absence.
in writing. the court of justice of the european union has requested a change in its statute. the amendments aim to introduce the office of vice-president and to increase the number of judges from 27 to 39. the procedure for the appointment of the 12 additional judges and the role of the vice-president were defined. parliament voted by a very large majority for this report, which i also supported.
in writing. the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) has been overcrowded for several years. the overcrowding of the union's courts is very damaging both for the citizens of the union, who can no longer have a reasonable time to make a judgment, and for the cjeu itself, which sees the quality of its judgments compromised by the increased workload. proposals had been made to reform the organisation of the court of justice and the general court and to change the composition of the general court in order to improve the productivity of this institution. today we are taking a step forward by adopting our position at first reading on the organization of the courts in luxembourg. the action taken is aimed in particular at abolishing the automatic participation of the presidents of chambers in the composition of the grand chamber, adapting the quorums of the chambers to increase flexibility, creating the function of vice-president to assist the presidents of the court of justice and the general court in their duties and appointing an acting judge in the event of a judge being permanently prevented from taking part in the settlement of cases. i fully endorse the whole of that position.
in writing. the civil service tribunal of the european union is composed of seven judges. when one of them is permanently prevented from performing his duties for medical reasons, for example, the functioning of the court is affected. i therefore approved the possibility of recruiting temporary judges, a recruitment which will of course be very supervised, but which becomes possible with this report.
in writing. i fully support the request of the court that three temporary judges be appointed to replace a judge in the event of a long absence. it should be noted that this vote was partly conditional on clarification of the status of judges, between the members and the court of justice.
in writing. in accordance with article 281 tfeu, the court of justice of the european union has requested an amendment to its statute to appoint 3 temporary judges. these judges could replace a judge in the event of a long absence. the report then clarifies the status of these judges. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by 591 votes in favour by the european parliament at its july plenary session.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft regulation on temporary judges of the civil service tribunal of the european union, which will allow the appointment of 3 temporary judges who can replace a judge in the event of a long absence.
in writing. investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1 500 billion in europe for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector is expected to finance the bulk of these investments, most of which will be highly profitable, the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial in achieving these objectives. so we want to mobilize the private sector! in order to have everything running smoothly by 2014, we want to enter a pilot phase immediately. through the use of an eib "facility", supported by a contribution from the european union, this pilot phase should enable us to: •test the acceptance and reactions of the financial market to this initiative, as the private sector will need time to integrate the new instruments into their investment decisions; •testing the operation and optimisation of project-financing bonds in practice, in order to optimise the initiative.
in writing. i believe that a common policy on the infrastructure of trans-european networks (tens) is necessary for the proper functioning of the common market. as such, the european commission has proposed the creation of a mechanism for interconnection in europe under the next financial framework. the report also proposes the launch of a pilot phase in 2012-13 through the establishment of a new financial instrument to mobilise more private sector funds and project-based bond borrowing. this project is part of the europe 2020 strategy for 'a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe'.
in writing. the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of bond borrowing for transport, telecommunications and energy projects. these 'project bonds', which we have been negotiating for months now, will be financed by redeploying existing budget lines to the tune of €230 million. the commission will invest eur 200 million in transport networks, eur 20 million in information and communication technology networks and eur 10 million in energy networks. let us be clear: 'bond projects' do not open the way to a possible mutualisation of debt. in practice, these bonds are issued by private sector companies which respond to a call for tenders and are guaranteed by the european investment bank (eib) for 20% of the project. by attracting private capital and limiting risks, the eu hopes to raise €4.4 billion in the pilot phase by 2014, which will finance investment in reliable, long-term projects. i welcome this initiative by the european commission, which should stimulate growth in europe without creating additional expenditure. this is a thoughtful and responsible proposal.
in writing. in order to stimulate growth, mr göran färm's report calls for the issuing of loans for project promoters, on a proposal from the commission, with a partial guarantee from the european budget and the eib's capital. by reducing the risk profile of these loans, this european contribution will attract other investors. i voted in favour of this report, which was adopted by a very large majority in the european parliament at its july plenary session.
in writing. i voted in favour of the project finance bonds initiative because they will allow for a smart use of the limited resources that are known, through the redeployment of existing budget lines and the leverage effect on potential investments. moreover, fiscal stability policies will only be effective if they are supported by stimulus measures. the obligations in question are aimed specifically at areas that generate jobs and competitiveness, namely transport and energy infrastructure and broadband. we must now think about the next step, namely the establishment of the mechanism for interconnection in europe. this genuine eu 'infrastructure fund' will be based not only on grants but also on innovative financial instruments such as bonds to finance projects.
in writing. the development of modern and efficient infrastructure is of paramount importance if the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy are to be achieved while reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market. to this end, the commission proposed the creation of a connecting europe facility under the next financial framework, which will accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects. in addition to grants and equity instruments, the connecting europe facility includes a new financial instrument to mobilise more private sector funds, as well as project-financing bond loans. however, the initial report of the committee on budgets, as well as the subsequent negotiations with the council, concentrated on a limited number of issues, including, for example, the definition of project obligations and the evaluation of the mechanism. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. since 2008, developed economies have been plunged into an unprecedented economic crisis. the recession we are experiencing in europe is the consequence of the disastrous state of our public finances. we have therefore embarked on deep reforms to put in place sound and rigorous fiscal policies. however, in order to allow a return to sustainable growth, it is imperative that this fiscal consolidation effort be combined with investment policies in projects that promote the competitiveness of our businesses and economies. this was the subject of the 'grand emprunt' in france, it is still the subject of the 'project bonds' and the report voted on today. the €230 million, redeployed from the current budget, will be used to guarantee private bond issues to invest in projects that promote growth and jobs, such as transport, energy and information technology. this report, which has been under negotiation for almost a year, owes nothing to the election of françois hollande and his empty and misleading incantations about growth. the political recovery of the socialists must not come at the expense of the credibility of the long-term work of the european institutions.
in writing. i welcomed the 1% surplus in the 2011 budget of the european union, i.e. eur 1.49 billion. in other words, 99% of this budget was implemented last year. i have approved this third draft amendment, especially since, under the rules applicable to the union budget, this amount of eur 1.49 billion will make it possible to reduce the member states' contributions to next year's budget by the same amount.
in writing. the report by mrs francesca balzani notes a budgetary surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2011 budget. more than €338 million of appropriations and payments remain on budget lines. they have not been and cannot be used. the report then considers that this amount should legitimately be paid to the union budget. the european parliament has adopted this report by a very large majority, and i welcome that.
in writing. in voting in favour of this report, i wanted to stress that direct negotiations between israelis and palestinians for a two-state solution must resume without delay and in accordance with the timetable recommended by the quartet, so that an end can be put to an unacceptable status quo . it also seemed important to me to point out that all settlements remain illegal under international law and that construction must stop and dismantling must begin. as regards the gaza strip, it is clear that israel must implement an effective control mechanism to prevent weapons from being smuggled into the gaza strip.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's policy towards the west bank and east jerusalem. parliament called on israel to stop the expansion of settlements in palestinian territories. i join in denouncing the illegality of israeli settlements under international law. i also believe that the expansion of settlements is detrimental to the resumption of dialogue between israel and the palestinian authority.
in writing. it is in the fundamental interest of the union and the region as a whole that the conflict in the middle east should end, which cannot be achieved without a comprehensive peace agreement based on un security council resolutions. the union, as the main donor to the palestinian authority and one of israel's major economic partners, has the means to encourage both sides to seek a solution. we must therefore invite both sides to cooperate. the european union must therefore decide to act. at the same time, it must guarantee israel's security and work to end the blockade. it must finally exist as a major actor speaking with one voice and putting all its means of budgetary, trade, economic and development policy at the service of a single objective: the eventual coexistence of two states.
in writing. the resolution on the european union's policy towards the west bank and east jerusalem reaffirms its full support for the two-state solution, namely jerusalem as the capital of both entities, and an independent, democratic and viable state of palestine. in this connection, parliament called for the immediate resumption of direct negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians. parliament also strongly condemned any acts of extremism, violence or harassment and called on the israeli authorities and government to bring the perpetrators to justice.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the union's policy towards the occupied palestinian territories. the text gives a comprehensive description of the reality on the ground and openly denounces the rapid expansion of israeli settlements, the extremism of settlers, the evictions and demolitions of palestinian homes. i welcome the fact that our assembly has unequivocally called on the israeli authorities to put an end to the expansion of settlements and has reiterated once again the official position of the european union: europe will not recognize any unilateral changes to the borders of the future palestinian state. i regret, however, that this resolution lacks ambition. parliament does not openly acknowledge that the existing control mechanism - the 2005 technical agreement concluded by the commission with the israeli authorities - has never been effectively implemented and that products from the israeli settlements continue to be imported onto the european market with the label 'made in israel'. instead of calling on the european commission to create a new legally binding control mechanism, our assembly is simply asking for the implementation of existing union legislation.
in writing. in this resolution, which i voted for, we call on the israelis and the palestinians to relaunch the peace process. like many other members of the european parliament, i am convinced that only peaceful means will bring about a just and lasting solution. we are all agreed that only a peaceful situation will allow economic activity in this region to be revived. from a strategic and economic point of view, the union itself will find its interests in a situation of peace in which economic activity develops. to this end, we call on israel to respect its obligations under international humanitarian law by ceasing all illegal construction and expansion of settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. moreover, since the israelis still exercise civil and military control over large parts of the palestinian territories, we call on israel to ensure a fair distribution of water to meet the needs of the palestinians in these areas as well as to improve access to social services such as education and public health services.
in writing. − i deeply regret that, although i and my political group, the epp, voted against, the resolution was nevertheless adopted by a very slim majority.
in writing. this resolution on the european union's policy towards the west bank and east jerusalem reaffirms the european union's commitment to the peace process between israel and palestine. i welcome this, although i regret that the epp has voted an amendment which stresses the responsibility of hamas, which therefore throws the resolution out of balance and once again gives israel an excuse to maintain the status quo ante. the resolution also marks a major step forward, for it condemns for the first time israeli settlement activity, stresses israel's responsibility for blocking the peace process which is an obstacle to the two-state solution and denounces its systematic human rights abuses. in a way unprecedented, it puts israel in the face of its responsibilities. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which reinforces the european union's commitment to respecting international law in the context of the israeli-palestinian conflict. as a member of the quartet for peace, the eu must have a clear position. let us hope that this position of the european parliament will help to achieve this.
in writing. the other political groups rejected the epp resolution on the west bank and east jerusalem, which was balanced. my position, and that of my political group, is to achieve at last a solution of two free and independent states living side by side within the 1967 borders. however, the resolution adopted by the various political groups is not, in my view, conducive to peace in the region. i am very sorry to say that the agreement is deeply unbalanced and obscures the political message of our house. we cannot hope for a solution to this crisis which is paralysing the region unless both sides are put on an equal footing. from the outset, i have fought to ensure that the ideas of the reasonable arrangements are taken into account. these efforts have borne fruit, particularly in terms of support for the economic and social development of the occupied territories and the need to re-establish a constructive dialogue between the two sides, avoiding any provocation. i am convinced, however, that we must put an end to declarations of intent and move towards solutions that will restore peace and hope to the region.
author. - mr president, the plight of the lgbt community in africa is a growing concern. in several countries in sub-saharan africa, homosexuality is still punishable by death. twenty-seven countries have criminal laws against it, and 38 countries have laws against it when it comes to women. these issues are being exploited for political or religious purposes. homosexuality is denounced as a western evil, while homophobia has been imported from the west by religious people. several countries are strengthening their repressive laws in this area and even where anti-discrimination laws exist, they are poorly enforced or not enforced at all. women are even more victims of this discrimination than men, doubly victims, as women and as lesbians. the accusation of homosexuality is even used to silence them when they dare to claim their rights to difference, autonomy and, more generally, equality, not to mention the so-called "corrective" rapes. only a few african leaders, like monsignor desmond tutu or joyce banda, the new president of malawi, dare to go against the grain. the situation of lgbt people is made more difficult by the fact that they have no neighbouring country to flee to, since discrimination and persecution are widespread in almost the entire continent. the assessment of the situation in south africa, long considered a kind of eldorado, is worrying. the european union cannot remain silent under any circumstances, nor can it be satisfied with words. more than ever, it must support networks in africa that campaign against such discrimination and make these issues a key point of political dialogue with african states. the european union must also open its doors wide to those who seek asylum because they are victims of discrimination in this area.
mr president, the issue of lgbt rights in africa is regularly on the agenda of this parliament, and for good reason. two-thirds of african countries have repressive laws on this issue and south africa - it has already been mentioned - is currently in the process of backtracking on this issue. i would like to talk to you today about a documentary made in uganda by two women about the situation of lgbt people. it was during the filming in 2010 that the murder of david kato, an iconic figure in the lgbt struggle in africa, took place. the documentary has now taken on a new dimension, and the message of tolerance and hope it carries must be disseminated as widely as possible. i would therefore like to invite you to see this film, call me kuchu, and to encourage its distribution in all the member states to make the fate of the kuchu known and not to let silence make them disappear. i'll give you this quote from david kato: "they keep saying we don't exist. yet here we are".
author. - mr president, the right of every woman to have her own body is a fundamental right. the use of this right for political purposes, even political purposes, is not worthy of those who claim to defend the universality of human rights as recognized by the universal declaration of human rights and the international convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. some, more than others, on these benches are trying in every way to call this right into question. they are fighting a rearguard battle and today they are seeking to use an emergency session for human rights. it's pathetic. i know. feng jianmei was subjected to forced abortion, as were other women in china, but also elsewhere in the world. this heinous act, which is against chinese law, must be condemned, as must all practices which deny women the freedom to decide whether or not to have a child. the internet took over the drama and opened a wide debate in china. there's an ongoing investigation. china is a country of over 1.3 billion people. it is going to face, because of its one-child policy, an aging population on a scale the world has never seen. the chinese authorities now seem ready to review this policy. let us encourage them to do so through political dialogue. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the author replied "blue card". - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the right to life of the foetus is an old riddle of all those who oppose abortion. i'm all for women's right to control their own bodies. i'm holding him. stop this phony debate. please behave in a dignified manner during emergency human rights sessions. these are serious problems which do not deserve to be exploited for political purposes. this is about the lives of women who are dying in china because of laws that are not enforced. let's respect them! when the law defends women, let us respect it, but do not try to introduce into this debate another debate that has nothing to do with the subject. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the author replied "blue card". - you are very clear, my dear colleague. you want the right to life of the fetus and you are against abortion! i'm for women's right to control their own bodies. women have the right to make decisions and men do not have the right to tell them what to do with their bodies.
mr president, we spend a lot of time preparing for these emergencies in meetings that seek to reach consensus across the political spectrum. i find it rather regrettable that certain groups are constituting occasional majorities and are tabled amendments which deny the joint resolutions - and therefore the commitments made by those who work with us in these joint meetings - and which demolish the resolutions we have worked out together. i think that is quite dramatic and quite damaging to the work that we are all accustomed to doing together in this house, and particularly to the preparation of these tuesday afternoon meetings, where there are not so many of us present.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this text is important because its two objectives are, firstly, the progressive and harmonious development of the electronic identification of bovine animals, with a review clause in five years for a possible transition to mandatory electronic identification, and, secondly, the simplification of administrative procedures with regard to the addition of optional information on the labels of meat packages. i am bringing this to the house today to correct inconsistencies which have arisen in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety because of the commission's departments. after consulting a number of experts in the european parliament, i therefore propose today to adopt three amendments whose sole purpose is to correct the inconsistencies and to clarify the text. my amendments nos 45 and 47 are therefore merely technical corrections. amendment no 46 proposes that the simplification of the optional labelling procedure should only come into force on 1 january 2014. i would remind you that these optional labels must be objective, verifiable by the competent authorities and understandable to consumers. to avoid any unfounded fear, i also clarified that the competent authority must verify the veracity of the optional particulars and ensure that the penalties referred to in article 22 (4a) are applied. we are talking here about optional statements and not mandatory statements on the origin of the meat. we are therefore talking about commercial information used by operators and the rules for which should be simplified. in short, we all agree on the need to move towards electronic identification of cattle. we are not in favour of forcing the agricultural sector to implement this electronic identification in the near future. i am a legislator and i believe that we are responsible today for the laws we pass that have an economic impact. the meat sector in europe and the beef sector in particular are suffering today and we cannot, as legislators, force them to spend even more. this is not a public health issue. the idea is to introduce electronic identification for better traceability of cattle, which the sector will adopt over time. we shall see in five years' time whether the technology is indeed safe and whether the sectors are ready. maybe the economy will be better. what is the second part, namely the labelling of cattle? the point is not to call into question the optional labelling: we are not removing it, to be clear. we are trying to simplify the system, to simplify the procedure. i will explain very simply: the labelling of meat is carried out in the same way for all meat. for the beef sector, for beef, mad cow disease has made the procedure more complex. let us keep the system optional, but let us simplify it because we are responsible for the administrative burden that characterizes our procedures in europe. we must do everything we can to make it easier for our citizens to understand.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the debate was very interesting and i have listened very carefully to the different opinions that were expressed in this house. the commission considers that its proposal would be beneficial for animal health, public health and food safety, and that it would reduce the administrative burden in bovine farming and the related meat sector. let me remind you that it was this parliament that adopted a resolution calling on the commission to reduce administrative burdens, and it was endorsed by this entire house. concerning the specific problems, there is no need to maintain a specific authorisation procedure for voluntary beef labelling as horizontal provisions on labelling of meat would apply. it is also important to note that voluntary beef labelling contains information related to quality and not necessarily to health. health and traceability are ensured by mandatory beef labelling and not by voluntary beef labelling. that is why it would be very important that parliament gives its agreement, so that it can start with the necessary negotiations, and that this will result in the development of electronic identification through use in practice by those who want to take it up. of course, this will also reduce the vulnerability of the systems and their cost for smaller farmers.
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs who have worked on this project in a constructive spirit. i would like to tell you how much public health, the health of our citizens, of european citizens, is of paramount importance to me. this is not at all a question of questioning that point. there is a cattle identification system. it's not electronic, but it's real. it allows for very high quality traceability. it is not a question of questioning that at all. it is just a matter of saying, as mr buffon, mrs reimers and mrs girling have said, that the technology for electronic identification of sheep does not seem to be entirely reliable. so let us wait until we have assurance that the electronic identification system for sheep is reliable before we decide to make it mandatory. i have no difficulty accepting, as part of my compromise, that we are considering re-examining the matter in five years' time to see whether the technology has advanced and whether it can guarantee the good quality of electronic identification. this is also a cyclical problem. i do not think i am putting the health of european citizens in question by saying: 'we must give our agricultural sector, our cattle sector, time to naturally adopt this new technology.' for farmers, it represents a cost: one electronic chip costs one euro per animal in a herd. but beyond that, there is the whole computer reading system and so on, which is very expensive and i remind you that our farmers are suffering from an unfavourable economic situation and a lack of competitiveness. secondly, i would like to say to mrs bizzotto, for example, that i do not remove and do not wish to remove the optional labelling, not at all. as the commissioner has very well said, it is not a question of abolishing optional labelling, but of simplifying the system and the procedure. all aspects of the public health of our citizens are indicated in the mandatory labelling. it is not at all a question of calling into question all this information on labelling. in conclusion, in reply to one of my colleagues, i confirm that no, there will be no legal vacuum in relation to labelling. we will have to ensure that regulation 1169/2011 on consumer information is respected - that is the horizontal legislation you mentioned, madam commissioner - and that it applies to all types of meat, that is to say that beef will be treated in the same way as all other types of meat. in fact, all my compromise amendments tabled in the committee on energy, research and technology have been adopted. i therefore invite the members, my colleagues, to follow my position for tomorrow's vote, and i thank them very much for that. i would just like to make it clear that we are still aiming for a first reading agreement. this means that, in accordance with rule 57 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, i shall ask for the final vote on the resolution to be postponed to tomorrow. i propose that we then go directly to the trilogue and then return to the plenary to put the result of the first reading negotiations to the vote of parliament.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, during these nine months of work, thanks to the trust and invaluable support of all the actors - and i insist, including european parliamentarians, who have never given up the fight for justice and truth - we have been able to measure the scale of the elements that are at fault against europe and its states in the implementation of the secret cia programme. all these actors are formal and all the elements are consistent the research of the council of europe, the special rapporteurs of the united nations, the red cross, national and international rights organizations, investigative journalists, the testimony of victims, their lawyers and that of cia agents : member states have to answer for active or passive complicity in the crimes of torture, secret detention and enforced disappearances. for nine months i have been able to see the obvious limitations of the investigative measures taken by the member states and their obstinacy in concealing the truth: lack of political will, primacy of national interests, limited scope for investigations, abuse of state secrecy, lack of transparency, limitation of the rights of victims and their lawyers. the imagination of the national authorities is boundless. by putting this report to the vote, parliament intends to mark a decisive step towards putting an end to the denial of reality, and therefore of justice, which has characterised the strategy of the member states and the union for the past eleven years. in its recommendations to the states, the council and the commission, the report expresses a simple and clear desire: everything must be done to ensure that rigorous, independent and transparent investigations, capable of determining responsibility, of bringing justice to the victims, are carried out. the european union and its member states owe this first of all to the victims, but they also owe it to the european citizens, who have the right to demand that our institutions, and their institutions, respect the democratic values and the rule of law on which they are based. to be effective, we had to be concrete and precise, up to date with the case, in order to identify the best levers to help justice move forward. we have therefore chosen to focus on the question of secret prisons in europe. thanks to the excellent cooperation of eurocontrol, which i thank, and to the visits and meetings of the libe committee (rapporteur, fictitious rapporteurs), the report is now able to adopt the relevant recommendations, in particular for poland, lithuania and romania. these three countries are now before the european court of human rights for allegations of torture, secret detention and lack of effective investigation. the rapporteur is more convinced than ever that only a coordinated european approach to supporting states can break the law of silence. the council will first of all have to take up the matter formally, put it on the agenda, then accept responsibility and finally apologize. the commission, while acknowledging the facts, has still not been able to mobilise all its resources and instruments in the field of justice and human rights to bring the states to respect their fundamental obligations. it must take initiatives to guarantee the principle of mutual assistance and solidarity. mrs reding, the report gives us an appointment in the european parliament, with you, the council, the victims and all those who seek the truth, in one year's time. last week, murat kurnaz, a turkish citizen living in germany who has been detained for five years without trial in guantanamo, came to the european parliament again to testify to his still very topical ordeal and to demand justice for the victims. mrs reding, if mr kurnaz has the strength to come back in a year's time, can we tell him that facts have been established, that responsibility has been acknowledged and that we can finally apologise to him on behalf of the union?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, allow me, also on my own behalf, to thank mrs flautre for her commitment and courage in taking up this very delicate matter, but also a matter of our values. the commission has constantly reiterated that the practices which are referred to as renditions constitute a serious violation of several fundamental rights: unlawful arrest, arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment. the fight against terrorism cannot justify such unacceptable practices. the full respect of human rights is not negotiable. the commission has always stressed that it is up to the member states concerned not only to initiate but also to continue in-depth, independent and impartial investigations to establish the truth. this is a positive obligation arising from the european convention on human rights in order to establish responsibilities and enable the victims to obtain compensation for such damage. that is also why you have quoted the court, which is putting these questions on the table. since 2005, when the allegations were first raised, the commission has been in contact with those member states that were said to have hosted secret detention sites. as regards aviation policy, the commission drew the necessary conclusions in the context of its communication on civil and business aviation of january 2008, and new rules on the procedures applicable to flight plans for the single european sky entered into force on 1 january 2009. they provide an additional means of monitoring the actual movement of aircraft, and i have heard with great interest that the contacts with the institution on this subject are very positive. the report also refers to the necessity of reinforcing the human rights compliance of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in this regard, the commission is determined to ensure that member states do so when they apply the eu instruments on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and that member states comply with the charter of fundamental rights when they implement those instruments. as i have often said before this parliament, it is when european law is applied that the charter automatically applies, so in these cases the charter does apply. this concerns not only the internal aspects of judicial cooperation but also its external aspects. in this respect, the commission underlines the importance of the entry into force on 1 february 2010 of the two eu-us extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements. both clarify and unify the legal framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the usa, and they clearly refer to the need to fully respect fundamental rights. as regards the national and institutional shortcomings highlighted by the report, let me recall that the current treaties do not empower the european union to establish a general mechanism addressing human rights violations. however, i can assure you that the commission is vigilant in ensuring that the charter applies within the scope of eu law, as i explained on the question of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. as regards the supervision of intelligence and security services, you are well aware that this is a very sensitive area which comes under the responsibility of the member states. the commission has repeatedly recalled that cooperation between intelligence services must not in any way run counter to or override the relevant eu instruments in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. no cooperation between intelligence services can undermine the full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. i think parliament agrees with me that the only way to fight effectively against terrorism is to apply our basic rules on which the european union has built its very being. the commission is ready to cooperate actively with parliament to ensure that what happened in the framework of the so-called cia rendition programme will never happen again.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every day in this parliament we are striving to move the european union forward towards an area of freedom, security and justice that is ever more efficient, closer to and at the service of the european citizens. the european union is an area in which the rule of law must prevail and human rights must be protected, defended and respected. these are the values which drive my commitment and to which my group, the epp, is politically and firmly committed. mr president, as we commemorate tomorrow the 11th anniversary of the attack on the world trade center, it is more necessary than ever to remember that europe is still under the threat of terrorist groups. this tragic date reminds us that we must not slacken our efforts to ensure the security of the 500 million citizens of europe. i believe that freedom and security must be the two pillars on which our counter-terrorism policy must be based. in this connection, i would like to point out that effective counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives. mr president, secret detentions without any charges or trials are contrary to our values and must in future be simply impossible to implement on european territory. no one may be denied access to justice or a fair trial, and these fair trials must be guaranteed to all citizens.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are honoured that this report is being considered today by the european parliament. as the press and ngos have repeatedly pointed out, the secret operations carried out by the cia in the aftermath of the september 11 attacks involved some 60 countries around the world, including at least 10 eu countries. abductions, illegal detentions, disappearances, torture have accompanied the exfiltrations of so-called suspects, including to guantanamo, still not closed. the violation of human rights has reached an unprecedented level. the member states concerned have done everything and are still doing everything, for some of them, to prevent the sad truth from emerging. so i would like to say a big thank you to our rapporteurs, and in particular to mrs flautre, for continuing this fabulous work on our behalf despite the pressure from some member states and their representatives here. i won't name names, but i'll let you know who you are. i will just say that we can never accept that we change our perspective depending on whether we feel close to a government or not. violations of human rights are always intolerable, especially when they are committed by member states of the union who want to teach lessons in this field to the whole world. there is no political realism in this area. no state, whether the united states or a member state of the union, can escape its responsibilities, including when it is fighting terrorism. yes, the credibility of the union is at stake. yes, we are collectively responsible to the citizens of the union. then move! let us move forward, and indeed the union must begin by sweeping up its own doorstep. the sooner the better.
mr president, like my colleagues, i would like to congratulate our colleagues, hélène flautre and sarah ludford, on the excellent work that has been done on this report and on the efforts that have been made to hold all the authorities to account in a case with very nebulous outlines. we are faced in several countries with a situation of human rights violations which have occurred on european soil and which have raised more questions than they have answered. the fight against terrorism cannot be justified in any way, otherwise it would lose all legitimacy. in this connection, i would like to stress in particular the tendency to abuse the notion of state secret or national security in this case. they are all obstacles to parliamentary and judicial control. the transparency which the member states and the european institutions must demonstrate is, however, an essential condition for ensuring the full legitimacy and credibility of public action in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, with due respect for fundamental rights and human dignity. however, even if certain countries have been singled out, there is a collective responsibility of the european union, and we expect the council to take a clear position on the facts, rather than merely to make allegations of human rights violations, which can no longer be ignored. the commission, for its part, must also assess the facts in the light of the treaties and do everything possible to help bring this matter to light. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the enormous number of citizens who have come together to support this report, and who are eagerly awaiting its vote so that things can finally move forward. i hope that he will receive strong support from our assembly tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, from the outset the position the commission has taken on this issue has been: first, that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full respect of human rights; second, that the truth, whatever it is, must be established; and, third, that steps must be taken to prevent any future repetition of the facts in question. the rapporteur knows, because she got all these letters, that the first letters of the commission were issued in 2006 by my colleague franco frattini, then by my colleague jacques barrot, then by ms malmström and myself. we will continue to insist, along with the member states, that the whole truth will be revealed. i will also meet stavros lambrinidis, the human rights special representative, in order to see how we can join forces. concerning the united states, the eu holds a regular dialogue with the us on human rights and counter-terrorism issues, and we have a dialogue with the us state department legal adviser on all aspects of international law. in line with the council guidelines on torture, the eu regularly raises issues concerning disappearances, secret detention and torture in its human rights dialogue with all relevant third countries. i would like to tell this house that on the issue of the ratification of the un convention for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance, the eu member states have submitted a joint pledge to the 31st icrc conference to ratify this convention by 2015 and, of course, we will follow this very closely. there has been one question raised in this house: will the same occur again? i would like to answer very clearly: ‘no’ – because we speak up, because this house does not stop bringing pressure to bear, and because europe is about equilibrium between the safety of our society on the one hand and the rights of the individual on the other. because europe is all about the rule of law, let us do everything to shed light on all that has happened in the past, so that the past does not repeat itself.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i thank all those who have taken part in this debate for their support for this long-term work, which, as i said in the introduction, will be completed in one year's time. i believe that within a year a great deal can be done in the member states. of course, we are not magistrates and we are not required to establish the evidence. we simply know, as in romania, that an inquiry has been carried out in the senate. you called him back, it's mentioned. i am also aware of many allegations, i know that eurocontrol has discovered new flights linking romania to lithuania. a dossier, and this is mentioned in the complaint which was lodged against romania at the european court of human rights, was drawn up by the commissioner for human rights, mr hammarberg, and handed over to the authorities. not all of these elements are part of the public findings of the investigation. i do not think it is a question of blaming one country or another, because colleagues have made a great deal of emphasis - and i hope this is a strong point in this report - on our collective responsibility. what's going on? it happens that every country has a piece of the truth. it is therefore necessary for each country to conduct its investigations as effectively as possible in order to be able to expose this system, because it is a system. we are not here to stigmatize any particular country. it is clear and obvious - no one can deny it - that in romania a new investigation, a judicial investigation, must be opened, because the elements - which are not evidence; we are not magistrates - are nevertheless sufficiently important to justify the reopening of an investigation. that's all the report says. the report calls on the country to open an inquiry and asks the european commission to make it clear that each country has a piece of the truth and that the european commission in particular has the means, the power, the duty and the obligation to ensure that this piece of the truth is brought to the attention of other countries so that all european citizens can be informed. there's a lot you can do. the rule is recalled; i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to express his concern about the situation in the country. but in the case of gross and unexplained mass violations, we must find ways of holding those violations accountable. for example, on the case we're interested in, you can bring prosecutors together, you can pool, help pool information. you can translate all the useful documents. you can compile the information and make it available to the states to help them do these investigations. the letters you are going to send again to each of the states - and i welcome this - must be supplemented by all the new elements that have come to light, in particular by reprieve's analysis of eurocontrol data. that is what we are expecting, that is a lot of work in the next year for a meeting which i hope with all my heart will be conclusive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of the amazon are facing illegal mining, which is causing ecological and social damage to indigenous territories with dramatic consequences. the ngo survival was reporting at the end of august on the massacre of several dozen yanomami indians by gold miners in venezuelan territory. now the venezuelan government believes there is no evidence. since then, voices, including the inter-american commission on human rights, have been raised to denounce the lack of will on the part of the local authorities in conducting the investigation and to call for a thorough investigation. i hope that the european union will expressly call on the venezuelan government to shed light on this tragedy. but we, who are directly concerned, through our overseas territories, are sending a strong signal to call for the full recognition of the rights of indigenous peoples. let us put an end to the illegal exploitation of mineral and forest resources today.
mr president, last thursday a boat from turkey ran aground and 61 people drowned, including 31 children. they were mostly refugees from syria. the following night, a shipwreck near lampedusa claimed dozens of tunisian victims. each new shipwreck adds to the gruesome toll of thousands already recorded in the mediterranean. we are obliged to question the responsibility of the european union and its obligations in the matter of rescue at sea. these people are fleeing war and poverty, but they are also facing increasingly perilous journeys linked to the security obsession that characterizes our migration policy. i ask the commission to propose guidelines, as the recent court of justice ruling required for rescue at sea, and that frontex, which has a new human rights strategy, actually implement it for the safety of migrants. this is a humanitarian emergency.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the issue of the roma minority, which is at the heart of current affairs in france and in europe. the european union has invested heavily in programmes to integrate the roma population, and it is to its credit. over €17 billion will be allocated over the period 2007-13 via the esf, the erdf and, to a lesser extent, the eafrd. however, there is a lot of evidence that these funds have been under-used. in the city where i am elected, marseille, 1,500 roma live in inhuman and revolting conditions, which creates tensions. the expulsion of roma does not solve their situation and does not address the real issue of their integration. we have to act. commissioner, you say that the integration of the roma, who are europeans, is as much the responsibility of the host country as of the country of origin. you're right! but then we must strengthen the control over the use of european subsidies and ensure that the commission reassesses, if necessary, the national strategies adopted. we should also entrust the management of the structural funds granted today to local elected representatives, who will be keen to solve the problem because they are as close to the ground as possible. parliament will then have to ensure that the use of these funds is regularly assessed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but also commissioner dalli, on the responsiveness he has shown in the mediator case. this reactivity has led to the development of resistance tests on the legislation we have just passed on pharmacovigilance. and these stress tests could have been pulled from the mediator case. but we have found that our legislation has its weaknesses. today we are addressing the various weaknesses we have identified, and in this way we are strengthening transparency, communication in relation to the safety of medicines. however, i think there is still a weak point. i regret that this new legislation does not address the central issue of non-prescription medicines, which in reality represents 15 to 20% of all prescriptions, or even more in some areas (such as paediatric, psychiatric or oncological medicine). the doctor may prescribe non-prescription medicines when other therapeutic options for a given disease are limited or non-existent. this prescription may therefore be useful, but it is not without danger because it is made without any validation by the health authorities. in particular, it gives rise to very few reports of adverse reactions by health professionals, who fear that this information will help establish their responsibility in the field of pharmacovigilance. it is a pity that my proposal, made with my colleague frédérique ries, to mandate the european medicines agency to develop, in collaboration with the competent national authorities, guidelines on this point, was not accepted in the final compromise. a more rigorous regulation of such prescriptions would help to maintain a balance between the need to avoid the misuse of medicines and the need to fill therapeutic gaps to meet specific medical needs. i would like to conclude by saying that the mediator has been used often, in one case out of five, outside the amm. i think it is really important to be vigilant in this respect and i am waiting for commissioner dalli's answer.
in writing. the amendments to the legislation on pharmacovigilance introduce the principle of automatic evaluation of a medicinal product at european level if it is withdrawn from the market in a member state. they also extend the list of medicinal products subject to additional surveillance. however, the commission has been satisfied with the bare minimum after the mediator scandal. it should be remembered that its initial proposals on the texts voted in 2010 were simply unacceptable. we had to fight to remove measures which were very favourable to laboratories, in particular those which made it easier to market medicines which had not been sufficiently tested without justifying this in terms of therapeutic benefit/risk. unfortunately, these minor amendments do not incorporate the fundamental measures we have called for: financial, hierarchical and intellectual independence of pharmacovigilance activities from industry and drug agencies, and implementation of the requirement of demonstration of therapeutic progress for obtaining a marketing authorization. nevertheless, linda mcavan's reports are still a step forward, as long as a truly ambitious text is proposed as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after months of work, as i said, parliament, the council and the european commission have reached a compromise on the amendment of the directive on the sulphur content of marine fuels, as we know. the text which has been agreed by all three institutions is the result of a long negotiation process in which we took a large part with a small number of colleagues. not all our expectations were met, but i am particularly pleased that our commitment has borne fruit. the directive as amended by parliament this week will allow member states to request the revision of the marpol convention within the international maritime organisation in order to allow for a delay in the application of the new sulphur permitted levels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. on this point, i believe that my colleague, mr satu hassi, has made a very good link between environmental and economic requirements. we must never forget that the future will be built by ending the conflict between ecology and economics. the european union, which is often criticised, is proving that it can act as a real lever on this issue, and our governments - and i should say 'but' our governments - now have the full responsibility for making this work a reality.
in writing. the text is ambitious and realistic. the proposed regulatory framework is an important step towards achieving the objectives set out in the energy-climate package, while stimulating green growth and jobs. by adding the european sectoral energy efficiency measures and the national measures taken by the member states, the european union should therefore be able to achieve its indicative energy efficiency target of 20% by 2020. without reducing our production or economic activity, it is essential to combat waste, control energy use and stimulate innovation. at a time when the cost of energy is on everyone's mind, it is important to remember that the best energy is the energy we do not consume. finally, i am particularly pleased with the provisions of the directive to promote efficiency in heating and cooling. i regret, however, that the final compromise does not include my amendment to create a category of cogeneration units between 1 and 20 mw in remote, disadvantaged and power-scarce areas, particularly where the resource is available nearby. this would have helped to stimulate decentralised energy production in rural areas.
commissioner, in order to create competition, which i am in principle in favour of, european legislation has imposed decoupling between network operators and energy suppliers. my question is this: have you already made a serious, precise and quantified assessment of the supposed benefits to consumers? i'm talking in terms of price and also in terms of customer satisfaction. let me tell you a personal story: i recently suffered severe damage at home from surges. where there was only one operator, who acted for free because he was simultaneously in charge of the network, the network operator and the energy supplier are now in the same situation in my country, france, where things were much simpler before. my question is this: have you launched a consumer satisfaction survey procedure in terms of price, service and maintenance?
yes, i am speaking very briefly to say simply that it does not seem to me that there were more cuts before, when the operator was single. i can tell commissioner almunia that this operator was responsible before. now that it has split between two separate entities, when there is a maintenance problem, the two entities - the energy supplier and the grid operator - kick each other's butt by claiming that the responsibility for the problem belongs to the other. it's a real embarrassment to the consumer.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would ask you not to put the final proposal to the vote in order to leave the negotiation open. we'll get back to that later.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by denmark, aims to help 550 recently made redundant people and meets european criteria. i therefore voted in favour of this request.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support european workers who have lost their jobs. it allows them to reintegrate professionally. exceptionally, the financial and economic crisis is a sufficient reason for a member state to apply for a grant. the danish shipbuilding industry, which has been affected by the crisis, has seen several waves of redundancies. in an effort to show solidarity with the latter, we have released €6.4 million in aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. i therefore support the mobilisation of eur 1 120 000 for the creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support and a final evaluation of the egf.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument designed to provide rapid assistance to workers affected by the crisis and the changes in the world economy. the global shipbuilding market is one of the main sectors hit hardest by the crisis. it experienced a 20% recession between 2008 and 2009. european manufacturers have been facing increasingly competitive asian competition for several years. the european union will therefore release 6.5 billion euros to help 550 workers laid off in danish shipyards. these funds will be used to finance new vocational training and entrepreneurship support programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which grants the city of odense in denmark european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 981 workers made redundant in the shipbuilding sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens above all against the uncertainties of life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark following the dismissal of 981 people in the shipbuilding sector. the €6.5 million aid for 550 workers will help them find employment in other sectors.
in writing. i am abstaining in the light of the danish workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain.
in writing. with the global shipbuilding market hit hard by the crisis (it experienced a 20% recession between 2008 and 2009), and with european shipbuilders losing market shares to their asian competitors for decades, workers in the sector are in a difficult situation. to deal with this, and to help 550 workers laid off by the odense steel shipyard or its suppliers, denmark has applied for help from the european globalisation adjustment fund. convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the egf's assistance for these unemployed workers, i supported the release of eur 6.5 million. this sum, supplemented by the danish state, will finance programmes to help them find employment in other sectors. while i support the egf's support for workers made redundant, i regret that the danish authorities are among those who are threatening the future of the egf after 2013, despite the fact that the country has benefited from mobilisations of this fund on several occasions. i hope that it can be extended beyond what is currently planned. i call on the council and the commission to take action in this regard.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by spain, aims to help 320 people made redundant and meets european criteria. i therefore voted in favour of this request.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support european workers who have lost their jobs. it allows them to reintegrate professionally. exceptionally, the financial and economic crisis constitutes a sufficient reason for a member state to submit an application for a grant. the construction sector in the aragon region of spain, hit by the crisis, is experiencing several waves of redundancies. in an effort to show solidarity with the latter, we have released eur 1.3 million in aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants the spanish region of aragon european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 836 workers made redundant in the construction sector. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens above all against the uncertainties of life.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to help 320 workers made redundant by small construction companies to find new employment. the amount of european aid is eur 1.3 million.
in writing. i am abstaining out of consideration for spanish workers brutalized by globalization and budget cuts. in the situation where they are being plunged into the consequences of the austerity and ultra-liberal policies advocated by the european union, one might feel entitled to vote against the paltry alms that the eurocracy is giving them at the tip of their fingers. but the little you give can ease their pain.
in writing. unemployment has risen dramatically in aragon in recent years: from 40,000 unemployed in 2008, the region had around 100,000 in 2011. of these, 15% were made redundant in the construction sector. to address this situation and to help workers made redundant by aragonese smes in this sector to find a job, spain requested assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund in december 2011. i have supported the release of such aid to help these workers in difficulty. the €1.3 million, supplemented by the spanish state, will be used to finance a number of measures: training, advice, assistance in finding a job, etc. while the economic crisis is not abating, i very much regret the council's decision to block the extension of the derogation to provide financial assistance under the egf to workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis. the egf is normally reserved for those who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade. i ask the council to reconsider its decision as soon as possible.
in writing. the european parliament, by adopting this energy efficiency directive, wanted to reaffirm its commitment to combating climate change. ensuring that member states improve energy efficiency by 20% is crucial for the eu to remain an environmental leader. insulating public buildings, carrying out energy audits and mobilising funds to enable this transition are the main measures in this text which i supported. in addition to the development of renewable energy and the reduction of co2 emissions, energy efficiency represents one of the greatest potential for progress in the fight against climate change.
in writing. finally, binding measures in the field of energy efficiency. that's something to be thankful for. we are not yet in a position to achieve the goals we set for ourselves. of course there are exceptions and some measures remain voluntary, but nevertheless the agreement reached at first reading makes it possible to transform certain aspects of the energy efficiency plan into binding measures. energy companies will have to reduce their sales to industrial and private consumers by at least 1.5% per year. each member state will have to ensure that 3% of the floor area of government buildings is renovated every year in line with the energy performance of buildings directive. finally, the states will have to submit an action plan at regular intervals. while parliament would have liked to go further on these issues, it must be remembered that it was the council and therefore the states which lowered the level of ambition of a text which remains, in the end, resolutely positive in the context of the current energy transition.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the turmes report on energy efficiency. the eu's energy consumption reduction target of 20% by 2020 is now binding. it is in addition to the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and increasing the share of renewable energy to 20% of energy consumption. the directive provides for a 3% renovation rate for public buildings, energy saving programmes for public services and energy audits for large companies. the report also provides for member states to present national targets to the european commission in may.
in writing. i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive. as the 20% energy saving reduction targets developed by the commission and adopted by the member states under the 2020 strategy appear to be running out of steam, it was necessary to reassess them and adapt them to more appropriate feasibility criteria. these new measures are designed to achieve additional savings while promoting the need for energy efficiency. thus, binding measures have been developed to involve governments more strongly: cost-effective approaches to building renovation are required, and the concept of energy efficiency will have to be an important criterion when awarding contracts. i also support the idea of making regular energy audits compulsory for large companies.
in writing. the european parliament today approved an energy efficiency directive which aims to achieve 20% energy savings by 2020, which is a significant step forward. i particularly welcome the fact that the directive lists a number of mandatory fields contributing to the energy efficiency objective: renovation of public buildings, strategy for mobilising investment for the renovation of residential and commercial buildings, cogeneration, energy saving certificates, etc. we have also asked the european commission to publish a list of complementary sectoral initiatives to ensure that the overall target of 20% energy savings by 2020 is actually achieved. the course is set, the member states must now implement this directive as soon as possible!
in writing. the european union has set itself the target of reducing its carbon emissions and energy consumption by 20% by 2020. to this end, concrete measures are needed, such as the renovation of public buildings, the development of energy saving programmes or regular and mandatory energy audits for large companies. if these measures are properly implemented, the european union will save €50 billion a year. increased energy efficiency will not only save our environment, but will also stimulate economic recovery and help create new jobs by stimulating the research and innovation sectors.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report, which responds to a real awareness among our people of the need to adapt our societies to significantly reduce energy waste in line with our past commitments.
in writing. as we know, europe has been in crisis for more than four years and is implementing all possible mechanisms and devices to put an end to it. but the crisis must not obscure other priorities such as the energy question. the european union had committed itself to a 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. this is an ambitious goal, but not unattainable if we invest more in sectoral energy efficiency measures. i therefore welcome the adoption at first reading of the energy efficiency directive, which, once implemented by the member states, can help to stimulate green growth and employment and to combat waste. in concrete terms, public buildings will have to be adapted to improve their energy performance, large companies will have to carry out energy audits, energy suppliers will be obliged to encourage their customers to save money... finally, in less accessible and rural areas, the development of cogeneration could be encouraged. cogeneration is a technique that allows the production of both heat and electricity from different energy sources (natural gas, coal, biomass).
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is of considerable importance for the proper use of our energy resources. the european directive imposes binding energy-saving measures, including the renovation of public buildings, and energy audits for all large companies. this 20% reduction in consumption will save the european union €50 billion a year. the adoption of this text is a step in the right direction and will allow, in the case of france, to continue, even more drastically, the efforts to reduce energy expenditure and promote renewable energies initiated by the previous government. the text was adopted by 632 votes to 25, with 19 abstentions.
in writing. we voted by a large majority for the energy efficiency directive. on 8 march 2011, the commission presented a new energy efficiency plan (eep) which sets out measures to achieve further savings in energy supply and use, while establishing a common framework for promoting energy efficiency in the union for 2020 and beyond. this directive requires member states to set energy efficiency targets which take into account the general 20% target. but if energy efficiency is one of the sine qua non conditions for economic efficiency, the epp group felt that the requirements of realism for our companies must also be met, and urged the rapporteur to accept the compromise proposed by the council. the level of flexibility of member states, industry and public bodies has been increased. however, member states must implement incentive measures for citizens and businesses. we therefore favour gradual adaptation and flexible arrangements so that member states can adapt according to their industrial fabric and their economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive, to achieve the european target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020. the measures adopted are varied and incorporate various mechanisms relating to the renovation of buildings, standards for public procurement, energy-saving obligations, transport and distribution. with the setting of national indicative targets, member states must commit themselves and choose the most effective measures to contribute to this common european effort.
in writing. the only progress made in this report is the introduction of binding energy efficiency targets. unfortunately, it is rendered insignificant by the narrow and unrealistic view of energy efficiency which the text proposes. it removes the obligation to take into account, in calculating energy efficiency, the total primary energy consumption that each product or service generates on the planet. worse, it exempts nuclear power plants from energy efficiency tests. add to that the validation of the carbon market and the validation of free energy competition, and you get a very high environmental bill for our ecosystem. i vote against it.
in writing. i support this report which calls for mandatory measures to reduce energy consumption in all member states. beyond environmental concerns, energy efficiency is an incredible driver of growth and employment and a key driver of our energy independence. the directive will reduce the rising costs of our dependence on energy imports - €488 billion in 2011 - which are sinking our trade balance, penalising our businesses and eroding the purchasing power of households. member states will have to set an example and renovate 3% of their public buildings annually. large companies will be obliged to carry out energy audits. the structural funds and other financial instruments of the union will be of valuable assistance in helping to finance this energy efficiency. we must make it a priority in the next operational programmes.
in writing. the high cost of energy, pollution, climate change: there are many reasons why we should support strong initiatives to ensure energy efficiency in our society and production models. it is not a question of going back to the days of the candle or of setting in motion a process of decline, but rather of adopting modern methods and concrete objectives to rationalize our consumption, both individually and collectively. that is precisely the purpose of this regulation, which i supported, and which sets the member states targets to be achieved by 2020. this is in line with the logic of the energy-climate package: to achieve 20% energy savings in the next 8 years. i believe that achieving energy efficiency means encouraging small everyday gestures, such as choosing public transport over cars or taking care of household consumption. but it is also for the public authorities to carry out a comprehensive programme for insulation and the environmental quality of buildings: this is where the main margin for progress lies. we have the right technology and know-how, all we need is the political will. this is how the union will continue to set an example and, above all, how we will have a real green growth engine.
in writing. i vote in favour of the waiver of the immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa, as he has requested. immunity must ensure freedom of political action, not prevent the proper administration of justice in cases of common law investigations. i'd ask for mine to be lifted if i had to.
in writing. i vote in favour of the waiver of the immunity of birgit collin-langen. my vote is in line with the wish that she expressed in wishing justice to be done. immunity should ensure freedom of political action, not prevent the proper administration of justice in cases of investigations into alleged embezzlement in connection with a previous mandate.
in writing. the european parliament called on eu member states to investigate their collaboration in the illegal extraditions of suspected terrorists carried out by the cia between 2002 and 2004. as i myself believe that the eu should be a model of transparency, i supported this report which calls for the possible violations of fundamental rights to be brought to light. without compromising our support for our allies, it is our duty to ensure that the european union remains a model in the protection of human rights.
in writing. following the european parliament's inquiry into the illegal cia flights outside any framework capable of guaranteeing minimum fundamental rights, meps are calling for the necessary political and legal conclusions to be drawn now. fundamental rights in europe are a cornerstone of our collective project. however, from 2001 to 2005, the cia carried out no less than a thousand illegal flights directly involving 12 member states. we must complete this effort to bring transparency and urgently fill the legal gaps that have allowed such drift. i therefore supported this report, which seeks to give legitimacy to european discourses on human rights.
in writing. i supported this report, which we adopted to send a strong signal to the member states that the european union should move forward towards a more effective area of security, justice and freedom, closer to the european citizens. there is no longer any question of the union collaborating with the cia's anti-terrorist programmes in the same way as after the 9/11 attacks and allowing the transfer and detention of suspected terrorists by the cia in the member states. the fight against terrorism must be a priority for the european union, but it must not be waged at the expense of respect for human rights, which are the european union's core values.
in writing. eleven years after the events of 11 september and the war on terrorism launched by the united states, many areas of uncertainty remain over the question of the cia's secret prisons in europe. the fight against terrorism requires a determined commitment from the european union and its main international partners. it is imperative that the 27 apply effective measures to improve the daily security of europeans, and investigate to rule out any risk of attack. this process must be transparent and not violate human rights. the european union is a zone of full rights in which no member state can act illegally. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. i voted resolutely in favour of this report which once again strongly condemns the unacceptable practices of 'extraordinary restitution', secret prisons and torture and, above all, the complicity of european states in these cia 'programmes'. for years we have demanded that the member states involved conduct thorough, impartial and independent investigations into the failings and abuses that have occurred, and we have demanded that the european union conform to its values. we are reminded of this in this new report. more detailed investigations must be carried out and responsibility established. the adoption of this report is a further step in the redress of these unacceptable practices. however, there is still an important work to be done to know the truth and to recognize all violations.
in writing. it is now five years since parliament adopted its final report on the illegal activities of the cia in europe, but member states are still reluctant to reveal what happened. this lack of transparency prevents the alleged violations of human rights from being brought to light. the idea that a secret imprisonment without trial has been carried out on the territory of the european union undermines the founding principles and moral authority of our institution. i voted in favour of clarifying the situation, but also to recall that respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of the european union which no one can violate.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which denounces extraordinary renditions, secret prisons and torture which violate the rights to liberty, security and human treatment. thus, states which are the subject of credible allegations must provide all available information in order to clarify the situation and assess responsibility where appropriate.
in writing. this text calls for an end to the interference of us special services in the european union. it recalled that the systematic secret detention of detainees constituted a crime against humanity for which the united states and its accomplices could be prosecuted. he denounced the role of nato in the secret detentions carried out on european territory. it called for the cessation of special procedures for terrorism suspects and for the united states to end the possibility of indefinite detention on suspicion of 'terrorism'. it recalls that state secrecy does not take precedence over fundamental rights. these are the reasons why i support this text, although i regret that it does not denounce nato and us interference in european affairs in general more widely.
in writing. some eu member states have reportedly allowed the cia, through a confidential programme, to transport and detain prisoners on their territory. in the face of such serious allegations, national parliamentary investigations were launched. but significant political and diplomatic pressures have prevented parliamentarians from working independently and making progress in their investigations. i am convinced that transatlantic cooperation between security and intelligence services is indispensable, particularly in the fight against terrorism. however, there is no excuse for impunity in the case of violations of human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. i therefore voted in favour of a resolution in plenary calling on the member states concerned to take responsibility and to support independent investigations as soon as possible. the territorial integrity of europe and the coherence of our action in the field of human rights and democracy are at stake.
in writing. the report by hélène flautre is a very good follow-up to the 2007 report, which gives an idea of the state of play of the union and the member states that may have been involved in this programme in terms of the recognition of human rights violations, which have reached an unprecedented level. despite pressure from some member states and some of their representatives in parliament, it takes stock of new allegations of complicity by member states that were not known in 2007, the reality of investigations in the member states and the obstacles encountered. violations of human rights are always intolerable, especially when they are committed by member states of the union who want to give lessons in this field to the whole world. there is no political realism in this matter, and even the fight against terrorism cannot lead to such deviations. the credibility of the union and its member states is at stake. there is still a considerable amount of work to be done to find out the truth about this programme and to recognize the countless violations that have been committed.
in writing. the member states of the european union are among the countries that most often grant asylum to persons in international danger. by voting this resolution, the european parliament wants to make more resources available for this policy. it is necessary to establish a joint processing of applications and to strengthen the role of the european asylum support office. this should allow for the need for solidarity between member states to be taken into account and thus promote closer cooperation between them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on strengthening solidarity within the european union in the field of asylum. i particularly encourage member states to use the opportunities available under the european refugee fund with targeted actions to improve asylum systems in member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to complete the establishment of a common european asylum system by giving substance to the concept of solidarity and responsibility-sharing. it is important to me that the european union has the means to support member states facing excessive pressure and costs. i support the report's four pillars of practical cooperation and technical assistance, financial solidarity, sharing of responsibility and mutual trust at the heart of a renewed system of governance. i also share the view that we will have to identify the shortcomings of asylum systems to better guarantee the rights of asylum seekers.
in writing. by adopting this own-initiative report, we wanted to send a clear signal, on the sidelines of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the asylum package: the dublin ii system, which has shown all its shortcomings and limitations, needs to be reformed. our message is twofold: a message of responsibility and a message of solidarity. it is essential to strengthen solidarity between european states in the field of asylum. the recent migration flows (following the events in tunisia, then in libya and now in syria) have demonstrated this. more than ever, europe needs a genuine common european asylum system, and the implementation of the european asylum directives is urgent in order to make our european asylum system credible and effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on strengthening solidarity in the asylum field within the union. it was important to send a clear message to the member states and the commission on the approach which the european parliament now wishes to pursue in this area. the principle of solidarity is not new, but its practical application is still in its infancy. the failure of the union to respond coherently and effectively to the consequences of the arab spring has further underlined the lack of mutual trust between member states. in this context, solidarity can and must take many forms, through enhanced practical cooperation, targeted financial assistance or even an equitable sharing of responsibilities. this solidarity, however, cannot be achieved without making each of the actors involved responsible. as a force for solidarity, mutual trust can only be restored and boosted if each state fully assumes its responsibilities and obligations in the field of asylum. this is the approach we are advocating, an approach which is both supportive and responsible.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution to take account of the interests of asylum seekers and the solidarity needs of the member states. this resolution complements the previous mechanisms and allocates more resources to this reinforcement. in addition, the european asylum support office will also have wider powers to promote closer cooperation between eu countries. in adopting this text, the members of parliament have taken their responsibility on this matter, and i welcome that. i voted in favour of this text, which is in the direction of developing joint work between the member states. this will be accompanied by the provision of sufficient resources to the asylum and migration fund.
in writing. this report denounces the logic of the dublin regulation. it promotes the distribution of beneficiaries of international protection and asylum seekers. it stressed that such a distribution was one of the most concrete forms of solidarity which was supposed to be at the heart of the european project. i support the proposal in the report to establish a distribution key for refugees based on objective criteria and to make any transfer to another state subject to the approval of the refugees concerned. i also support his insistence that frontex should respect the un principle of non-refoulement. i regret, however, that this text does not return to the concept of a 'safe country of origin' and proposes to subject the allocation of additional funds to questionable criteria. i vote in favour, in accordance with the main points of the text.
in writing. the report by my colleague kyriacos triantaphyllides was adopted by a large majority. this report comes at a very opportune time in the laborious discussions on asylum policy and the creation of a common european asylum system, which have been going on for years. it sends a clear message to the commission and the member states, giving them concrete guidance on how to achieve real solidarity on asylum in the european union. the report calls for the relocation of asylum seekers to take account of the interests of these people when they are allocated between member states. during the debate on this report, the european commission stated that the number of asylum seekers had decreased over the last ten years, justifying this by the decrease in the number of asylum seekers arriving in the territory. we know all too well what is going on and how fortress europe is being built at the expense of the rights of migrants and the international obligations of the member states of the union. the report also stigmatises the over-bid of certain member states. let us hope that the commission hears this message and will quickly come forward with a legislative proposal that will put an end to the political game that asylum seekers are playing.
in writing. standardization and standardisation have proved to be valuable tools within the european union and with our trading partners internationally. in a market as evolving as new technologies, it was therefore crucial to allow for the establishment of clear and stable rules for businesses, especially smes, but also for all stakeholders. by agreeing this text with the council in less than a year, the european parliament is unifying the single market, making it more coherent and stable for the union's economic players.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of new standardisation rules necessary to revive the single market. identified as one of the twelve levers of the single market act, these new rules will address three problems: the slow adoption of standards, the under-representation of the interests of smes and civil society actors, and the prevalence of standards adopted by non-european organisations in ict.
in writing. standardization is a driver of growth: it simplifies the administrative work of companies, lowers their production costs, and speeds up the time taken to bring their innovative products to market. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which simplifies the system at administrative and financial level while ensuring a high level of transparency. we want to involve small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as well as representatives of environmental, consumer and civil society organisations in the development of these standards, to ensure that the views of end-users, in particular those with specific needs, such as disabled or elderly people, are taken into account and that products meet their needs. the new rules will also make it possible to achieve better compatibility with the international standardisation system, thereby boosting the global competitiveness of european enterprises. from 1 january 2013, these new rules will apply directly to the member states.
in writing. i voted for the comi report on the proposal for a regulation on european standardisation. i believe that standardisation is an essential instrument to ensure, amongst other things, the functioning of the single product market, a high level of consumer and environmental protection, and more innovation and social inclusion. it seems to me important that the modernisation of the 'standardisation package' preserves the many fruitful elements of this system, overcomes its shortcomings and strikes the right balance between the national, european and international dimensions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for further harmonisation of existing standards within the european union. by adopting these measures, we are extending a new hand to our entrepreneurs, by facilitating the export of products manufactured in our territories. the return to growth will not be possible without clear support for the actors that form the economic fabric of our territories.
in writing. to facilitate the administrative procedures of companies, the european parliament adopted on tuesday a european standardisation process. this will enable firms to access standard solutions to technical problems more quickly. this will enable them to reduce their production costs, disseminate good practice and stimulate competitiveness and growth. i voted in favour of this report on european standardisation. it allows for the revision and merger of several existing directives. this report is part of the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the european parliament insisted in the negotiations to involve small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as well as representatives of environmental, consumer and civil society organisations in the development of these standards. consultation with these different parties ensures that the views of end-users are taken into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on european standardisation. the content of this report makes important progress in a concrete area which is essential for the internal market. european standards ensure continuity between a national and a european market. they thus offer new prospects for growth and a future for our businesses. however, in order to fulfil these functions, the system needs to be modernised and ensure transparency and representation of all actors, in particular smes.
in writing. this report does not call for the mandatory participation of parliamentarians in the process of european standardisation. worse, it supports the achievement of the single market in services through european or, where appropriate, wto standardisation of services. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation to modernise the european standardisation process by simplifying the current system at administrative and financial level, while ensuring a high level of transparency. the text aims in particular to improve the use of standards in the services and information and communication technology sectors. these new provisions will give european companies faster access to standard solutions for technical problems, thus reducing their production costs. these provisions will also allow for better compatibility with the international standardisation system. the text will thus help to improve the competitiveness of european enterprises and stimulate growth. the commission estimated that standards have an impact on eu growth of more than €35 billion per year. during the discussions, i paid particular attention to the involvement of smes in the development of standards, as well as consumers - especially vulnerable consumers - to ensure that the views of end-users are taken into account and that products meet their needs. the final text seems to me to be fairly balanced, and i support it. the regulation will enter into force at the beginning of 2013.
in writing. to ensure optimum food safety, all cattle are monitored from birth to slaughter and must wear earrings with a reference number. this is called meat traceability. given the progress made in electronic identification technology, my report proposes the gradual and harmonised development of this technology, on a voluntary basis and therefore only for cattle farmers who wish to do so. in five years' time, we will take stock of this development. we will then see whether it is appropriate to make electronic identification compulsory in place of conventional identification by earrings. as regards the other part of this text, namely the labelling of beef, my report recommends simplifying the procedure for the use of optional particulars on meat packages. this may include information on the breed of the animal or the breeding method. too often the european union is perceived as a constraint. the european parliament called for the labelling of beef to be simplified for farmers and operators in the beef sector. i shall now begin negotiations with the european ministers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the electronic identification of bovine animals. the extension of this technological mechanism will strengthen the current system for tracing cattle and food by making the system faster and more accurate. it also aims to make progress in reducing administrative burdens and improving disease prevention. in the long term, this type of innovation contributes to the competitiveness of the sector, and innovation is welcome in this sense.
in writing. i voted in favour of this parliament position for negotiations with the council because it seems to me to strike the right balance between respect for producers and modernisation of bovine identification and meat labelling. we must of course ensure simple and practical traceability and better consumer choice, which is why we must encourage the electronic identification of cattle, which makes it possible to streamline these processes. but we must not forget that we are in a time of crisis: we must not force the producers to make too costly investments, when they already offer us the best sanitation in the world! it would be irresponsible to subject small producers to such a non-urgent expense when they are already very weak from the current economic situation. as far as meat labelling is concerned, it is important to combat excessive administration: as long as the information is true and verifiable, producers must be able to specify elements that can help consumers in their choices. it is right to harmonize the situation between beef and other meats.
in writing. in the run-up to the negotiations with eu ministers responsible for agriculture, the european parliament has clarified its position on the electronic identification of cattle. progress has been made in the identification of cattle, but it is still imperfect. we have to be careful not to let the market fail. it was therefore essential that they should not be discouraged by increasingly burdensome bureaucratic rules coming from brussels. the electronic identification of cattle will therefore only concern voluntary farmers. in five years' time, a review will be carried out to assess whether compulsory electronic identification of bovine animals should be introduced. as regards labelling, the compulsory statements on the origin of the animals will not be changed. the european parliament, however, calls for the optional quality claims for beef (breed, breeding method, etc.) to be simplified and brought into line with the labelling rules for other types of meat.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague sophie auconie, which was adopted by a large majority. i'm glad you did. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the report by my colleague sophie auconie on the electronic identification of cattle was approved by our assembly. i welcome the adoption of this text, which i supported, because it guarantees better control of the mechanisms in place. it also improves consumer confidence while ensuring that the administrative burden on producers is reduced. the report by mrs auconie opens up a great deal of work by advocating simplification of the labelling of beef and the generalization of the electronic identification of these animals.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on electronic identification of bovine animals, which will allow for better traceability of beef without imposing a disproportionate burden on the sector, as it is a voluntary measure. however, electronic identification is a major technological advance towards greater food safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that my colleague sophie auconie has succeeded in finding a balanced and constructive position on the rules on the identification of bovine animals. the current traceability of cattle was introduced following the mad cow crisis in 1996, which revealed the need for full traceability from fork to fork. the traceability system for cattle as it currently exists is functioning. it is considered simple and well accepted in the field. however, in order to adapt this identification to technical innovations, the regulation provides for a gradual and harmonised development of this technology for voluntary breeders only. a review will be carried out in 5 years, giving farmers time to adapt, to assess the desirability of making electronic identification chips mandatory.
in writing. i was very pleased to see the rejection of the requirement for electronic identification of cattle, supported by some members who had clearly lost sight of the interests of farmers. this measure had aroused the indignation and concern of the farmers, which i shared and which had led me to speak to the commission to inform it of this incomprehensible situation. the additional costs and administrative burdens of this technique would have led to the disappearance of many farms, especially small farms and those in mountain areas, which would not have been able to comply with this obligation, although they are an essential part of our heritage, our rural fabric and biodiversity. while the strengthening of the legal arsenal can be understood in the light of the requirements of traceability and food safety, from the stable to the plate, it cannot be done at the expense of the freedom inherent in the profession of livestock farmer, especially since traditional techniques (tattoos, plastic loops) have demonstrated their reliability and durability. i therefore welcome the fact that, even with a small majority, the optional nature of electronic identification of cattle is now the rule and that this is being developed on a purely voluntary basis.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted new amendments to european pharmacovigilance legislation to prevent harmful medicines from being placed on the market within the european union. many people remember the scandal of the ombudsman, and the legislator had to intervene to ensure the safety of european citizens. by removing all room for manoeuvre for the states, the emergency procedure now takes on an automatic character as the commission had wished. in addition, the level of transparency required of companies has been greatly increased, requiring them to justify any voluntary withdrawal of a medicinal product or refusal to renew it.
in writing. while the ombudsman case has highlighted the serious gaps that remain in the field of drug safety, i welcome the agreement at first reading that we have approved today. this pharmacovigilance package meets an additional safety requirement. this requires an amendment to the 2001 directive to strengthen the legal framework: creating an automatic emergency procedure, strengthening the obligation of transparency for companies or providing for a blacklist of medicines subject to additional surveillance. it is the innovations of this reform which, it is to be hoped, will be able to overcome the shortcomings and strengthen the reliability of the european medicines system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2010 amendment to the european pharmacovigilance directive. this revision follows the mediator scandal. what does the european parliament want? in concrete terms, we want to strengthen the obligations in the event of withdrawal of a medicinal product: any withdrawal in a member state will now have to be notified and justified to all european health authorities. in the event of a suspected health risk, the withdrawal will be accompanied by an evaluation procedure to anticipate the possible consequences of a malfunction. we don't want to wait for the emergency to solve the problems. finally, as we voted in france, all medicines subject to increased surveillance will be freely available on a publicly available list. we believe that this duty of transparency is essential if we are to restore confidence between citizens, health authorities and pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on pharmacovigilance. this monitoring mechanism, which was implemented by the commission and the supervisory authorities in 2001, was reformed in 2010, partly as a result of the ombudsman case. i particularly support the following measures: the creation of an emergency procedure which is automatic as soon as a medicinal product is withdrawn from the market; the introduction of a new trigger mechanism for the emergency procedure; introduction of a transparency obligation for companies (which must declare whether there are safety reasons behind the voluntary withdrawal of a medicinal product); the commission will also be preparing a comprehensive list of medicinal products subject to additional monitoring.
in writing. it is at european level that we must detect, assess and prevent adverse reactions to medicines placed on the market in the european union. following the ombudsman case, the european commission carried out a 'stress test' which identified weaknesses in the current legislation. this work has resulted in these revisions. the improvements made today are many: they include the introduction of an automatic emergency procedure, the creation of a new trigger mechanism for the emergency procedure and the clarification of the transparency obligations of companies. the european regulation today marks a significant step towards greater health security for europeans, and we welcome it.
in writing. the mediator health scandal has at least served to raise awareness of the urgent need to improve pharmacovigilance in europe, i.e. the monitoring of medicines and the prevention of the risk of potential or known adverse effects resulting from their use. in 2009, france decided to withdraw this drug from the servier laboratory - which caused the death of an estimated 500 to 2,000 people - while, as early as 2003, it had been withdrawn from the market in spain and italy, at the request of the laboratory. now, as soon as a medicinal product is voluntarily withdrawn from the market in one member state, the precautionary principle will apply and the medicinal product will be withdrawn temporarily or permanently from other european countries. companies will also be required to report whether safety reasons have led to the voluntary withdrawal of a medicinal product or the non-renewal of its licence.
in writing. because it is essential to ensure optimal protection for european patients, the union must do everything possible to ensure that pharmaceutical advances and economic activities find a good balance. it is important to learn from each of the past mistakes and thus to adapt legislation as much as possible to enhance safety for all. that is why i voted in favour of this text which, following the mediator case, strengthens the protection of our fellow citizens.
in writing. following the mediator scandal, a drug responsible for between 1000 and 2000 deaths in france, there was a particular urgency to review the pharmacovigilance systems in the european union, which were marked by profound shortcomings. in this sense i support the work of my colleague linda mcavan on better detection of dangerous medicines and accelerated withdrawal from the market. we have a duty to provide for mechanisms to prevent other harmful medicines from being marketed in the european union. in addition, the question of the influence of laboratories and the pressure they exert on the administrative authorities must also be asked.
in writing. in 2010, the european institutions agreed to revise the rules governing pharmacovigilance with a view to implementing the legislation in 2012. the new legislation aims to strengthen the coordinating role of the european medicines agency and to improve the system for detecting 'signals' of potential problems and for monitoring at european level. since then, the mediator scandal has led to further strengthening of pharmacovigilance measures. this is the conclusion reached by the stress tests carried out in the wake of the scandal. the european parliament has set itself the objective of improving the health protection of european citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. however, to be more effective, better cooperation at european level is necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on pharmacovigilance at european level. in 2010, the european system was already significantly modernised to allow for increased monitoring of medicines placed on the market. nevertheless, the stress test following the mediator case showed that the system could still be improved. the new provisions are therefore positive in terms of patient safety.
in writing. following the mediator scandal, a drug potentially involved in more than 500 deaths in france, the european union conducted 'stress tests' on its pharmacovigilance legislation to ensure that it was well adapted. the commission has presented new measures to improve patient safety by adapting the way in which adverse reactions to an authorised medicinal product are detected, refining risk assessment and improving responses to such risks. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which improves the commission's proposal by strengthening the coordinating role of the european medicines agency and the detection of risk signals for a medicinal product.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted new amendments to european pharmacovigilance legislation to prevent harmful medicines from being placed on the market within the european union. many people remember the scandal of the ombudsman, and the legislator had to intervene to ensure the safety of european citizens. by removing all room for manoeuvre for the states, the emergency procedure now takes on an automatic character, as the commission had wished. in addition, the level of transparency required of companies has been greatly increased, requiring them to justify any voluntary withdrawal of a medicinal product or refusal to renew it.
in writing. while the ombudsman case has highlighted the serious gaps that remain in the field of drug safety, i welcome the agreement at first reading that we have approved today. this pharmacovigilance package meets an additional safety requirement. this requires an amendment to the 2001 directive to strengthen the legal framework: creating an automatic emergency procedure, strengthening the obligation of transparency for companies or providing for a blacklist of medicines subject to additional surveillance. it is the innovations of this reform which, it is to be hoped, will be able to overcome the shortcomings and strengthen the reliability of the european medicines system.
in writing. because it is essential to ensure optimal protection for european patients, the union must do everything possible to ensure that pharmaceutical advances and economic activities strike a good balance. it is important to learn from each of the past mistakes and thus to adapt legislation as much as possible to enhance safety for all. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which, following the ombudsman's case, strengthens the protection of our fellow citizens.
in writing. the european union had to respond to the ombudsman scandal which claimed hundreds of victims, due to the lack of sufficiently effective alert and response mechanisms to a dangerous drug. i voted in favour of this amendment to european pharmacovigilance legislation because it seems to me to be moving in the right direction: towards transparency and control. the three main measures introduced seem to me to be very important: the real reasons for the withdrawal of a medicinal product from a country by a company will be known, these medicinal products will be systematically subjected to an emergency assessment, which will make it possible to know its dangers, and finally a symbol on the packaging of the medicinal product will enable patients and practitioners to be informed when the medicinal product has been the subject of a further safety study. as part of the organisation of the medicines market, in which the union has competence, these measures make it possible to contribute at union level to ensuring that a health crisis such as the one we experienced with the ombudsman does not happen again.
in writing. the marketing of products in europe which are hazardous to health, such as distilbene, isomeride or mediator ink, and the scandal which this has caused, have made european states aware of the need to amend existing community legislation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is urgent to correct the shortcomings of the system through a new mechanism. the new system will introduce three major changes: an emergency assessment when a company decides not to renew a marketing authorisation, a notification requirement when a company decides not to renew a marketing authorisation and the creation of a consumer information leaflet on the packaging of medicines that have undergone a post-authorisation safety study.
in writing. preserving our oceans is one of the central objectives of european environmental policy. as a member of the committee on the environment, i welcome the support given by the european parliament to this text. by 2020, sulphur emissions from shipping will have to be divided by 7 in order to reduce pollution. their residual fuels contain on average 2700 times more sulphides than road fuels. this reduction is also very important from the point of view of public health. this reduction is expected to improve air quality and reduce the number of premature deaths from air pollution by some 50 000.
in writing. with our commitments on global warming by 2020, the european union must act on all pollution. the report sets an ambitious course to reduce marine pollution by strengthening fuel standards. this will drastically reduce sulphur levels. this is excellent news for environmentalists and further proof of the added value of the european parliament's and, more generally, the european union's action in the field of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of new standards to reduce sulphur emissions from shipping by 90% by 2020. these standards are more stringent and are in line with those adopted in 2008 by the international maritime organization (imo).
in writing. air pollution is unfortunately not only caused by emissions from the earth. the fuel for ships is a huge polluter, and has a huge impact on the environment. that is why we have approved the legislation which has been agreed with the member states. it sets new, stricter limits on the sulphur content of marine fuels, which will improve air quality along europe's coasts. by 2020, the general sulphur limit for fuels in european waters will be raised from 3.5% to 0.5%. fuels used in the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel - the sulphur emission control areas in europe (escas) - will have to meet the new international standards of 0.1% by 2015. cleaner fuels and technologies exist. it is time to promote and use them wherever possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to introduce new limit values for the sulphur content of marine fuels. this is a real step forward in the protection of biodiversity. the adoption of this text will, in particular, improve the protection of european citizens against the disposal of toxic products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the current emissions from ships from marine fuels are high in sulphur. they contribute to air pollution in the form of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter which are harmful to human health and lead to acidification. the draft directive aims to substantially reduce these emissions by making the most recent rules of the international maritime organisation binding in the eu. the costs of the new sulphur emission reduction standards could have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the sector and lead to a shift from maritime to land transport. therefore, member states will be able to grant aid to operators in accordance with the applicable rules on state aid. vessels which fail to comply with these new limitations will have to pay fines to the national authorities which should be sufficiently high to avoid paying them being more advantageous than complying with the rules.
in writing. the european parliament voted this week on the report on the marpol regulation which sets maximum levels of sulphur in marine fuels. i voted in favour of this text, which is the result of months of parliamentary investment. i also made my contribution by voting for an amendment which will give france the opportunity to renegotiate the requirements laid down in the regulation, which would have very serious consequences for our shipowners if they were maintained. the report was approved by a very large majority, with 606 votes in favour and only 55 against. i welcome the adoption of this text, which is effective in protecting the environment while allowing governments to negotiate the directive in order to obtain adaptations adapted to specific local situations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of pollution from ships. the fuel from ships is polluting the air because of its high sulphur content. the maximum sulphur content limit should be reduced from 0.1% to 1% instead of the current level. in order to avoid the negative impact of this more costly measure on the competitiveness of the sector, member states will be able to grant public aid to operators.
in writing. the deterioration of air quality caused by the use of hydrocarbons and the impact of this consumption on the environment and human health are no longer to be demonstrated. ships burn heavy, unrefined fuels that pollute. the ecological transition requires the fleet to be adapted to environmental requirements. this transition cannot be achieved without the appropriate support. the report merely states the obvious requirement, without specifying the amount. hundreds of jobs are threatened. i abstain because i support the proposed timetable for reducing sulphur pollution, but i am concerned that there is no substantial aid to implement the measures needed to do so.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content of marine fuels. the eu is proposing to reduce the sulphur content of emissions from ships in the baltic sea and the north sea to 0.1% by 2015. it thus transposed into community law an obligation laid down by the international maritime organisation (imo), which was difficult to ignore. the 2015 deadline, however, seems to be very premature in view of the economic and technical constraints it will impose on passenger carriers in particular. the fear is that some ships will have to be withdrawn from the fleets because they will not have the means to adapt to the new requirements, and that hundreds of jobs will be lost as a result, in an economic context where passenger transport companies are experiencing difficulties. however, negotiations in parliament have allowed the authorisation of state aid to help operators in this transition. it is also recalled that member states can still apply to the imo for delays to enable their fleets to be equipped on time. these various safeguard measures have therefore led me to approve the transposition of the european union's international obligations into this directive.
in writing. the votes in parliamentary committees had led to the adoption of untenable positions, and i welcome the fact that the trilogue negotiations have led to a more balanced version of the text. we must not lose sight of the major issues facing the shipping industry and the considerable impact this directive will have on the industry. of course, we must combat transport pollution and reduce the ecological footprint of all modes. but not at any price! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. i had stressed the need for accompanying measures, as a corollary to the reduction in sulphur levels in maritime transport. the commission must now propose the practical version of the toolkit it has announced. i'll be extremely careful about that. the eu is the world's leading maritime power and a world leader in the fight for the environment, proof that transport and sustainability are not incompatible, quite the contrary. we must put in place a thoughtful and flexible policy which no longer pits economy and ecology against each other.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the commission's proposal to amend a regulation clarifying the conditions for the payment of decoupled aid to wine growers. in the uncertain context of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), it is important to leave room for manoeuvre to member states so that they always have the necessary flexibility to decide to make additional payments, especially in the event of crises in this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. in the context of the new cap, i support the commission's proposal that member states should decide, before the end of the year, to transfer funds from their wine sector allocations to the single payment scheme. however, caution should be exercised in the programming of aid, given that the new cap is currently being negotiated.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which allows for greater flexibility in the allocation of aid to the wine sector. it is more important than ever to give our full support to this sector and to those who promote our terroir around the world and help preserve noble traditions.
in writing. the commission proposes that member states grant decoupled support to wine growers under the direct payments scheme. in practical terms, this will allow member states to transfer funds from the 'vin' envelope to the cap direct payments system (first pillar). this is a positive development, since payments will now be made for an indefinite period, which will enable farmers to predict their income over time and thus to gain stability. the introduction of this system will, however, require some adjustments. this resolution will allow member states to test this new system for a period of one year before finally implementing it if they so wish. that is why i voted for this legislative resolution.
in writing. at a time when our parliament is setting the future of our main policies, we are faced with the question of the support model for wine growers. by 2015, member states will have to choose between the single payment scheme for all farmers and the mobilisation of funds for wine growers, which they could previously have pooled. i have of course supported this measure, which seems to me the best way of recognising the specific nature of the wine-growing profession and of providing them with appropriate support in a context of changes in the sector. france had already made this choice, since it mainly uses the specific support scheme for wine growers. this reform will not therefore upset french viticulture, but will have the advantage of ensuring greater transparency and predictability as regards the amounts and nature of the aid paid. i welcome the adoption of this report, which also gives me the opportunity to reiterate my commitment to plantation rights. this regulatory instrument, which, by the way, costs nothing to the taxpayer, guarantees the optimum quality of our wines and a stable income for the winegrowers. this system must be preserved, it is a commitment i have made and it must be maintained.
in writing. an effective single market requires the greatest possible simplification of administrative barriers. this is done with the internal market information system (imi) which promotes the exchange of information and cross-border administrative cooperation in different languages. the european parliament wanted to vote in favour of a new legal basis for this system. by appointing national coordinators, it hopes to further improve the system and increase its transparency, with a view to extending it to other areas in the future.
in writing. the internal market information system (imi) is a computer network which facilitates the exchange of information between national administrations. so far, this administrative cooperation has applied only to the vocational qualifications and services directives. the current legal framework limits any extension. convinced of the benefits of imi, i voted in favour of the bielan report, which seeks to consolidate the rules governing its use, particularly those relating to the protection of personal data. any future extension of imi will be under the control of the european parliament through co-decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system. imi provides an online application for cross-border information exchange and administrative cooperation in different languages for the benefit of 600 european authorities. the report aims to enhance the transparency and legal certainty of the data recorded and to ensure a well-defined data retention period. i support the idea that the system can be extended to other union acts as long as these extensions can be systematically made the subject of a proposal for a regulation.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text, which will ensure and frame a good exchange of information within the eu member states and the regions of its territories. this will make it easier for national, regional and local authorities to cooperate, improving services to european citizens and increasing transparency within the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this relative report. the internal market information system (imi) was designed to improve the functioning of the single market by providing, since 2008, a fast and secure online application for the exchange of information and cross-border administrative cooperation in different languages. in the single market act of 27 october 2010, the extension of the imi to other sectors is considered as one of the essential conditions for working towards better governance of the single market. in its report, the european parliament has shown its willingness to consolidate the rules applicable to the use of imi into a single legal instrument, thus enhancing transparency and legal certainty, and facilitating a future extension of the system to cover other areas of union law. at present, imi is mainly used in the field of recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the internal market information system (imi). imi is currently used for the exchange of information for the recognition of professional qualifications and for services in the internal market. the text adopted will allow the system to be extended to cover cooperation in other areas of eu law.
in writing. this report rejects the possibilities for delegation of powers requested by the european commission. it introduces some improvements in the protection of personal data, but these are too weak. the possibility of keeping such data for more than six years is maintained. third countries will continue to have access to this data without the citizens' knowledge. i shall abstain only in support of the parliamentary scrutiny rightly requested by the committee on the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system (imi), which is a tool to improve the efficiency of administrative cooperation between competent authorities in the application of union legislation. i stress the importance of the protection of personal data in imi and i fully support parliament's efforts to increase the transparency of procedures, particularly with regard to the essential functionalities of the system and the categories of data that can be processed there. the amendment to the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which we are currently working on, proposes to make the use of imi compulsory, which will reduce costs, overcome linguistic and administrative problems and speed up the procedure for the recognition of a professional title. this is an effective way of strengthening the governance of the single market, which i fully support.
in writing. directive 2003/49/ec, as amended on many occasions, regulates the common tax regime applicable to interest and royalty payments between associated companies of different member states. for the sake of clarity, it is therefore necessary to simplify its use and to remove tax obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market. crossborder interest and royalty payments are taxed more heavily than domestic transactions. where transactions are purely domestic, the payee of the payment is subject to corporation tax in his country of tax residence. in the case of european payments, they may also be subject to withholding tax in the member state making the payment. the aim of the directive is to put crossborder interest and royalty payments on an equal footing with domestic payments by eliminating double taxation, red tape and cash flow problems for the companies concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a common tax system for interest and royalty payments between associated companies in different member states. in these times of economic and financial crisis, it is urgent to make every effort to reduce tax evasion and avoidance as much as possible, which represent a considerable shortfall for the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which seeks to improve the common tax system of the european union for companies established in the member states. the text will, in particular, make it possible to strengthen the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion and will limit double taxation within the member states. as the european union faces a difficult economic environment, it is important that it protects itself against all forms of loss of tax revenue from business, so that we can contribute together to the objectives of reducing our public deficits.
in writing. the report has the merit of highlighting the danger of tax evasion which the commission's proposal entails. but that does not mean that he gets all the consequences. if it refuses to lower the participation rate of a company to 10% so that it can be considered as a company associated with another company, it nevertheless maintains a very low tax rate for the companies concerned (70% of the average legal corporate tax rate applicable in the member states, or just 16.24%; this is much less than the vat rates that the troika imposes on the peoples of europe). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i vote against it.
in writing. the resolution's theoretical aim is to combat double taxation of companies by reducing taxes on interest payments and royalties paid between associated companies in different member states. in reality, the resolution is intended to facilitate access to tax exemptions. indeed, 'associated companies' enjoy exceptional exemptions on the payment of interest and royalties between them. this proposal broadens this category. the resolution also makes too little mention of tax fraud and evasion, which undermine the european union, and of tax competition between member states. the amendment tabled by the gue/ngl introducing a minimum corporate tax rate was rejected by a majority of 362 to 296. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution, which only increases the tax privileges of companies to the detriment of european citizens. it does not solve the structural problems of the union's taxation, which is the key to the crisis that is unfolding before our eyes and which is hitting the peoples of europe so hard, especially those in southern europe.
in writing. in the commission's 2013 work programme, adopted by the european parliament, we wanted to express our expectations for the future of the eu. we want to start negotiations to achieve a real economic and monetary union leading to a stronger political union with more democratic accountability. it is also essential to promote growth initiatives and better controls of eu funds spending at national level.
in writing. in france, as in europe, 2013 is a crucial year. after several years of crisis, the european economy is now at a turning point which requires us to redouble our efforts to get out of this slump. in detailing our roadmap for 2013, the european parliament calls on the european commission to act immediately to consolidate economic and monetary union, build up the banking union and relaunch employment policies. i voted for this report, but i can only regret the fact that there was no agreement on the redemption fund, which is sorely lacking in order to get out of this crisis structurally.
in writing. the challenges facing the european union require firm and determined action by the commission to finally emerge from the crisis and return to the path of growth and solidarity. it is in the spirit of this call for a resolute commitment, which takes particular account of the needs of the most vulnerable, that i have supported this resolution. the rise of extremes, euroscepticism and populist discourse should especially alert us to the particularly serious state of our europe and the crisis of legitimacy it faces in the eyes of our fellow citizens. the same applies when we see, helpless, the return of an intergovernmental logic that is surreptitiously invited to the negotiating table. so let us stop paying each other with words and start paying each other with concrete actions. in this sense, let us demand that the european framework for national roma integration strategies be a legally binding instrument rather than an empty shell. it is only by having the courage to face these challenges that europe can regain the confidence of our citizens.
in writing. this joint resolution by the christian right, the liberals, the social democrats and the european greens is distressing. these four groups accept without a word that the commission should continue to have prerogatives which should be those of parliamentarians, such as, in the first place, the power of legislative initiative. they merely 'urge' or 'invite' this unelected body to table the legislative proposals they themselves would have tabled if they had had real legislative power. but the worst part is the content of these suggestions. not content with endorsing the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester, the euro plus pact or the employment and growth pact, these groups insist on the establishment of the single market for services, the single energy market, the maintenance of the carbon market and the fight against protectionism. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution by the epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa groups on the commission's work programme for 2013. this resolution supports the current economic policies, the dramatic consequences of which are unfortunately all too well known, particularly in the social field. it thus urged the commission to grant more powers to the ecb, supported the austerity policy (two-pack, european semester, deficit reduction) and professed its adherence to the old liberal principles (opening up markets, combating protectionism, multiplying free trade agreements). the gue/ngl is promoting radically different proposals. we want to fundamentally change the role of the ecb and put an end to its independence, to put in place a european investment programme, a framework directive on an adequate minimum income, and a european guarantee for every young person in the union to be offered a job or further training in the event of unemployment. these are the proposals we have put forward in an alternative resolution.
in writing. tissues and stem cells are increasingly playing a central role in treating certain diseases. the european parliament has adopted a report proposing to increase the stocks of umbilical cord blood and stem cells through a highly regulated and unpaid system. these resources could help research into treatments for many childhood diseases. these free, voluntary, and strictly supervised donations will come mostly from deceased persons. by encouraging the establishment of common standards between public and private donation banks, this will facilitate the exchange and thus the availability of tissues and cells.
in writing. the european parliament has taken a position on voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells following the european commission's second evaluation report on the subject. this is an own-initiative report which expresses the views of the members, and not a legislative text which regulates a sensitive area which is the exclusive competence of the member states. in france, we revised the bioethics law in 2011. in this report we remind you that donations must remain voluntary and not for profit. we also call on the member states to ensure full transparency in this area. we also encourage donation and collection of cord blood, which is useful for transplantation. as regards sensitive issues relating to research on embryonic stem cells, in vitro fertilisation or cloning from stem cells for research purposes, we would point out that the best decisions can be taken at member state level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on voluntary and unpaid tissue and cell donation. i support the rapporteur's wish that donations should become more and more voluntary and not for profit in a transparent environment. the monetization of human body products is prohibited in france, unlike other countries where a genuine trade has been established.
in writing. i voted for the yannakoudakis report. it reinforces the view that donations should be voluntary and made without profit in a transparent environment. i believe that altruism is essential when it comes to donating tissue and cells. compensation by member states should therefore be managed with caution, and non-financial benefits should be considered. to help crossborder cooperation work, i support the introduction of strict controls to ensure maximum traceability in the donation chain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which recalls, if it is still necessary, that organ donation must be voluntary and not for profit. organ donation saves lives and brings real hope for a better future for many families. this gift, if properly managed, is an opportunity for many of our citizens. however, the press has too often reported on the existence of an illicit parallel trade in organs from well-identified countries. every european citizen must have access to the new medical techniques for donation, while being protected from illegal practices such as organ trafficking.
in writing. i thought it was important to vote in favour of this resolution which reaffirms certain principles concerning tissue and cell donation. it is ethical, but many member states do not take it into account: donations of tissues and cells should be voluntary, unpaid and, with few exceptions, anonymous. these ethical failings in some states take place in a context of regular revelations of cases of trafficking in human products. the first reason for my vote is to send a signal to the member states to put an end to this traffic. the scope of this resolution thus goes beyond ethical issues and concerns issues of public health and the fight against criminal behaviour. the resolution also encourages mechanisms for better european and international cooperation to better manage the growing need for human tissues and cells for innovative therapies, which is also a major public health issue.
in writing. i particularly support this report which reiterates an absolute opposition to the payment of donated tissue and cells. these donations are essential for transplantation and for the care of many patients. despite the structures and information campaigns, about half of the member states still report regular shortages of tissues and cells, including bone marrow and gametes. to date, more than 20,000 cord blood cell transplants have been performed worldwide in the last 20 years to treat leukemia and lymphoma, genetic diseases, and immune deficiencies. but at birth, too few mothers are encouraged by maternity wards to donate cord blood. it would take a willingness on the part of the member states to see cord blood no longer regarded as hospital waste but as a real resource for research. public and private cord blood and stem cell banks should cooperate more closely. a regulatory framework for member states will have to be found quickly to ensure that these establishments operate in a transparent and secure manner. institutions must respect the principles of equity in access to care and solidarity.
in writing. the principle of voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells is an absolute principle which cannot be called into question. however, the shortage of cells and tissues cannot be ignored as the number of patients requiring immediate needs and the list of applicants continues to grow. donations are essential for transplants and for the care of patients with heart disease, leukemia, genetic diseases, etc. the structures and information campaigns exist, but they are insufficient in different countries. better cooperation between member states is therefore essential to improve crossborder donation. the institutions must encourage the donation of tissues and cells, including cord blood. it's by changing perceptions, by demonstrating that the umbilical cord is a resource for research, that we can save lives.
in writing. stem cells are playing an increasingly important role in treating various diseases. the report proposing to increase the stocks of umbilical cord blood and stem cells through a regulated and unpaid system was adopted on tuesday 11 september. this report, which i voted in favour of, states that donations of tissue or cells must be voluntary, unpaid and transparent. the report also calls for common standards for public and private donation banks. this would facilitate the exchange and thus the availability of tissues and cells. the european parliament's adoption of this directive will make it possible to regulate organ donation even more closely, in order to avoid any costly trafficking or transfer.
in writing. this motion for a resolution sets out the broad guidelines for future regulations on tissue and cell donation. it reaffirms in particular the necessary principles of free and anonymity for all donations of cells and tissues. as stem cells become one of the great hopes of modern medicine, a clear position on the subject is essential. the establishment of a regulatory framework would ensure the safety of both donors and recipients. but this resolution opens the door to the creation of private cell and tissue banks in which individuals can store their own cells and tissues. in practice, cord blood from an anonymous donor is used and transplanted 100 times more often. it is therefore a clear breach of the individual protection (and ultimately selfish) that can only be done at the expense of anonymous donations. i therefore abstained on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. enhancing women's participation in the economic cycle is a central issue in my political commitment. as president of the association 'women at the centre', i can only welcome the support given by the european parliament to this own-initiative report. by promoting the positive role that women can play in decision-making bodies, the european parliament is once again demonstrating its commitment to gender equality.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the role of women in the green economy. the report aims to encourage women's participation in new green jobs. thus, activities producing goods or services that are conducive to environmental protection, or eco-activities, are seen as a way of achieving greater gender pay equality and reducing economic and social disparities between men and women.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to look at the question of the role of women in a sustainable economy. why would you do that? because they are the ones who are on the front lines today and are paying a particularly heavy price in the face of the devastating effects of the ecological crisis. it is worth recalling that it mainly affects women in rural areas, who are impoverished by soil degradation, those in megacities who are forced to live at a pace incompatible with respect for human rights and who are exploited in degrading conditions, and women and their children who are victims of displacement due to conflicts and climate change. women are still too often excluded from sustainable development policies, even though they play a vital role in maintaining an agro-ecology that preserves biodiversity and strengthens social cohesion through their collective organisational practices. women have solutions to the crises we face, let's stop ignoring them.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report by my swedish colleague mikael gustafsson of the gue/ngl. the report stresses that the current economic and ecological problems are being tackled in a primarily technical way, ignoring that the solutions lie in a drastic change in social justice and a sustainable economy. women are both the first victims and the true pioneers in this field. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. the report calls on the member states to draw up action plans to enable more women to choose training and work in fields where a large proportion of future green jobs are open to them (engineering, natural sciences, information technology) but which are, de facto, largely closed to them for the time being. women's access to micro-credit for small businesses, or the development of childcare infrastructure and retirement homes to enable women to reconcile their personal and professional lives, are some examples.
in writing. this report gives an overview of the situation of women in the service sector, where they are traditionally in the majority. however, this observation conceals a very different reality. women are often part-time, excluded from managerial positions and subject to unjustified pay differentials. immigrant workers and parental leave are issues on which the european parliament has voted in favour so that the situation of women can finally be better taken into account in all the countries of the european union.
in writing. gender inequalities in the service sector are significant. this is a well-known phenomenon: women work in the sector in large numbers, sometimes in low-skilled jobs, and the proportion of women working part-time is disproportionate to that of men. these often unsuccessful part-time jobs are the concrete expression of a fragmentation of the labour market and the precarious position of workers, especially women. we must take this into account in the development of current public policies, both in employment and education. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. finally, it should be remembered that equal pay for men and women has not yet been achieved, despite the fact that this issue has been present in the european debate for 30 years... equality is still a struggle in our respective countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on working conditions for women in the service sector. the under-representation of women in decision-making positions and the large gender pay gap are commonly observed. yet little progress has been made. at present, 80% of women's jobs are in the service sector: legislation must be focused on this sector if improvements in working conditions are to be expected. it is also urgent that states put in place easy-to-use assessment tools for different jobs in order to make equal pay a reality.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of my colleague iratxe garcía pérez' report, which perfectly highlights the profoundly inequitable characteristics of the organisation of services in our european societies. it is very regrettable that the employment of women in services is still deeply marked by stereotypes that are firmly rooted in society, according to which they have the primary responsibility for the welfare of their families, with jobs considered as an extension of the domestic tasks performed on a daily basis, such as cleaning services, teaching, textile manufacturing, etc. the jobs occupied by women are for the most part flexible, parttime, low-skilled jobs with considerable wage differences, in short, almost universal precarious work which cannot be ignored. it is in this context that national and european authorities must be committed to combating gender stereotypes, particularly from an early age. the issue of the employment - or rather exploitation - of migrant women, particularly in the fields of domestic help or personal care, must also be the subject of the greatest attention of the public authorities.
in writing. the garcia pérez report was adopted by a large majority in plenary, with 528 votes in favour, 57 against and 33 abstentions. this own-initiative report highlights the main statistics on working conditions for women in the service sector in the eu: in 2010, more than 80% of women's jobs were in the service sector. women are overrepresented in flexible and parttime jobs, underrepresented in decision-making positions and have to face the issues of the wage gap. women also occupy a large proportion of undeclared jobs, particularly in domestic help and care for people. the report also expresses concern about the situation of immigrant and unreported women working in the service sector.
in writing. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mrs iratxe garcia perez on the working conditions of women in the service sector. with this text, the european parliament is highlighting a statistic that is rarely mentioned in the media: the share of women in the service sector, the sector which is the biggest drain on jobs in the european union. furthermore, these jobs are usually part-time and pay less than male jobs. in view of this, i can only welcome the adoption of this report by the european parliament, which encourages the member states to improve the working conditions of women in the service sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on working conditions for women in the service sector. women are largely represented in the service sector and are predominantly in parttime jobs. we must also combat the wage gap, which is on average 17.1% between men and women in the european union. there are various solutions for member states, such as the introduction of tax incentives and service vouchers to combat the shadow economy, or the adoption of labour market reintegration policies for the most vulnerable workers.
in writing. 83% of the female labour force work in services. it is therefore necessary to look again at the working conditions of women in this sector. we cannot stress enough the importance of the full integration of women into the labour market, by combating discrimination against them. women are the source of most of the precarious jobs and are underrepresented in management and executive positions. the first measure must be about remuneration. how can we justify the fact that women still earn 16% less than men? we urgently need to enforce the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work. this discrimination is everywhere, even in the political sphere. if the european union does not give women the opportunity to develop their skills, it betrays its values and leaves the field open to the kind of obscurantism that unfortunately prevails in other parts of the world. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls on the european institutions and the member states to put an end to the glass ceiling faced by women in their careers and to adopt measures to improve the reconciliation of family and working life.
in writing. i voted for this report originally proposed by my group, the gue/ngl. it highlights the fact that women are the first victims of precariousness, a persistent feature of the labour market in all the member states of the european union. women account for nearly 80% of parttime work; women hold a majority of fixed-term contracts; women in the same jobs earn on average 16.4% less than their male counterparts, with a difference of 17.1% in the service sector. this report shows how material inequalities between men and women remain high, despite eu commitments in this area. the report therefore calls on the member states to improve working conditions for women, for example by ratifying without delay the international labour organisation's convention no 189 ('decent work for domestic workers') or by transforming precarious work in the service sector into stable work through various measures (introduction of a special scheme for the personal services sector to combat undeclared work, council's unblocking of the amendment of the directive on pregnant workers).
in writing. education and training are central to the europe 2020 strategy. in these times of high budgetary pressures across member states, it is crucial to maintain quality education systems by minimising early school leaving and encouraging mobility to acquire new skills. this report adopted by the european parliament aims to show that drastic cuts in education budgets would save money in the short term but would have much higher costs in the long term. this would risk having a low or unskilled labour force, unsuited to the needs of the labour market and indirectly causing a fall in member states' revenue. thus, it is crucial to focus our efforts on investing in early childhood education in order to limit the social cost of early school leaving and school failure.
in writing. in the difficult times we are living in, it is important to remember that investing in human capital, especially in the younger generations, should not be seen as a cost but as an investment in the future, in sustainable growth and an inclusive society. it should be stressed that investing in the development of both knowledge and skills is essential to improve the social, civic and occupational integration of learners and to reduce unemployment. the report also highlights the role of employers in making lifelong learning a reality by promoting the benefits of continuing training and improving its accessibility to all workers. this is a necessity, while at the moment the rights to training are still under exploited.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on education, training and europe 2020. in a context of economic instability and an ageing population in the european union, education and training must be key areas of investment in order to combat unemployment and improve access to employment for young people. the heterogeneity of the education and training systems of the member states can be both a strength and a barrier: a strength from which we can draw and exchange expertise and good practice to combat school drop-out for example, but also an obstacle to the coordination of training and certification systems and to the transnational mobility of learners. i also believe that there is an urgent need to modernise school and vocational guidance programmes in order to improve the balance between training and employment in european companies.
in writing. i fully supported the own-initiative report by my colleague mary honeyball because i believe that we must now propose concrete actions which are proportionate to the seriousness of youth unemployment which is currently affecting many member states and which exposes them to an unprecedented risk of social exclusion and poverty. first, an increased level of skills and knowledge is needed to limit this phenomenon. in addition, an additional effort is needed to inform young people about the training available, especially about the possibilities of training in a country other than their own. but that is not all, we also know that many young people have too many degrees and are struggling to find work. finally, another difficulty is the situation of young people who do not have sufficient training and who drop out of school. education is an investment, this must be strongly emphasised, and member states should consider access to lifelong learning as essential, despite some budgetary 'clean-ups'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague mary honeyball entitled 'education, training and europe 2020'. with this report, we in the european parliament are showing our determination to promote the education of young children, which must be a priority, not only from a moral point of view but also from an economic point of view. it is clear that the current economic climate is not conducive to such investments. the current economic situation is characterised by widespread austerity policies affecting all budgetary lines, including education and training. yet the benefits of these investments are many: strengthening the future workforce, reducing future health care costs, reducing tax losses for governments. reducing early school leaving, strengthening support for higher education in lifelong learning and promoting transnational mobility for the acquisition of new skills are all objectives that i support with all my strength. i believe that this report contains proposals for the construction of a more harmonious society, and i am therefore delighted that all the political groups have approved this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on education, training and europe 2020, which recalls that young people are particularly affected by unemployment, which affects more than 20% of young europeans. alternative vocational training, for example, provides better access to the world of work thanks to the practical dimension it includes. the difficulty of young graduates in finding a job should lead the member states to analyse and assess the quality of their education systems so that they prepare effectively for the labour market by providing the opportunity for professional experience.
in writing. the report has the great merit of calling for public expenditure on education to be deducted from the calculation of the public deficit of the member states. i support this unprecedented request and hope to see this consideration extended to other public services. that is why i am voting for this text, despite the support for the europe 2020 strategy which i deplore.
in writing. i regret that the objectives for lifelong learning set by the european union in its europe 2020 strategy are still far from being achieved. i also regret that some member states are reducing the share of their budget allocated to education and vocational training, whereas the present period requires us to strengthen these policies. i am convinced that economic growth must be based primarily on education. i therefore fully endorse the resolution adopted by the european parliament, which calls on the member states to invest in education, training and research, with particular attention to young people and vulnerable people. efforts to establish a european system for the certification and recognition of qualifications are needed to improve mobility in both education and the labour market.
in writing. i support this report which warns member states of the disastrous economic and social consequences of school drop-out in the eu. the crisis seriously jeopardises the future of young people. youth unemployment rose from 15.5% in 2008 to 22.5% in 2012, while the proportion of young people aged 15-24 who are not in employment, education or training rose by two percentage points. in 2010, 53% of young people who left school early were unemployed. we ask the states to set themselves the objective of investing at least 2% of gdp in higher education and 3% in research. in addition, europe must achieve, by 2020, to increase the number of young people with a university education to 40% and to reduce school drop-out to less than 10%. this investment in education and training is absolutely necessary if the european union is to be able to compete with the new global economic powers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on education, training and europe 2020. education and training are essential elements for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for europe's future growth. the current economic difficulties must not be used as a pretext for reducing the resources allocated to education and training. in order to guarantee investment for the future, the socialists proposed to exclude investment in education and training from the national deficit calculation of the budgetary pact. as the report points out, the cost of school failure is higher than that of the crisis. it is not a question of making short-term savings that will stymie future growth. for the same reasons, we encourage member states to devote at least 2% of their gdp to higher education for a knowledge-based economy. but the effort must also be directed towards the education and schooling of young children, a crucial step in the development of future workers and citizens.
in writing. the european audiovisual sector has to cope with the many changes in its market in recent years. the development of the internet must be seen as an opportunity to link content to online platforms while ensuring fair remuneration for authors. the european parliament's call for a genuine framework in this area must be heard. educating young people about new technologies, promoting the exchange and payment of works and allowing a balanced negotiation between authors, producers and consumers are all important issues for the future of this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the european union. the report aims to improve the competitiveness of the european audiovisual sector and to ensure, as a priority, legal certainty for rightholders and consumers on the application of copyright. the report also makes a positive call for the promotion of european creativity in legal offerings and strong support for the online services sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which provides a basis for reflection in order to support our audiovisual sector. it is together that we must work to preserve this unique heritage in the world. supporting it also means securing the cultural space around us. the fight against fraud will only be achieved by offering everyone a rich and high quality legal offer. the text we adopted today by a large majority calls for a strengthening of the competitiveness of the european audiovisual sector.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report by my colleague, jean-marie cavada, which allows for the improvement of the dissemination of audiovisual works on the internet. this will allow easier access to the various works for the public and their transnational dissemination. this greater accessibility of works will automatically lead to an increase in their popularity and thus in their audiences. this dissemination will not affect copyright as copyright is protected and recognised by the european parliament as a tool for defending creativity. thanks to this text, which i voted in favour of, photographs, films or other documents which are protected by copyright but whose owners cannot be identified could be made public throughout the european union. this legislation will allow everyone to have access to these "orphan works" and will advance the project of making this cultural heritage available online.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jean-marie cavada on the dissemination of audiovisual works online in the eu. in this report, we, the members of the european parliament, insist on the need to implement the rules on the broadcasting, making available and viewing of european audiovisual works. the report also focuses on media and digital education for citizens of all ages, starting from an early age. i believe that at a time when the weight of new technologies is becoming increasingly important in our societies, it seems necessary to coordinate the rules governing all the measures implemented in connection with new technologies. these devices must be made available to all in a secure manner. that is why i welcome the fact that parliament is calling on the commission to act on the legal security of internet users and consumer protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the online dissemination of audiovisual works in the eu, so that public authorities do not remain on the sidelines of the development of new technologies but seize the potential it holds for ensuring cultural dissemination to citizens within a legal framework protecting creators and internet users. digital technologies are an opportunity for heritage works, they should be accessible to all and therefore taught to citizens of all ages, they should allow direct remuneration of creators.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the european union. i am convinced that we must act at european level to combat the fragmentation of this sector and move towards a digital single market. the development of this digital market presents important challenges that we must overcome together. i am therefore pleased that this resolution takes account of the need for a competitive audiovisual sector which creates jobs and protects the interests of consumers and rightholders. in this spirit, i supported the call for member states to ban all rights-sharing contracts for the online distribution of audiovisual works. i believe that authors and performers should receive adequate, fair and proportionate remuneration for the volume of online exploitation of their works. in the same spirit, i voted in favour of the principle of chronology, which allows audiovisual works to benefit from an efficient system of pre-financing.
in writing. 6.9% of gdp, 14 million jobs, €860 billion turnover per year, continued growth despite the crisis: the cultural and creative industries have a high potential for creation, growth and jobs, which remains largely untapped. following my report on 'unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries' voted last year, parliament is today voting a resolution on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the european union. i supported this report, which aims in particular at improving access to audiovisual works available online - films, music or streaming - particularly outside national territory and language limitations. counterfeiting and piracy discourage investment in this sector. the report therefore stresses the importance of developing a more diversified legal offer and more flexible operating windows. finally, legal certainty of copyright and improved collection of copyright must be guaranteed at all stages of the creation and distribution process.
in writing. the internet has evolved faster than european law. we must therefore now ensure legal certainty in the european online digital space and ensure that unequal treatment between online and offline services is avoided. the resolution reaffirms the principle of net neutrality, which allows the broadcasting of offers to the widest possible audience, thus promoting media pluralism and cultural diversity. it also rejects the principle of a pan-european licence, which would have opened the door to the monopoly of the audiovisual market by a few large players to the detriment of many smes, which are the real heart of the film and audiovisual industry today. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to guarantee universal access to a wide range of internet content while protecting the small players in a major european industry. we demand that the european commission and the member states take this into account in future european legislation.
in writing. some member states are going off the rails! some countries are able to make their voices heard, unlike the french government. and under the pretext of savings, they decided on deep cuts in the 2013 budget of the european union. the crisis certainly requires us to think differently. saving money does not mean that you are mortgaging your future. cutting the research and innovation budget by 15% and the sme development budget by a quarter in 2013 is absurd! the council last june wanted a pact for smart and sustainable growth, based on investment that creates jobs. it starts today. technological innovation generates very high added value and hundreds of thousands of highly skilled jobs. our smes are the very basis of the real economy. not the kind you find in dark market halls. the one that counts every day. the 2013 budget is not trivial. it will set the tone for the next decade, the outline of which we are now drawing. if we are not ambitious, why do you want our economic players to be? so let us stick to our objectives and stop parliamentarizing. courageous and concrete decisions: that is what our citizens want to see. i hope parliament will not give in.
madam president, madam high representative, we all appreciate the scale of your task and the difficulties involved in coordinating the member states, which are very sensitive to their diplomatic and military prerogatives. this calls for a certain tolerance and a willingness to acknowledge your efforts. however, it is impossible for us today not to express a certain disappointment, even a certain frustration, which is also well expressed in the brok report, when it insists on the lack of clarity in the strategic priorities of the cfsp. the laudable ambition you have shown is to implement the comprehensive approach which must be the european union's added value on the international scene. but i must admit that the approach seems to be more global in its dimension and, i was going to say, in its geographical dispersion. the desire to be everywhere, all the time, sometimes makes us wonder what the european union is really doing and where it is really successfully exercising a global capacity. you just mentioned the horn of africa; it is true that the union is using all its resources, including military ones, and it is still a success, but a limited success. the cfsp must really move away from a logic of fragmented, fragmented initiatives which are linked together by urgency and current events, and concentrate on a hierarchy of priorities and a genuine and coherent mobilisation of all its instruments.
in writing. last week, the commission announced an increase in european humanitarian aid to syria. between the contributions of the member states and the sums taken from the eu budget, almost €200 million has been released. i would like to welcome the financial efforts made by the eu and to highlight the difficulties encountered on the ground in getting the aid there. there is an urgent need for "humanitarian relief" to help the 2.5 million syrians displaced and/or trapped in urban clashes (mainly in damascus and aleppo). the eu's soon-to-be-launched 'regional protection programme' must be supported unanimously by the international community. the connivance diplomacy of russia, china and other emerging countries towards the assad regime is intolerable: in the face of a civil war that is intensifying day by day, it is imperative to develop a responsible international scenario that leads to effective action. the impact of this action on neighbouring countries, in particular lebanon and jordan, must be taken into account.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of mr maurice ponga, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development, on the report by mr gallagher. i think it is important to recall that when the european commission wants to punish a country that practices unsustainable fishing, it must take into account its level of development. in the name of the principle of policy coherence with development objectives, it is, in my view, crucial that the measures adopted in the fisheries sector do not call into question the development plans and strategies put in place by the european union in the countries concerned. the draft report by mr gallagher takes up this important idea for our committee on development by providing that measures must not be unjustified or even discriminatory. i therefore call on the european commission, when adopting such measures, to respect this principle of policy coherence with development objectives and to ensure that the level of development and vulnerability of countries are duly taken into account.
mr president, this third reform of the common fisheries policy must not, once again, be against the interests of fishermen. no, not all fishermen are these sea-robbers, the only ones responsible for the poor state of health of stocks, as they claim, by encompassing all categories of fisheries, environmental organizations and the european commission. it is clear that we must preserve fish stocks, but we must also enable our fishermen to make a living from their activity and preserve the economic fabric, the dynamism and the cultural identity of our coastal regions. the main measures taken by the european executive are, once again, to reduce the number of fishermen in order to achieve the mythical 'maximum sustainable yield'. i would remind you that the french fleet has decreased by more than 50% since 1980. the commission proposes, in particular, the introduction of individual transferable quotas, which are a guarantee of the industrialisation and concentration of the sector, or a total ban on discards, which the professionals consider unrealistic. this reform proposal is probably appropriate for the industrial fleet, but as it stands it would mean the planned death of what remains of local and small-scale fishing.
in writing. the report is in line with the strengthening of producer organisations, which are given new prerogatives in the field of management and marketing of production. the text also introduces new provisions to give consumers more information on fresh products such as the date of landing, the indication 'unfrozen' or the catch zone. the commission should take this further by introducing a european eco-label to reward sustainable fishing practices.
in writing. we are about to vote on many texts that will define the future of european fisheries. these texts concern hundreds of thousands of jobs, our food self-sufficiency, the preservation of fisheries resources and the sustainability of an economic sector. despite the obvious importance of these issues of general interest, the commission has given a very liberal impetus to its reform project. the work of parliament has certainly helped to temper these proposals. but this is only the first step. the work to be done must go beyond declarations of intent. we must now build real tools to achieve the economic, social and environmental balance of this activity, in line with the eu's 2020 strategy. the preservation of jobs is as essential as the preservation of the resource. there is an urgent need to establish uniform controls throughout the union. we will also no longer be able to delay the collection of scientific data. fleet renewal is a prerequisite for the emergence of a future fishery that is more selective, safer, cleaner and more economical in order to be more profitable. otherwise, the question arises: is fisheries policy an exception to the 2020 strategy?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i in turn welcome the work done by our two co-rapporteurs who, after intensive, difficult but very brilliantly conducted negotiations, have managed to reach an agreement with the council of the union which will allow the establishment of minimum standards for the protection of victims throughout the european union and mark a further step in the construction of this area of freedom and justice at community level. there are not often, in the present times, so many reasons for satisfaction in the union. this evening we can all rejoice at the provision made by this text to protect victims, who are a legal category, as you have said, commissioner, which is often forgotten in our national legal systems. giving justice to victims is about protecting them, it's about facilitating their access to justice, it's about supporting them, it's about giving them the right to legitimate redress. this coordinated and integrated approach to victims was therefore essential. in particular, i would like to congratulate you on three points: firstly, the council's broad acceptance of increased protection for children. this text pays particular attention to children and their needs, their vulnerability in terms of protection. this is done by this text and, in particular, by article 22, which fully enshrines the principles and standards advocated by the council of europe, the specific rights of children and their protection. secondly, as you have mentioned, madam commissioner, the training of practitioners and all those who may come into contact with victims - officials, lawyers, persons responsible for helping victims - article 24 stresses the need for this general and specialised training, which is a good, concrete and realistic community step forward. finally, thirdly, it is essential that the network of reception facilities be developed so that each victim can find a place of listening and support close to home. this personalised support is fundamental in the european union because these victims are often alone and helpless in the face of such traumatic situations. we must take the necessary steps to inform and make the public aware of this new system.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome the final result of this text, which is aimed at taking better account of the vulnerability of victims - victims who too often, and rightly, feel that they are not sufficiently respected and, sometimes, that they are not as well supported as the perpetrators of the crimes themselves. it is a small step backwards, because we would all have liked to go further, to extend the list of vulnerable victims, but the council did not agree, citing financial cost, which is a complicated subject in this period of economic crisis. however, the principle of individual hearings for each victim remains, which should prevent any risk of discrimination in access to services. this is a major step forward which will make it possible to better define the rights and needs of victims throughout europe and to respond to them in the most appropriate way, taking into account the specific needs of each individual and, in particular, of women victims of violence. we must welcome these advances, as we must also welcome the work of the two rapporteurs on this dossier.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the two rapporteurs on this very good result. the compromise reached between the institutions has made real progress in terms of unifying the european territory for the benefit of particularly vulnerable people, the victims of crime. the directive will complement a series of measures taken at european level to promote free movement and the protection of victims of crime, such as the european protection order. we can be happy with the outcome of this trilogue, for example the definition of gender violence, even if it remains in the recital, instead of being in the articles. we also welcome the inclusion of all victims, regardless of their status, including their migration status. the most vulnerable people now have the right to protection and to having their needs taken into account in the european territory. we recognize the impact of crime not only on the victim but also on those close to him, especially children. despite these advances, i would like to stress the need to take account of violence against women as a social phenomenon in its own right and, like several of my colleagues, i invite the commission to work on a specific directive on this issue.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would simply like mr stoyanov to explain to us where the thousands of jobs that have been eliminated or that could potentially be eliminated are.
mr president, the 2006 reform was indeed aimed at improving the competitiveness of the beet sector in europe. this reform was made possible at the cost of considerable sacrifices in the human and territorial levels. factories have closed. whole areas had to abandon beet production. the sugar cane refiners are now asking for the suspension of sugar tariffs outside any trade negotiations. an increase in imports of cane sugar from other third countries would erode the preferences granted to our traditional developing partners and lead to a halt in investment in these countries. the sugar market in the european union is fully open. the delay in investment in the acp and ldc countries cannot in my view justify the refiners' demand to go over them. the acp countries with which i met as rapporteur for your assembly on the cmu in the reform of the cap explicitly asked me to keep the system in place today. our assembly, ladies and gentlemen, has already deliberated on several occasions, notably on the dess report in july 2011 and in resolution 2010/2110 voted in march 2011. yes, we must defend jobs. but under the pretext of defending a few dozen industrial jobs, should we accelerate the desertification of our territories by eliminating european producers? has not our parliament, over the past three years, repeatedly stated its desire to defend our food self-sufficiency and to encourage our agriculture as much as possible?
mr president, madam commissioner, in this debate on the sugar sector, i would like to draw your attention to the special situation of the outermost regions, which, as you know, would have been severely penalized by the 2005 reform if compensatory measures had not been implemented at national level. as you know, the sugar cane sector in these islands is particularly fragile and must be protected from the devastating effects that could be generated by the post-2013 reform and alignment with the rules desired by the wto. i therefore call on the european parliament, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the european commission to take account of the special situation of these outermost regions. on the island of réunion, there were 13 sugar factories before 1950; only two left today.
president of the commission. − mr president, president of the council, honourable members, it is an honour to stand before you today to deliver this third state of the union address, although at a time when the european union continues to be in crisis – a financial and economic crisis, a social crisis, but also a political crisis, a crisis of confidence. at its root, the crisis results from irresponsible practices in the financial sector, unsustainable public debt, and also a lack of competitiveness in some member states. on top of that, the euro faces structural problems of its own. its architecture has not been up to the job. imbalances have built up. this is now being corrected but it is a painful and difficult effort. citizens are frustrated. they are anxious. they feel their way of life is at risk. the sense of fairness and equity between member states is sometimes being eroded. without equity between member states, how can there be equity between european citizens? over the last four years, we have made bold decisions to tackle the systemic crisis. but despite all these efforts, our responses have not yet convinced citizens, markets or our international partners. why? because, time and again, we have allowed doubts to spread – doubts over whether some countries are really ready to reform and regain competitiveness, doubts over whether other countries are really willing to stand by each other so that the euro and the european project are irreversible. on too many occasions, we have seen a vicious spiral. first, very important decisions for our future are taken at european summits. but then, the next day, we see some of those very same people who took those decisions undermining them, saying either that they go too far or that they do not go far enough. then we get a problem of credibility and a problem of confidence. it is not acceptable to present these european meetings as if they were boxing events, claiming a knockout victory over a rival. we cannot belong to the same union and behave as if we do not. we cannot put at risk nine good decisions with one action or statement that raises doubts about all we have achieved. this reveals the essence of europe’s political crisis of confidence. if europe’s political actors do not abide by the rules and the decisions they have set themselves, how can they possibly convince others that they are determined to solve this crisis together? a crisis of confidence is a political crisis. the good thing is that in a democracy there is no political problem for which we cannot find a political solution. that is why, here today, i want to debate with you the fundamental political questions – where we are now and how we must move forward. i want to focus on the political direction and the vision that will inspire our policy decisions. of course i will not list all these individual decisions. you are receiving the letter i addressed to the president of the european parliament, and that sets out the commission’s immediate priorities. we will discuss them with you before adopting the commission work programme later in the autumn. my message to you today is this: europe needs a new direction. and that direction cannot be based on old ideas. europe needs a new way of thinking. when we speak about the crisis – and we are all speaking about the crisis – have we really drawn all the consequences for our action? when we speak about globalisation – and we all speak a lot about globalisation – have we really considered its impact on the role of each of our member states? the starting point for new thinking for europe is to really draw all the consequences of the challenges that we are facing and that are fundamentally changing our world. the starting point is to stop trying to answer the questions of the future with the tools of the past. since the start of the crisis, we have seen time and again that interconnected global markets are quicker and therefore more powerful than fragmented national political systems. this undermines the trust of citizens in political decision-making and it is fuelling populism and extremism in europe and elsewhere. the reality is that, in an interconnected world, europe’s member states on their own are no longer able to effectively steer the course of events. (applause) but, at the same time, they have not yet equipped their union – our union –with the instruments needed to cope with this new reality. we are now in a transition, in a defining moment. this moment requires decision and leadership. yes, globalisation demands more european unity. more unity demands more integration. more integration demands more democracy – european democracy. in europe, this means, first and foremost, accepting that we are all in the same boat. it means recognising the commonality of our european interests. it means embracing the interdependence of our destinies and it means demanding a true sense of common responsibility and solidarity because, when you are on a boat in the middle of the storm, absolute loyalty is the minimum you demand from your fellow crew members. this is the only way we will keep up with the pace of change. it is the only way we will get the scale and efficiency we need to be a global player. it is the only way to safeguard our values – because it is also a matter of values – in our changing world. in the 20th century, a country of just 10 or 15 million people could be a global power. in the 21st century, even the biggest european countries run the risk of irrelevance between global giants such as the us or china. history is accelerating. it took 155 years for britain to double its gdp per capita, 50 years for the united states, and just 15 years for china. but, if you look at some of our new member states, the economic transformation going on is no less impressive. europe has all the assets it takes – in fact much more so than previous generations faced with similar or even greater challenges. but we need to act accordingly and mobilise all these resources together. it is time to match ambitions, decisions, and actions. it is time to put a stop to piecemeal responses and muddling through. it is time to learn the lessons from history and write a better future for our europe. what i demand, and what i present to you today, is a decisive deal for europe – a decisive deal to project our values, our freedom and our prosperity into the future of a globalised world; a deal that combines the need to keep our social market economies on the one hand and the need to reform them on the other; a deal that will stabilise the emu, boost sustainable growth, and restore competitiveness; a deal that will establish a contract of confidence between our countries, between member states and the european institutions, between the social partners, and between the citizens and the european union. the decisive deal for europe means that we must leave no doubt about the integrity of the union or the irreversibility of the euro. the more vulnerable countries must leave no doubts about their willingness to reform and about their sense of responsibility. the stronger countries must leave no doubts about their willingness to stick together and about their sense of solidarity. (applause)we must all leave no doubts that we are determined to reform and to reform together. the idea that we can grow without reform or that we can prosper alone is simply false. we must recognise that we are in this together and we must resolve this together. this decisive deal requires the completion of a deep and genuine economic union, based on a political union. let me start with europe’s economy. firstly, we need growth, sustainable growth. growth is the lifeblood of the european social market model. it creates jobs and supports our standard of living. but we can only maintain growth if we are more competitive. at the national level it means undertaking structural reforms that have been postponed for decades – modernising public administration, reducing wasteful expenditure, tackling vested interests and privileges, reforming the labour market to balance security with flexibility and ensuring the sustainability of social systems. at the european level, we need to be more decisive about breaking down barriers, whether physical, economic or digital. we need to complete the single market. we need to reduce our energy dependence and tap the renewable energy potential. promoting competitiveness in sectors such as energy, transport or telecoms could open up fresh competition, promote innovation and drive down prices for consumers and businesses. the commission will shortly present a single market act ii. to enable the single market to prosper, the commission will continue to be firm and intransigent in the defence of its competition and trade rules. let me tell you frankly that, if this is left to the member states, they will not resist pressure from big corporations or large external powers. we need to create a european labour market and make it as easy for people to work in another country as it is at home. we need to explore green growth and be much more efficient in the use of resources. we have to be much more ambitious about education, research, innovation and science. europe is a world leader in key sectors such as aeronautics, automotives, pharmaceuticals and engineering, with global market shares above a third. industrial productivity increased by 35% over the last decade, despite the economic slowdown. today some 74 million jobs depend on manufacturing. every year start-up firms in the eu create over 4 million jobs. we need to build on this by investing in our new industrial policy and creating a business environment that encourages entrepreneurship and supports small businesses. this means making the taxation environment simpler for businesses and more attractive for investors. better tax coordination would benefit all member states. we also need a pro-active trade policy by opening up new markets. this is the potential of europe’s economy. this is the goldmine that is yet to be fully explored. fully implementing the growth compact agreed at the june european council can take us a long way. and we could go further with a realistic yet ambitious european union budget dedicated to investment, growth and reform. let us be clear: the european budget is the instrument for investment in europe and growth in europe. the commission and this parliament, indeed all pro-european forces – because most member states support our proposal – must now stand together in support of the right multiannual financial framework that will take us to 2020. it will place little burden on member states, especially with our proposed new own-resources system but it would give a great boost to their economies, their regions, their researchers, their students, their young people who seek employment, and their smes. it is a budget for growth. it is a budget for economic, social and territorial cohesion between member states and within member states. it is a budget that will help complete the single market by bridging gaps in our energy, transport and telecoms infrastructure through the connecting europe facility. it is a budget for a modern, growth-oriented agriculture capable of combining food security with sustainable rural development. it is a budget that will promote a research-intensive and innovative europe through horizon 2020 because we need this european scale for research. now we come, as a test of credibility, to many of our member states. i want to see if the same member states that were always speaking about the need for growth and investment for growth will now support the budget for growth at european level. (applause) this budget is also the tool to support europe 2020, our strategy for growth, which we need now more than ever before. europe 2020 is indeed the way to modernise and preserve the european social market economy. our agenda of structural reform requires a major adjustment effort. it will only work if it is fair and equitable because inequality is not sustainable. in some parts of europe we are seeing a real social emergency with rising poverty and massive levels of unemployment, especially among our young people. that is why we must strengthen social cohesion. it is a feature that distinguishes european society from alternative models. some say that because of the crisis the european social model is dead. i do not agree. yes, we need to reform our economies and modernise our social protection systems, but an effective social protection system that helps those in need is not an obstacle to prosperity. it is indeed an indispensable element of it. indeed, it is precisely those european countries with the most effective social protection systems and with the most developed social partnerships, that are among the most successful and competitive economies in the world. fairness and equity mean giving a chance to our young people. we are already doing a lot. before the end of the year the commission will launch a youth package that will establish a youth guarantee scheme and equality framework to facilitate vocational training. fairness and equity also mean creating better and fairer taxation systems. stopping tax fraud and tax evasion could put extra billions into the public purse across europe. this is why the commission will fight for an agreement on the revised savings tax directive and on mandates to negotiate stronger savings tax agreements with third countries. their completion would be a major source of legitimate tax revenues. the commission will continue to fight for a fair and ambitious financial transaction tax that will ensure that taxpayers benefit from the financial sector, not just that the financial sector benefits from taxpayers. now that it is clear that agreement on this can only happen through enhanced cooperation, the commission will do all it can to move this forward rapidly and effectively with those member states that are willing. this is about fairness. fairness is an essential condition for making the necessary economic reforms socially and politically acceptable and, above all, because fairness is a question of social justice. in the face of the crisis, important decisions have been taken. across the european union, reform and consolidation measures are being implemented. joint financial backstops are being put in place, and the european institutions have consistently shown that they stand by the euro. the commission is very aware that in the member states implementing the most intense reforms, there is hardship and there are – sometimes very painful – difficult adjustments, but it is only through these reforms that we can come to a better future. they were long overdue. going back to the status quo ante is simply impossible. the commission will continue to do all it can to support those member states and to help them boost growth and employment, for instance through the re-programming of structural funds. allow me to say a word on greece. i truly believe that we have a chance this autumn to come to the turning point. if greece banishes all doubts about its commitment to reform – but also if all the other countries banish all doubts about their determination to keep greece in the euro area – we can do it. i believe that if greece stands by its commitments it should stay in the euro area as a member of the european family. (applause) securing the stability of the euro area is our most urgent challenge. this is the joint responsibility of the member states and the community institutions. the ecb cannot, and will not, finance governments. but, when monetary policy channels are not working properly, the commission believes that it is within the mandate of the ecb to take the necessary actions, for instance in the secondary markets of sovereign debt. (applause)indeed, the ecb has not only the right but also the duty to restore the integrity of monetary policy. it is of course for the ecb, as an independent institution, to determine what actions to carry out and under what conditions. but all actors – and i really mean all actors – should respect the ecb’s independence. i have spoken about the economic policy measures that we must implement as a matter of urgency. this is indispensable. but it is not sufficient. we must go further. we must complete the economic and monetary union. we must create a banking union and a fiscal union and the corresponding institutional and political mechanisms. today, the commission is presenting legislative proposals for a single european supervisory mechanism for the euro zone. this is a stepping stone to banking union. the crisis has shown that, while banks became transnational, rules and oversight remained national. when things went wrong, it was the taxpayers who had to pick up the bill. over the past four years the eu has overhauled the rulebook for banks, leading the world in implementing the g20 commitments. but mere coordination is no longer adequate – we need to move to common supervisory decisions, namely within the euro area. the single supervisory mechanism proposed today will create a reinforced architecture, with a core role for the european central bank, and appropriate articulation with the european banking authority, which will restore confidence in the supervision of the banks in the euro area. it will be a supervision for all euro area banks. supervision must be able to look everywhere because systemic risks can be anywhere, not just in so-called systemically relevant banks. of course, this is in a system that fully engages the national supervisors. the package comprises two legal texts – one on the ecb and the other on the eba – which go together. it is clear that parliament will have a crucial role to play in the adoption of the new mechanism, and after that in its democratic oversight. this is a crucial first step towards the banking union i proposed before this house in june. getting the european supervisor in place is the top priority for now because it is the precondition for the better management of banking crises, from banking resolution to deposit insurance. in parallel the commission will continue to work on the reform of the banking sector, to make sure it plays its role in the responsible financing of the real economy. that means improving long-term financing for smes and other companies. it means rules on reference indices, so that we do not again see the manipulation of bank interest rates affecting companies and mortgage holders alike. it means legislation to ensure that banks give a fair deal to consumers and another look at the structure of banking activities to eliminate inherent risks. in all of this, the role of this parliament is essential. the commission endeavours to work in close partnership with you. but there is a second element of a deeper economic union. it is the move towards a fiscal union. the case for it is clear: the economic decisions of one member state impact on the others, so we need stronger economic policy coordination. we need a stronger and more binding framework for the national decision-making for key economic policies, as the only way to prevent imbalances. while much has been done here – for instance through the six pack and through the country-specific recommendations – further steps are crucial to combine specific conditions with specific incentives and to really make the economic and monetary union sustainable. to deliver lasting results, we need to develop a fully equipped community economic governance, together with a genuine, credible community fiscal capacity. we do not need separate institutions or to create new institutions for that, quite the contrary. for this to be effective and quick, the best way is to work with and through the existing institutions: the european commission as the independent european authority, overseen by the european parliament as the parliamentary representation at european level. it is in such a framework that, over time, steps for genuine mutualisation of debt redemption and debt issuance can take their place. so economic reform coupled with a genuine economic and monetary union are the engines to get our boat moving forward. the commission will publish a blueprint for deepening the economic and monetary union, already this autumn. this blueprint will be presented to this house because these questions must be discussed with and by the representatives of the people. at the same time, it will inform the debate at the december european council that will be prepared by the report that the president of the european council, i myself and the presidents of the european central bank and the euro group have been asked to present. our blueprint will identify the tools and instruments and present options for legal drafting that will give effect to them, from policy coordination to fiscal capacity to debt redemption. where necessary – as in the case of jointly and severally guaranteed public debt – it will identify the treaty changes necessary because some of these changes require modifications in the treaty. it will present a blueprint for what we need to accomplish, not only in the next few weeks and months but also in the next years. ultimately, the credibility and sustainability of economic and monetary union – the credibility of our currency, the euro – depends on the institutions and the political construct behind it. this is why the economic and monetary union raises the question of a political union and the european democracy that must underpin it. if we want economic and monetary union to succeed, we need to combine ambition and proper sequencing. we need to take concrete steps now, but with a political union as the horizon. i would like to see the development of a european public space, where european issues are discussed and debated from a european standpoint. we cannot continue trying to solve european problems just with national solutions. this debate has to take place in our societies and among our citizens. but today i would also like to make an appeal to european thinkers, to men and women of culture, to join this debate on the future of europe. we need them. i also make this appeal to you. this is the house of european democracy. we must strengthen the role of the european parliament at european level. we need to promote genuine complementarity and cooperation between the european and national parliaments. this also cannot be done without strengthened european political parties. indeed, we very often have a real disconnect between political parties in the capitals and the european political parties here in strasbourg. this is why we have to recognise that the political debate is cast all too often as if it were just between national parties. even in the european elections we do not see the name of the european political parties in the ballot box. we see a national discussion between national parties. this is why we need a better statute for european political parties. i am proud to announce that the commission has adopted a proposal for this today. an important means to deepen the pan-european political debate would be the presentation by european political parties of their candidate for the post of commission president at the european parliament elections in 2014. this can be done without a treaty change and would be a decisive step to make the possibility of a european choice offered by these elections even clearer. i call on the political parties to commit to this step and thus to further europeanise the european elections. (applause) a true political european union means we must concentrate european action on the real issues that matter and must be dealt with at european level. let us be frank about this. not everything can be a priority at the same time. we need to be more selective and here some self-criticism will probably apply. proper integration is about taking a fresh look at where the most appropriate level of action is. subsidiarity is an essential democratic concept and should be practised. a political union also means that we must strengthen the foundations on which our union is built: respect for our fundamental values, for the rule of law and democracy. in recent months we have seen threats to the legal and democratic fabric in some of our european states. the european parliament and the commission were the first to raise the alarm and played the decisive role in seeing these worrying developments brought into check. but these situations also revealed the limits of our institutional arrangements. we need a better developed set of instruments – not just the alternative between the ‘soft power’ of political persuasion and the ‘nuclear option’ of article 7 of the treaty. our commitment to upholding the rule of law is also behind our intention to establish a european public prosecutor’s office, as foreseen by the treaties. we will make a proposal soon. a political union also means doing more to fulfil our global role. sharing sovereignty in europe means being more sovereign in a global world. in today’s world, size matters and values make the difference. that is why europe’s message must be one of freedom, of democracy, of the rule of law and of solidarity. in short, our values, the european values. more than ever our citizens and the new world order need an active and influential europe, not just for us here in europe. it is important for the rest of the world that we succeed. a europe that stands by its values and a europe that stands up for its belief that human rights are not a luxury for the developed world but should be seen as universal values. the appalling situation in syria reminds us that we cannot afford to be bystanders. a new and democratic syria must emerge. we have a joint responsibility to make this happen and to work with those in the global order who also need to give their cooperation towards that goal. the world also needs an eu that keeps its leadership of development and humanitarian assistance, that stands by open economies and fights protectionism and that leads the fight against climate change. the world needs a europe that is capable of deploying military missions to help stabilise the situation in crisis areas. we need to launch a comprehensive review of european capabilities and begin truly collective defence planning. yes, we need to enforce our common foreign and security policy and to have a common approach to defence matters because together we have the power and the scale to shape the world into a fairer, rules-based and human-rights-abiding place. a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, a political union with a coherent foreign and defence policy, means ultimately that the present european union must evolve. let us not be afraid of the word: we will need to move towards a federation of nation states. this is our political horizon. this is what must guide our work in the years to come. today, i call for a federation of nation states. not a superstate. a democratic federation of nation states that can tackle our common problems, through the sharing of sovereignty in such a way that each country and its citizens are better equipped to control their own destiny. this is about union with the member states, not against the member states. in the age of globalisation pooled sovereignty means more power, not less. i said a federation of nation states on purpose because i think that, in these turbulent times, in these times of uncertainty, it would be a real mistake to leave the defence of the nation just to the nationalists and populists. i believe in a europe where people are proud of their nations but also proud to be european and proud of our european values. creating this federation of nation states will ultimately require a new treaty. i do not say this lightly. we are all aware how difficult treaty change has become. it has to be well prepared. discussions on treaty change must not distract or delay us from doing what can and must already be done today. a deep and genuine economic and monetary union can be started under the current treaties, but can only be completed with changes in the treaties. so let us start it now but let us have the horizon for this future present in our decisions of today. we must not begin with treaty change. we must identify the policies we need and the instruments to implement them. only then can we decide on the tools that we lack and the ways to remedy this. then there must be a broad debate all over europe. a debate that must take place before a convention and an igc are called. a debate of a truly european dimension. the times of european integration by implicit consent of citizens are over. europe cannot be technocratic, bureaucratic or even diplomatic. europe has to be ever more democratic and the role of the european parliament for this is essential. that is why the european elections in 2014 can be so decisive. before the next european parliament elections in 2014, the commission will present its outline for the shape of the future european union. we will put forward explicit ideas for treaty change in time for a true european debate. we will set out the objectives to be pursued, the way in which the institutions that can make the european union more open and democratic, the powers and instruments to make it more effective, and the model to make it a union for the peoples of europe. i believe we need a real debate and in democracy the best way to debate is to debate our future and our goals in the elections at european level. this is not just a debate for the euro area in its present membership. let me be very clear. in europe we need no more walls dividing us because the european union is stronger as a whole in keeping the integrity of its single market, its membership and in its institutions. no one will be forced to come along and no one will be forced to stay out but the speed will not be dictated by the slowest or the most reluctant. this is why our proposals will be based on the existing union and its institutions – on the community method. let us be clear – there is only one european union, one european commission, one european parliament. more democracy, more transparency, more accountability, is not created by a proliferation of institutions that would render the european union more complicated, more difficult to read, less coherent and less capable of acting. this is the magnitude of the decisions that we will need to make over time. that is why i believe we need a serious discussion between the citizens of europe about the way forward – and also about the possible consequences of fragmentation, because sometimes through unintended consequences we get fragmentation that we do not want – but also about what we could achieve if leaders avoid national provincialism: what we can achieve together. we must use the 2014 election to mobilise all pro-european forces. we must not allow the populists and the nationalists to set a negative agenda. i expect all those who call themselves europeans to stand up and to take the initiative in this debate. because even more dangerous than the scepticism of the anti-europeans is the indifference or the pessimism of the pro-europeans. to sum up, what we need is a decisive deal to complete the emu, based on a political commitment to a stronger european union. the sequence i put before you is clear. we should start by doing all we can to stabilise the euro and accelerate growth in the eu as a whole. the commission will present all the necessary proposals – we have started today with the single supervisor – to create a banking union, in line with current treaty provisions. secondly, we will present our blueprint on a deep and genuine economic and monetary union, including the political instruments. this will be done this autumn. we will present here again all proposals in line with the current treaty provisions. thirdly, where we cannot move forward under the existing treaties, we will present explicit proposals for the necessary treaty changes ahead of the next european parliamentary election in 2014, including elements for reinforced democracy and accountability. this is our project, a project that is step by step but with a big ambition for the future, with a federation as the horizon for europe. i am sure that many will say that this is too ambitious and that it is not realistic. but i want to leave you with some questions. let me ask you – is it realistic to go on as we have been doing? is it realistic to see what we are seeing today in many european countries? is it realistic to see taxpayers paying banks and afterwards being forced to give banks back the houses they have paid for because they cannot pay their mortgages? is it realistic to see more than 50% of our young people without jobs in some of our member states? is it realistic to go on trying to muddle through, just trying to accommodate mistakes with unconvincing responses? is it realistic to think that we can win the confidence of markets when sometimes we show so little confidence in each other? to me, it is this reality that is not realistic. this reality cannot go on. the realistic way forward is the way that makes us stronger and more united. realism is to put our ambition at the level of our challenges. realism is to tell our youth that, yes, there is hope if we stick together. if there is a bias in our analysis, let it be a bias for hope. we should be proud to be europeans, proud of our rich and diverse culture. in spite of our current problems, our societies are among the most human and free in the world. we do not have to apologise for our democracy or for our social market economy or for our values. (applause)with high levels of social cohesion, respect for human rights and human dignity, equality between men and women, respect for our environment – these european societies, with all their problems, are among the most decent societies in human history. i think we should be proud of them. in our countries two or three girls do not go to prison because they sing songs criticising the leader of their country. in our countries people are free and proud of that freedom and people understand what it means to live in freedom. in many of our countries, namely the most recent member states, there is a recent memory of what was dictatorship and totalitarianism. previous generations have overcome much bigger challenges. now it is for this generation to show they are up to the task. now is the moment for all europeans to leave business as usual behind and to embrace the business of the future. the european union was built to guarantee peace but today this means making our union fit to meet the challenges of globalisation. that is why we need a new thinking for europe, a decisive deal for europe. that is why we need to guide ourselves by the values that are at the heart of the european union. i believe that europe has a soul and this soul can give us the strength and the determination to do what we must do. you can count on the european commission. i count on you, the european parliament, because together, as community institutions, we will build a better, stronger and a more united europe, a citizens’ union for the future of europe and also for the future of the world. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank josé manuel barroso for his speech, his statement, his analysis and his realism. it is the beginning of the school year and, as every year, we are meeting for this double exercise: to take stock of the last twelve months and to debate the future of the european union. today, i think we're going in the right direction. this means that we must continue to move towards greater european integration. more concrete reforms are also needed. dear friends, we have been talking about the crisis for three years now. we know that for too long we have lived beyond our means, that we need more discipline and a return to budgetary balance. this is the only way we can invest in future generations. we know the solutions to get out of the crisis. economically, what we've done in the last three years, we've done too slowly, and it's cost us billions. the need for european solutions is obvious in the economic governance package, the euro+ pact, the european semester, the single market act and in certain sectors, for example banking. banks are no longer national, but transnational. a bank that fails can lead to the failure of the whole system. that is why my group supports your proposal to set up a single supervisor in the banking sector. dear friends, we know that our solutions are positive; we have examples to prove it. you made me think - i didn't put it on my paper - that there are also positive examples. i think that the most reformist governments in europe also belong to our political family. i'm thinking about our friend dombrovskis. even though it is a small country that was in a deep crisis, it has come out of it and has grown up to its name. here too, i think, he is setting an example, and he has achieved this without relying too much on european solidarity. in his speeches he stressed that the only money he had to invest in the depth of the crisis was the money he had from the european budget. i think we should think about this because, unlike some, we have seen the seriousness of the situation. we know that our economies are not doing well and that to recover we need a comprehensive treatment. it starts with a change in habits. we need reforms, not reform boxes! yes, it's difficult, but we have no choice. for these reforms to succeed, competitiveness and growth must also be promoted. my group supports the governments which are taking this approach. i would also like to emphasize another point. european solidarity should not be confused with charity. that is why i support the european central bank's proposal to buy bonds, because a state which benefits from this solidarity must be responsible. without a reform programme with credible proposals, a state cannot receive this aid. this is the right approach. it is a european approach and by strengthening the states in difficulty, we are strengthening europe as a whole. i repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that 20 years after the single market was set up, we have not yet completed it. i would like to make a further appeal to you, mr barroso. it is urgent to put in place an action plan with specific deadlines to complete the work started. internal market rules must be simple, applied uniformly and transposed as a single package. one example: because of bureaucratic barriers, the 23 million smes in europe do not yet have access to all the 27 markets. i would remind you that one job created in each of the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises - do the math - is not insignificant. that is why my group has called for a reduction in red tape by 2015. at least 50% less paper than trees saved for the environment! in doing so, we are giving european businesses the opportunity to create jobs. the commission must play its full part and not hesitate to enforce the legislation. publish the lists of states which have not yet transposed the directives and enforce them. use your power! governments regularly question us europeans. we are the cause of everything! so let them take their responsibility too! i ask you, mr president, to define new, concrete areas where the european institutions should intervene. i am convinced that there is a very simple remedy to the crisis we are going through: more europe, more europe and always europe! we need tax and social harmonization. our common policies and actions are successful. i will take an example that will probably surprise you: agricultural policy. it is a genuine common policy which has made it possible to guarantee food security - you have mentioned it - in periods of considerable fluctuation. it has also lifted entire regions out of poverty. this policy must remain european. above all, let us not do what many are calling for today: renationalization. that would be a disaster. it is a european policy that has succeeded, it must remain european! another example is unemployment, especially among young people. no country can solve this problem on its own. even if this is a national competence, it is time to find a european solution. i am thinking again of this additional employment in each of the 23 million smes. everyone may smile, but i am not: 23 million additional jobs with a european youth employment policy, that should make you think. ladies and gentlemen, as you said, mr president, we are going through an unprecedented storm. some in europe and elsewhere would be too happy to see the euro collapse. i personally don't want to give them that pleasure, and neither do you, my dear josé manuel. why do rating agencies prefer to attack the euro, rather than the country they know best and where they are based? they don't do the same tests. i know why, but on the one hand, it's not normal. we must face this storm, not by filling our dikes, but by strengthening our foundations. let's not repeat the mistakes of the past. it is unthinkable to create an economic union without the political union that goes with it. it's about our credibility. mr president, let us show some european ambition. europe is taking decisions that affect 500 million europeans. these decisions must be subject to democratic control by the only institution elected by direct universal suffrage. the place of democratic legitimacy is here in parliament, and i thank president schulz for putting things back in the centre. we are democratically elected. so i think we should be recognized democratically. the so-called 'four-chair' proposal for a genuine economic and monetary union is ambitious - we also need to participate at parliament level - but it should be even more ambitious. focusing only on economic reforms is a wrong way to go because the economic crisis has become a political crisis, a crisis of confidence and you reminded me of that very well at the end. now, i agree with a change in the treaty in the medium and long term, but that is not the solution we need in the immediate future. we simply need, because i am french, an internal regulation to be applied in tax and social policy, which will be included in the treaty when we have time to think it over. now we must act! i was struck by the latest eurobarometer. it shows that for a majority of europeans europe is a good thing, but in many member states our citizens increasingly do not feel european. it is our duty - and you said it - to explain the added value, but it is also the duty of all national leaders. i think a good politician is like a good doctor. both must explain, both must tell the truth, both must convince, even if it is not pleasant to hear! we must discuss the next steps in our integration with this reality in mind. ladies and gentlemen, i call for more europe, not more power for the sake of power. we must build a europe that can meet the challenges of the 21st century. we therefore call for the union's 2014-2020 budget to have a credible, sound and ambitious financial framework, as prepared by the commission and parliament. here too, the political responsibility of the heads of state and government is engaged and will show our citizens whether we want more of europe. the european budget is not an expenditure budget but an investment budget. it is a budget for the future, a budget for growth. let's be serious and ambitious. i call on all those responsible to find a solution by the end of the year. ladies and gentlemen, today judges are ruling on the democratic legitimacy of european decisions. in this parliament we are advocates of democratic control at european level. and we must also have the courage to appeal to our court of justice in luxembourg if we feel that our rights are not being respected. we must go much further before the court, as others do, and i am sure that will also strengthen parliament. that is why we need a genuine political europe. a europe where the european parliament is the only direct representative of the citizens of europe. if we miss this meeting, we're headed for failure. political union means legitimacy, more democratic control and greater citizen participation. this is the europe i believe in. these are the values we uphold in our group. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by making a preliminary remark. mr barroso, when you speak of crisis, do not forget the ecological crisis, the environmental constraints, which you did not mention in the description of crises today. we are facing a polycrisis, several crises, and the ecological crisis is one of the most important crises, along with the financial and economic crisis and the democratic crisis. if you're going to make a speech, add that. secondly, mr barroso, you said: 'we need new thinking, we need new direction'. yes, but if we are to take a new direction, we need something - a compass! in what direction do we want to go? this is where the debate between philippe and guy is interesting, because indeed, we have to be a little sincere. i agree with guy when he says that the council, the governments, have not been able to respond to the crisis. they were wolfing. we're going to help greece, a little, a lot, not at all, passionately, to the point of madness... we never knew what the governments' position really was. we still don't know that. so it is true that the council is incapable of acting. but, guy, there is also an incapacity of this parliament, there is also an incapacity of the european institutions. when this parliament has not been able to adopt the drawing up of transnational lists for the next elections, it shows that it is not up to the debate we need. so let's go back to the compass. i am convinced that today the federalisation of europe is a necessity. i do not agree with what you have taken from jacques delors, the federation of nation states. yes, we need a post-national europe that is not just a federation of states. that is what we need in europe. of course, the states will play an important role in european legislation in a senate, in a second chamber, but what is unacceptable today is that we have a council which is both executive and legislative. it's not possible anymore. montesquieu is turning in his grave! a legislator cannot be an executive and an executive cannot be a legislator. we must denounce this, otherwise we will not progress. you have spoken of the budget, mr barroso. you're right, but let's be honest. let us take up our compass again to keep the federalist course. i would like to give some information to those who do not know this in this parliament. when the us federal budget was created in 1932, by roosevelt, it was 1% of us gdp. in 1945, it was 7 per cent of gdp. in 2012, it is 23% of gdp. as long as the european budget represents only 1% of european gdp, we will not be able to have a european social policy worthy of the name. this can't work! this means that over the next five years the european budget should grow from 1% to 5% of the european gross domestic product. that is the real debate we need to have with the nation states. this increase must be made from own resources. we shall not be able to build europe by means of national contributions, which are the embodiment of the organization of national egoisms! i'd like to say something very simple. you have spoken, mr barroso, of flexicurity. of course, it is right: flexibility in the labour market under safe conditions for those who work. take a country like greece, where the unemployment rate is at an incredible level. do you think that if we organize today a flexible labour market as we want to impose it, this country will be able to pay for security? if we want flexi-security for some poor countries today, whether greece, spain, italy or other countries in a serious unemployment crisis, we will have to have security aid from the european budget. otherwise, we won't make it, and they won't make it. if you want to have a real social pact, if you want europe to have the means to help certain states which cannot provide security, as the united states can do with its budget, well, with 1%, even with the commission's proposal, we will not succeed. so the compass today, the federalisation of europe, is this: a social cushion fund for greece, today and immediately. let's tell the truth to greece! the truth is, you can still make adjustment policy, but that's over. let's be honest and open. of course we need an extension of time for greece, of course we need to give money to that country. a woman who works part-time in a supermarket in greece earns 150 euros. it's not possible, it's not possible anymore. i would like to say something to you, ladies and gentlemen: the greek far right is going door to door today, giving 20 or 30 euros to families. when you make 150 euros, 20 or 30 is a lot. the far right is doing in greece what the islamists are doing in other countries. is the european union not capable, in this crisis situation, of also giving a social fund to cushion the crisis in a country like greece so that greek citizens can return to europe and not go to the extreme right? look at the fascism of greek society! i'm finished. the compass is very simple: more possibilities for intervention by the european union, a european budget worthy of the name, a social fund for the crisis in the european countries in crisis. with this and the proposals made by guy and joseph, we will be able to bring the majority of european citizens back to europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – lord dartmouth, why cannot you understand that the time of the earls is over? they are not the solution for democracy; cannot you understand this? in 30 years’ time none of the european nation states, neither great britain nor germany, will be part of the g8. cannot you understand that this time is over? you can write poems about it, i am sad about it, i understand that the earl is sad about it, but it is the cruel reality of the modern world. cannot you not understand the modern world? (loud applause)
mr president, i regret that the heads of state are not here. i am not against you, mr minister for european affairs, but we have no head of state, not even their representative, president van rompuy. where is mrs ashton, who is participating in the european council? yes, we need a long-term federation of nation states, mr president of the european commission, and we support you on this point. but do not forget the europe of results. first, the europe of results! we need to keep an eye on our banks, our major infrastructure, our fiscal savings, our diplomacy, our defense. i would like to draw your attention to social convergence. look at the former communist countries. they have not been members of the union for eight days but for eight years! the minimum wage is 200 euros. we should be ashamed of ourselves! we have the necessary legal bases - articles 154 and 155 of the treaty - and through social negotiation we should achieve a wage increase. yes, we must go to a federation of nations. but let us not confuse speed with haste! if we hold 27 referendums, we will have between 25 and 26 "no's". let 's not rush into this . we will not move towards a political europe without democracy. and let us consider the suffering of the people!
mr president, mr president of the commission, i believe that the state of the union, for us members, is the state of europeans. europeans are being plagued by three risks: financial, health and employment. i wish i could hear you on the protection of people's savings. i would have liked to see more ambition on the question of industrial rearmament through energy, the environment and digital technology. then i would have liked you to be lucid, too. if we want to get out of the crisis, we need a timetable that is adapted to the effort of the member states and the citizens. i would like to say that there is no democratic progress without social rights, and as some have said, the social dimension is not yet there. we need guarantees in terms of employment, in terms of non-aggression of the european social model and guarantees in terms of the financial and fiscal effort of all those who elected us and who want to regain confidence in the european union.
president of the commission. − mr president, i wanted first of all to listen to all the members of this parliament before having the possibility to respond – and i will also be more than happy to hold more specific discussions afterwards with the group leaders – but i think it was important to hear the contributions from all the members of parliament who wanted to take the floor at this stage. let me first underline that i saw, of course, different positions in this debate – some criticisms, some comments – but i think i can see, at least from the most relevant pro-european forces, strong support for the agenda i have put forward: an agenda which combines ambition with realism. ambition is very important but so is the way we deliver on that ambition. ambitions without results are simply good intentions, and sometimes i have the impression that in europe we are full of good intentions but with not enough results. this is why we need to have this vision, the vision of a medium-term, longer-term, european union that is a federal path – and i hope that we will not engage now in semantic discussions about how exactly to qualify it. it is a federal path and it is ambitious, but at the same time we need to respond to issues which are extremely serious and urgent now, even before we get the – in some cases necessary – revision of the current treaties. so this is our way and this is the way the commission will pursue with determination. this is the only realistic way to achieve progress in europe, and those people who pretend that the status quo is enough or those people who pretend that everything will change tomorrow are not in fact serious about what has to be done for europe. i cannot resist recalling something that a predecessor of mine, jacques delors, once said in french – it was good advice :"méfie-toi des excités!" ‘beware of the over-excited’. we need to have ambition but at the same time every step must be taken with our feet firmly on the ground – and not forgetting one thing: that we are accountable to the european citizens of europe and we have to have them with us. that is why one of the most important messages that i believe i brought you today was: how can we complete european democracy? what can we do? not against our countries, because our countries are still the most important political reference for most of our citizens, but what can we do with our countries to show that they will only count in the world if they accept a much stronger union; that on their own they will not have the leverage or the capacity to talk on an equal footing with the americans or the chinese or other powers; but that yes, together in europe, we can do this and we can make a difference. that, precisely, is the message i brought you today. a message where we work with our countries, not for the sake of nationalism, but in fact to win the battle against the nationalists or the extreme populists, to have a democratic federation of countries, a federation of citizens naturally, a union for the citizens of europe. this is the message i brought you today and this is the only way to go forward if we want to achieve results. if you read my speech last year, at that time some of the ideas were not given much consideration, but one year later we have seen that the governments – and i believe most political forces – have finally agreed. i proposed the redirection of central funds. i proposed the refinancing of the eib, i proposed the creation of project funds – there was no consensus for all these ideas at that time, now they are agreed on. it was also the commission that proposed some time ago the creation of a strong backstop. at that time we proposed eur 440 billion. it was rejected by some. it was not considered realistic; now we have it and today – it was about time – we have had the decision of the constitutional court of germany. this shows that what is not agreed to today will become a consensus tomorrow, and our duty here as european institutions is precisely to build on this consensus, to show ambition but at the same time to do so with realism. this is the way to achieve those steps. i was asked some specific questions, particularly on the banking union, which i think are very important. one was about doing this or not with the central bank. fourteen out of the 17 national supervisors in the euro area today are already the central banks, and the uk is now in fact moving to place these tasks with the bank of england, so there is not one single model in the european union and the euro area. what matters is the quality and credibility of the supervision. but let us be frank. do we want to delay or do we want a solution? we have agreed, and it was a commission proposal, to do this around the european central bank because this is a well-established european institution, a federal institution in the euro area. of course we will do this ensuring a separation between the monetary functions and the future supervisory function. our model offers all the guarantees that one could ask for – the independence of monetary policy – but what we need is a credible supervisor that can break free from the national capture of national supervisors and do so quickly. that is why the ecb is by far the best placed for this. once again, if we now start to change this, there will be delay. delaying the solutions is probably in the interests of some people, but it is certainly not in the interest of the european commission. we want to have a single supervisor for the euro area as soon as possible. this is why we have put forward a proposal that, in fact, also addresses other matters like the relationship between euro and non-euro area members. the single supervisory mechanism will strengthen the single market. the proposal is designed so as not to create any walls in the single market. the ecb will apply the single rule book, the substantive rules on bank capital requirements and so on which are agreed by all 27 member states. more effective and consistent application is good for the stability and safety of all. the non-euro area member states should be able to take part. the proposal is as open as possible. those outside the euro area can take part through a close cooperation arrangement. we have gone as far as possible within, of course, the current treaty legal limits and there are lots of other safeguards. the decisions on supervision of cross-border banks will continue to be made in colleges of supervisors in which host member states will still have their full say even where the ecb is the home supervisor, and the european banking authority will keep all its powers to solve disputes and uphold single market rules including vis-à-vis the ecb. this is all to show you that no-one is more committed than the commission to the idea of a union, to the integrity of the european union, and yes, to the principle of non-discrimination between member states, article 4. when prime minister i was one of those fighting for the principle of equality between all our member states to be recognised. of course there are different economic dimensions, different demographic dimensions, but as regards the law all the member states have exactly the same dignity and we should strive for a unity based on these principles. some of the points made concerned growth and social matters. first of all, growth. we have to be very honest about this. the biggest problem we have with growth in europe is the lack of competitiveness that has been accumulated in some of our member states and we need to bring in reforms for that competitiveness. there are difficult, more urgent, problems, such as the lack of financing for the economy. some of our countries in fact are making impressive – impressive – efforts of adjustment. what greece has achieved is sometimes not sufficiently recognised – or ireland or portugal. an impressive adjustment, but what is their problem? they also have a problem in financing the economy precisely because the sovereign debt problems contaminated the banks’ problems. so we should not forget what lay at the origin of this crisis and the origin of this crisis, i have to say to the eurosceptics: no, it was not the euro. britain has put in more taxpayers’ money to save the banks than any country in europe. iceland is not a member of the euro or the european union, so it was not the euro which created the problem; it was the irresponsible behaviour of the financial sectors in many areas of the world, including the united states. (applause)this was the crux of the problem, and let me tell you that sadly we can see that some people in the financial sector have learnt nothing. after what happened we continued to receive reports of rigging with libor, manipulating the interest rates. we have seen banks in the united states that are financing iran contrary to all the legislation of the united states. we have seen banks from britain financing drug smuggling in mexico. we continue to see some intolerable practices in the financial sector. this was part of the problem and that is why we need to regulate and to have credible supervision in the financial sector as well. but this was not the whole cause of the problem. there was also unsustainable debt created by our governments; this is the reality. i am sorry, some people prefer to hear just some part of the reality, but we have to look at the reality in full. that is why we need to see how we came here. we came to this situation because the financial markets did not behave properly and that was the responsibility not of the european union but of the national supervisors. the european union at that time had no responsibility at all in terms of national supervision. we are now creating, we are now establishing, the first elements of this european supervision. the problems of the debt were also created because some member states did not respect the stability and growth pact which they themselves had signed. when there is no respect for the rules, naturally there are problems of credibility. so i think it is fair to say that europe’s current problems were not created by the european union for the member states, they were much more created by the member states for the european union and this is the reality of what we have today. (applause)but now of course we have to see how to get out of this situation, and to get out of this situation requires proper financial supervision and regulation. addressing the problems of deficit is also required, and so member states which are under this pressure should continue with consultation measures and also with stricter reforms because there is an underlying problem of lack of comparison in some of our member states. it is not easy; there will not be a magic solution; it will require time, determination, persistence, coherence. i know that populists manipulate feelings and anger; they can offer a very simple solution. the solution is ‘no’. saying ‘no’ is easy; saying ‘no’ to europe is easy. what is difficult, and that requires leadership, is to say ‘yes’ but while saying ‘how can we move forward?’ and that is why i am asking you to bring about the conditions for a true european debate with a true european democracy. and i am giving the signal for the next european elections because i believe in democracy. i was elected to my parliament in portugal when i was just twenty-nine years old. mr farage, do not look at me like that because in fact i really have a great admiration for the wisdom of the british people. every time you have tried to be elected in britain you were rejected; that is why you came here. it shows that the british people know that it is much better to keep you away from your own system. (applause)every time i ran for election in my country i was elected. i was leader of the opposition, i was prime minister and to be president of the commission i received the support of this european parliament. but i think we have to go forward. i think we need to go for the next elections with all the relevant political parties – not you, frankly – but with all the relevant political parties to present a candidate for the commission president and to have a truly political debate. today we adopted formally a new regulation for european political parties and i am calling not only on citizens, not only on you, but also on the best forces in europe to engage in this debate on what we can do. then i want to appeal to my pro-european, including federalist, friends. frankly, sometimes i believe we waste too much time and energy criticising secondary issues. i think we have to unite the pro-european forces with regard to the future of europe. a future that, yes, is to keep the social market economy. the social market economy is in the treaty of lisbon, it is not an invention. but at the same time to prepare the european consensus to reform those economies that will become more competitive. that is why european democracy is important. there are some people who say democracy cannot be transnational and can only be national because it is based on national parliaments. i am sorry, but those who say that have not understood that we are already in the 21st century. in the 21st century we have transnational phenomena like the financial markets, and if we do not have transnational mechanisms to deal with them, the peoples, the citizens, will not have the leverage to regulate them and to have their say. that is why we also need at european level a european democracy, and a european democracy that is not built against our national democracies but to complement them, to coordinate, and that basis for european democracy is precisely this parliament. that is what i am telling you. i am telling you that the commission is ready to engage in this parliament and that we are going to put proposals forward before the next european elections so that we can have a real european debate, one where the political forces that are for europe can say why they are for europe and those who are against should also say why they are against europe. what annoys me today, to be very honest with you, and which we have to recognise, is that in many of our countries those who are taking the lead in the european debate are the anti-europeans, the eurosceptics, the populists, the extreme nationalists. that is why we have to provoke the pro-european forces, if necessary by making a positive, constructive clean break with them, to ask them to come and say what the consequences of not having this europe will be. because many of the young people around europe do not remember when a great part of europe was under totalitarian communism or when there was no democracy in the south of europe. they do not remember the times of non-freedom of movement – so we need to make the case for europe, and to do that we need the pro-european forces from the left, the right and the centre to come and fight for that ideal: to explain it, to take the initiative and not be always on the defensive. i think this is what we can do for the next european elections and that is why the european commission will come with proposals which will enable us to leave our comfort zone and sometimes see some of the governments of europe giving up to those extremist forces because they believe that in that way they will keep some of the votes. that is a very important point i want to make to you because some of us, instead of trying to attack each other, would be making a much better use of our time if we could try to convince not only the parties here in strasbourg, but also the parties back home in the capitals, to say the same thing they say here in strasbourg. the reality is that very often we hear the parties saying one thing here and we know very well that when the same parties are in the governments back home, they say a very different, if not a completely contradictory, thing. this is why we need to build a true public space in europe with a true european democracy, with true european parties and true european institutions, not working against our member states but working for a union that goes beyond the member states and that gives each member state and our citizens the capacity to defend our interests and our values in the global world.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i will be very brief. thank you for that european speech. dear josé manuel, you will make the same speech to the council next time and i agree with you 100%.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to make two observations. the european model of the welfare state: there is no welfare state in greece, it does not exist at the moment. if we want a model welfare state, the european union must set up a social fund to restart a welfare state in greece. you just have to see it that way. you can't keep moving forward. if you have no work in greece today, you have no support at all. is that understood? the european model of the welfare state can only be developed further if we help it to be reborn in the countries where it no longer exists. you'd better get that into your heads. secondly, mrs reding, we support your initiative - and i hope the whole commission and all the men do too - to promote, as we say in german, gender balance in the workplace, etc. and if you would pass on this initiative in a letter to your dear mr juncker and also to the board of the european central bank, that would be really good news. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is not a dispute about the prospects for europe. i have a dream that when decisions are taken on the european stability mechanism and the problems that will arise, all europe will look not to karlsruhe but to the european court of justice, because that is where the decisions have to be made. i think that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i'm not going to. politics is a matter for parliaments. and if we go to court more often, it becomes a matter for the technocrats. this is not good. the legalization of politics is also a rejection of politics.
in writing. despite the artifice of a 'state of the union address', we are not yet the united states of europe you dream of. the results will require you to come up with arguments and plans that are much more convincing in order to try to establish any democratic legitimacy. your only message, despite the evidence, is that of an ultra-liberal and globalist 'more and more europe', while continuing to subject us to an increasingly speculative and thoughtless international financial caste. in addition to destroying the social advances that our peoples have made in the course of centuries of hard struggle, the euro and federalism are a sacrificial religion that stifles farmers, artisans, small and mediumsized enterprises and industries, which are the essence of our living forces, that is to say, the economy of the real and the living. on the contrary, we must establish together, as soon as possible, an effective mechanism for exiting the euro rather than suffer the catastrophic consequences of its announced collapse. i therefore call for referendums in france and in europe on these crucial issues. finally, i call for early european elections, given the accelerating decline of our respective countries, which are being dragged down precisely because of the 'state of the european union'.
in writing. on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the report on minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. the alarming figure is 75 million people a year who are victims of crime in the european union. there was an urgent need to provide better support and assistance to victims of crime committed in another country, who too often face serious problems due to differences in culture, language and legislation. i therefore support this directive which provides, among other things, for an individual assessment procedure, psychological support services and interpretation and translation services.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen the rights of our fellow citizens wherever they are in the union. among the measures envisaged here is better cooperation between the competent authorities, which will help victims to avoid the misinformation that sometimes delays their treatment. the european union must above all be at the service of our peoples and this report once again emphasises the need to take account of their expectations!
in writing. the report by my colleagues antonyia parvanova and teresa jiménez-becerril barrio was adopted by a large majority (611 votes in favour) and i welcome this. the report aims to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union. the european union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, the cornerstone of which is the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and other decisions of judicial authorities in civil and criminal matters in the eu. the report stresses the need to improve support services for victims of intimidation or other harm during criminal proceedings.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime so that these standards benefit all victims in the eu and strengthen their protection. this includes providing support and protection to victims and their family members through a confidential assistance service set up by member states to protect them from possible reprisals. access to support services, such as psychological support or practical assistance, should be determined on the basis of an individual assessment of their specific needs.
in writing. this report transforms proposals for minimum standards guaranteeing the rights of victims of crime into minimalist standards. the right of the victim to appeal against a decision to stop prosecution is no longer guaranteed, except in the case of a serious offence and if there has been no amicable settlement. the possibility of bringing a civil action or summoning the suspected offender to appear before a criminal court is not even considered. the right to a written translation of all documents relating to the case in which he is concerned is no longer guaranteed to the victim. as for the reimbursement of legal costs, it becomes random. i vote against it.
in writing. on wednesday 12 september 2012, i voted in favour of the ep and council regulation amending the council regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and methylated and for bran, germ and other residues. i particularly support the idea of appropriate involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts.
in writing. the moreira report is a very technical report. the purpose of this report is to adapt this regulation to the developments brought about by the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards comitology. i supported this report in the plenary vote on 12 september.
in writing. the report proposes to give the commission the power to amend the volume of agricultural quotas, particularly for meat and cereals, imported into europe. given the tendency of the european commission to give in to us blackmail, as in the case of beef quotas a few months ago, we have reason to doubt its neutrality in this matter. i vote against it out of distrust.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment of the council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products originating in turkey as regards the delegated and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission. it was important first of all that these amendments follow the omnibus trade act, but also to ensure that parliament is properly involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts in order to facilitate the scrutiny of these acts.
in writing. on wednesday 12 september 2012, i voted in favour of the amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment between the european community and australia. this amendment simplifies the operation of the agreement and eliminates unnecessary restrictions on trade. i therefore support the decision to remove the provision limiting the application of the agreement to industrial products originating in the parties in accordance with non-preferential rules of origin.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will facilitate trade between the european union and australia. this is a real opportunity for companies in our regions, which see new business prospects. facilitating each other's access to our respective markets is a real opportunity for our smes, and we must seize it!
in writing. the amendments to this agreement are designed to simplify its operation and to remove unnecessary trade restrictions between the parties. the amended mutual recognition agreement will cover all products falling within its scope, irrespective of their origin.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition in conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand as it will remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, reduce the administrative burden of administering the agreement and facilitate and clarify its operation. today, it is this type of barriers, more technical than tariff, that must be removed to facilitate trade.
in writing. on wednesday 12 september 2012, i voted in favour of the amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand. the amendment aims to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to simplify the operation of the agreement, and to reduce the administrative burden of administering the agreement.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will facilitate trade between the european union and new zealand. this is a real opportunity for companies in our regions, which see new business prospects. facilitating each other's access to our respective markets is a real opportunity for our smes, and we must seize it!
in writing. the amendments to the agreement are designed to simplify its operation and to introduce more flexibility in the sectoral annexes. it also removes unnecessary trade restrictions between the parties and administrative burdens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this technical amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition in conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand as it will remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, reduce the administrative burden of administering the agreement and facilitate and clarify its operation. today, it is this type of barriers, more technical than tariff, that we must work to remove in order to facilitate trade.
in writing. the european commission must take into account the level of development of a country when it wants to sanction a country that practices unsustainable fishing. in the name of the principle of policy coherence with development objectives, it is, in my view, crucial that the measures adopted in the fisheries sector do not call into question the development plans and strategies put in place by the european union in these countries. i have supported this report because it takes up this important idea for our committee on development by providing that measures must not be unjustified or even discriminatory.
in writing. the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations fish stocks agreement require coastal states and states whose fleets fish in adjacent high seas areas to cooperate in the responsible management of all stocks to ensure their long-term sustainability. the report by my colleague mr gallagher was adopted in plenary on 12 september and i welcome that. this is to respond to the massive overexploitation of mackerel in iceland and the faroe islands. in view of the repeated violations, the eu has decided to put in place a new set of measures to discourage the pursuit of unsustainable fishing activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on measures for countries allowing unsustainable fishing. following the finding of over-exploitation of stocks, including mackerel, in the north-east atlantic seas, this report aims to adopt trade sanctions against states that fail to engage in responsible stock management and thus jeopardise long-term sustainability.
in writing. the report proposes to take drastic measures to enforce the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement. it recalled that these measures must not be taken in any discriminatory or arbitrary way. although i do not trust the european commission's neutrality in this matter, i am voting for this text, in support of its central idea.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on mr gallagher's report, i thought it important to point out that the european commission must take account of the level of development of a country when it wants to sanction a country that practices unsustainable fishing. in the name of the principle of policy coherence with development objectives, it is, in my view, crucial that the measures adopted in the fisheries sector do not call into question the development plans and strategies put in place by the european union in these countries. the draft report by mr gallagher takes up this important idea for our committee on development by providing that measures must not be unjustified or even discriminatory. i therefore invite the european commission, when adopting such measures, to respect this principle of policy coherence with development objectives and to take due account of the level of development and vulnerability of countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on measures taken to conserve fish stocks in relation to countries allowing unsustainable fishing. the content of this report is crucial, since it aims in particular to ensure fair competition between european fishermen and third countries. in the face of ambitious european legislation to preserve fish stocks, it is imperative that we ensure that our fishing activity does not become an offshoring activity with lower environmental costs. the report therefore mentions the possibility of restricting the import of fishery products from countries authorising unsustainable fishing, of restricting the provision of port services to vessels flying their flag, or of preventing union fishing vessels from exploiting stocks of common interest under the responsibility of the country authorising unsustainable fishing. i regret to note, however, that this report is entirely conditional, and i hope that the european commission will soon make a legally binding proposal on this matter.
in writing. on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. this proposal is a good omen: it is important to strengthen the role of producer organisations in the management of the production and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products and to involve them as much as possible in the economic regulation of their sector of activity. i also support the idea of more comprehensive labelling for the consumer: the date of capture or production will now be mentioned.
in writing. the european parliament was due to give its opinion on wednesday 12 september on the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products, which is currently being reformed. the european fisheries policy is an important issue for france, since it is sensitive to the uncertainties facing french fishermen. in the european parliament, the ump members have had to contend with members of other nationalities, sometimes even members of their own political group, who have a very different view of fishing than they do. but the position adopted by parliament is in line with our expectations. parliament called for the introduction of a single european public eco-label for fishery and aquaculture products by 2015 which would enable consumers to be better informed about what they are consuming. consumers will have to be given information on the catch area, the commercial name of the product, the date of landing and the wording 'unfrozen' if the product is sold as fresh. parliament also recommended that the role of producer organisations be strengthened so that they can contribute to market stability and price regulation.
in writing. the report by my colleague, mr struan stevenson, was adopted by a large majority, with 620 votes in favour, 27 against and 27 abstentions. the cmo (common organisation of the markets) is the first component of the common fisheries policy. the provisions of this report aim in particular to strengthen the role of producer organisations and to relax the marketing rules for fresh produce.
in writing. i agree with most of this report. information for european citizens on the fish they consume needs to be improved in order to guide them towards products from sustainable and, if possible, local fisheries. reducing our ecological debt by consuming less imported fish is necessary, as is raising the quality of fishery products placed on the market and promoting employment in the european fisheries sector. i would, however, like to denounce the ambiguity of the text as to whether or not it supports the system of transferable fishing concessions (tfp). i'm not going to do it, because i don't trust you.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, even though it would have been more appropriate to put it to the vote after the basic regulation for the reform of the cfp had been adopted. the advances made by the vote are uneven. the negative point is that this report provides for a market in landed by-catches, but landings have not yet been regulated in the basic regulation. however, it is necessary to have a legal framework in place, but this does not preclude the means that will be used to limit or even eliminate by-catches. i was, on the contrary, very much in favour of the european parliament recognising the need to make european funding of the storage mechanism sustainable and creating an eco-label. producer organisations are also given more power and recognition, including the possibility of becoming transnational. finally, the report supports the development of aquaculture, which i support, provided we remember that this activity is complementary to fishing and must be governed by strict environmental standards, without favouring the creation of a market for fishmeal.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which reconciles the challenges facing the sector: quality of products for consumers, sustainability and economic viability of fishing activities. as such, the role of producer organisations must be strengthened to counterbalance the power of retailers, to ensure that prices are reasonable for the consumer and fair for fishermen, and to manage fishing quotas. the sector must remain competitive, but not at any price: no one wants to see our small-scale fisheries disappear, threatened by intensive activities, climate change and market tensions. fishing is deeply rooted in our culture and heritage, and i refuse to compromise on protecting our model of fishing and aquaculture. with this vote, our assembly has established an optimal framework for protecting our fishermen and managing stocks sustainably, through a balanced approach adapted to the specificities of the fishing areas. i also supported the great innovation in this report: the creation of a european eco-label, which will guarantee the preservation of fish stocks and the compliance with the traceability requirements of products from boat to plate.
in writing. on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the report on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy. far from being a mere revision of the council report, this report by the afet committee highlights the importance of parliament's contribution to the definition of a new strategic and forward-looking approach to the european union's foreign policy. in this respect, several priorities are announced which i support: the ambition to improve coordination with partners in the field of civil and military crisis management, the need to implement criteria for monitoring and evaluating progress over the years and the will to remedy the lack of leadership of the union in foreign policy by giving catherine ashton a leading role in all areas of europe's external action.
in writing. the common foreign and security policy is still struggling to find its way. the european union would be more visible on the international stage if it spoke with one voice. the commission and the member states must coordinate their diplomatic and, if necessary, military resources more closely. european foreign policy can play an important role if the 27 succeed in harmonizing their national foreign policies. in syria, for example, the european union has all the cards in hand to propose, alongside other actors such as turkey and the arab league, a scenario for resolving the crisis.
in writing. behind the barbaric acronyms (easo, vp/hr, cfsp, pesd) lies the union's desire to appropriate international relations and foreign affairs. the annual report on foreign policy presents a series of utopian proposals in substance and form. in this sensitive area, as in others, the race for european integration will lead to disaster. while some cooperation between european states is of course essential, we cannot accept the transfer of powers to the brussels bureaucracy or the handing over of national representations to mrs ashton, leaving a lot of money and credibility behind.
in writing. i voted against the brok report on the common foreign and security policy, the cfsp. we want to turn the european union into both a humanitarian organization, a docile auxiliary to nato, and an entity negotiating free trade agreements with the rest of the world. the cfsp is mrs catherine ashton in the land of bison: all problems can be solved if we give a lot of money, if we open our borders to everyone and everything, if we give the rest of the world some lessons in moral sense, and above all if the big american brother continues to ensure our security in the face of real threats. the problem is that the union has never thought of itself, with or without the lisbon treaty, as a great world power. it is constantly seeking an international political role which is out of its reach, since it is constantly destroying the diplomatic and military capacities of its members. this is done in the name of a lenient ideology, of a flawless mercantilism, of a malthusian budgetary rationality. europe is neither synergy nor synthesis. she's just a bunch of weaknesses. it's both anesthetic and dissolving. it is urgent that each member state regain its full sovereignty for its security and its relations with other states.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague elmar brok in plenary. this own-initiative report contributes to the definition of a new strategic and forward-looking approach to eu foreign policy. taking as a starting point the ambitions of the lisbon treaty (in particular article 24 (1) teu), parliament called on catherine ashton, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to achieve greater synergies and to play a leading role through courageous and decisive action. unfortunately, we have to admit that there is a lack of leadership. the cfsp needs to be given a strategic and coherent approach.
in writing. this report affirms respect for the centrality of the un and the will to work towards reforming it. but that's the only good thing about it. the rest is imperialist arrogance. the text aims to establish vast free trade areas for every region of the world and even confuses free trade with the rule of law! it called for the institutions of the large transatlantic market under construction and its security component to be strengthened. he claims to be the driving force behind latin american regional integration when it, together with unasur and celac, is proving conclusively that it does not need the eu to integrate. he mocked argentina's attempts to decolonize the malvinas and denounced the "nationalization" of ypf by the latter. it ignores the need to respect the 1967 borders in the middle east. he advocates the strengthening of nato, the armed wing of eu and us imperialism. i vote against this arrogant text and denounce it as an imperialist manifesto.
in writing. the european parliament has shown that it is fully capable of playing its role in the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the report i voted for in plenary contains an ambitious strategic and forward-looking analysis, in line with the relevant provisions of the lisbon treaty. in this text, parliament recommended that the council put in place political mechanisms to ensure the consistency of our external action and criteria for assessing it, to give the eeas the means it needs to fulfil its mission and to give the cfsp realistic strategic orientations and priorities. because in this time of economic austerity, it is necessary to give priority to actions with high added value. the new european neighbourhood policy was highlighted. on the other hand, on the essential question of geographical differentiation, it was recalled that the choice of 'strategic' partners had to be the subject of a thorough reflection which respected the values and objectives of the european union.
in writing. this annual report marks a new beginning for our diplomacy, since since lisbon our parliament no longer has a mere right to information, but a real freedom of action on all aspects of foreign policy. i supported the main ambition of this report, which is that if we want a visible and effective european diplomacy, we must rationalise the resources and means, and bring them into line with our objectives. we cannot afford to ignore this common sense approach, which i have been calling for for a long time. at the same time, cooperation with nato and national armies must be strengthened. in a globalised world, where interstate relations between allied countries are based on solidarity, it seems to me futile to develop our defence systems in a strictly national framework, without envisaging a rapprochement, or even a pooling, of means and resources. it would be extremely dangerous to delay any longer, as the areas of tension, human rights violations and threats are increasing. i am therefore calling on mrs ashton to assert herself as the true patron of the union's foreign affairs. you have the means and the legitimacy, all you need is the will!
in writing. on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the information requirements under the regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. i believe that the principle of relative stability, which is the key to the allocation of fishing quotas and a guarantee of socioeconomic stability for the sector, must be maintained.
in writing. the report by my colleague carl haglund was adopted by a large majority (399 votes in favour, 228 against and 31 abstentions on paragraph 4, for example). the main aim is to amend the measures relating to multiannual recovery and management plans for fishery resources in order to reconcile ecological imperatives with economic and social considerations.
in writing. the overall situation of european fish stocks is a cause for concern, although the cfp has produced some good results for a few iconic species. efforts must therefore be continued and intensified. the report proposes to abolish the common rule for allocating quotas between states of 'relative stability'. it's an aberration, you know. it supports the privatisation of the resource through the adoption of individual transferable quotas. i'm totally against it. the latter will lead to concentration of firms and loss of jobs. they offer no guarantee of restoring the stocks to good ecological status. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. this own-initiative report is satisfactory because it has advanced the debate on the cfp, in particular by highlighting parliament's consensus on the need to improve data collection, an essential prerequisite for the informed definition of cfp objectives at a time when the status of certain stocks is still unknown, but this is only a step-by-step vote. the report also stresses the need for greater decentralisation, at a time when the commission says that there are too many vessels in the european fleet compared to the available resources, without, however, examining the realities of each sea front and the different fish stocks present. it was also stated in this report that one of the key priorities of the cfp should be employment, because without fish there is no fisheries, but without fishermen there is no fisheries either. finally, the european parliament has stated that transferable fishing concessions should be an optional management mode and has recognised that the obligation to land by-catches should be adapted to the realities of each fishery.
in writing. on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the report on the general communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy. i particularly support the objective of renewing the european fleet with safer and less polluting vessels while reducing the power of ships. i am also opposed to an increase in fleet capacity.
in writing. our votes have shown that a majority of the parliament is not in favour of transferable fishing concessions (tfcs) to liberalise the fishing sector. even though, unfortunately, the text still refers to the cpt, it is now optional. a more lenient position was also adopted on the compulsory landing of waste; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of fisheries in the baltic sea. if the landing of by-catches were to be approved in the basic regulation, the text on the common organization of the market also guaranteed that financial compensation would be provided for the traders. finally, as regards the maximum sustainable yield, a compromise was reached so that this rate would be applied by 2020 at the latest, rather than in 2015.
in writing. the common fisheries policy, in place for 20 years, has not been able to preserve fisheries resources and the balance of the ecosystem, nor has it been able to prevent the economic and social deterioration of an entire sector of activity. a new pcp has to be born. in the future, the european union will set a general framework for the sea and fisheries policy, in partnership with the member states and the major coastal regions, and the solutions will be adapted locally, with the actors on the ground. the eu and the member states must give producer organisations the means to play a greater role setting up production and marketing plans and thus have a greater say over distributors. consumers also need to be better protected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. finally, fisheries and aquaculture are not suited to a purely free trade approach. in international negotiations, fishery products must be considered as 'sensitive products' in the same way as certain agricultural products.
in writing. the future of the seas is at stake in this dossier. the salavrakos report deserved support for its long-term perspective on the sustainable development of eu fisheries, but we could not let it be diluted in this way. let me explain: amendment no 2, which was adopted with the help of the regionalists who overturned the vote, destroys the call for the rebuilding of fish stocks beyond levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield (msy). this means that the eu is not even up to the standards of international law. i therefore voted against this text because, although it takes account of some important aspects (restrictions on fleet renewal, fish stocking areas), many points, particularly those on overfishing and the objectives of the common fisheries policy, are not sufficiently taken into account.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague nikolaos salavrakos. this is an own-initiative report which aims to support the objectives of the european commission's reform of the cfp. the proposed measures are designed to increase sustainable and eco-friendly fishing, to ensure that europeans are supplied with healthy and high-quality fishery products, to ensure the prosperity of coastal communities and the profitability of the fish production and processing industries, and to improve the attractiveness and safety of jobs.
in writing. this text proposes relevant measures to establish a truly sustainable fishery. the involvement of fishermen at all levels, national and local, in producer organisations, financial support for improving scientific knowledge of stocks and the collection of statistical data on fisheries, financial support for the development of an eco-label, the fight against discards from by-catch, financial support for improving the energy efficiency of vessels, import control, training of seafarers and improving living conditions on board, the promotion of fisheries tourism are all measures that i support with the left front. but this text does not preclude the adoption of the system of transferable fishing concessions (tpc), which is particularly destructive for small-scale coastal fishing. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. i voted for the general communication on the common fisheries policy (cfp). this non-binding report is acceptable in that its content anticipates and influences future discussions on the cfp basic regulation. it has made some progress on the european commission's proposals, important progress which i hope will be improved further in future negotiations. in the face of the much-contested ec proposal to introduce transferable fishing concessions, a tool for liberalising the fisheries sector, parliament has in particular voted in favour of a voluntary system, leaving the choice to member states whether to implement it or not, which is an encouraging start. parliament also said that we should reach the maximum sustainable yield by 2020, not exceed it, which was considered too vague. the proposal to land all by-catches, which is very difficult for the sector to implement due to technical constraints, has also been mitigated, in favour of a gradual implementation on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the different realities of fisheries. the technical feasibility of such a measure will have to be discussed further.
mr president, mr council representative, commissioner, if i may believe the speeches i have just heard from the council representative and mrs reding, the rule of law is no longer respected in romania. that is what the commission has said and what mrs reding has repeated to us. the venice commission is also very concerned, as is the council representative. the ombudsman in romania has been dismissed without any legal basis. a few days later, emergency orders were passed to reduce the powers of the constitutional court. a new mediator has been appointed, close to the government in power. i will not repeat what my colleagues have said, but we are still very concerned in the european union about what has happened since the new social-liberal coalition came to power. all the mechanisms of democratic control have been undermined, from the control of the impartial ombudsman to that of the constitutional court, and this in defiance of the procedures in force, to the electoral rules. the referendum has taken place. today i am told that a number of investigations are being carried out in romania. i am told that several hundred thousand votes are likely to be affected by fraud. it is understandable that there is a rush to tackle new policies at a time of change. we know about alternation in all european countries. in my country, france, my government fell and the socialists came to power, but it happened cleanly, without changing the legal rules. why did the socialists not come to power in romania, as in other european countries? today, mrs reding, mr barroso, i ask you to uphold the rule of law. it's your duty. you must do it and i ask the new coalition in place to do the same. democracy in europe is not for sale. i ask the socialist group to keep its promises and commitments. democracy is the heart of our europe, the heart of the european union. we have visitors in the house today, and i wonder how they feel about what you have done in your country. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr tănăsescu, i read the press, i go on the internet and i'm like everyone else, i use the media. i imagine you must do the same, especially since you're in romania. so you must have the same information as me.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i would first like to thank sharon bowles for the question she has asked today, when the european commission, after a long period of work which i had the honour of leading under president barroso, is making public its proposal for a single banking supervision in the euro area. i would therefore like to thank you very much, madam president, for giving me the opportunity to listen to you, to reply to you and to listen to the other members who have something to say on this subject. with this banking union we want to provide answers to the challenges facing europe and, in particular, the euro area. ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of these challenges, since you have been acting on them and talking about them for a long time. the first concerns the link between the banking sector situation and sovereign debt - a link which we want to sever. the second is the temptation for each bank to turn to its own national area when it is in difficulty. the time is therefore ripe for action, and that is what we are doing today with these two legislative proposals which go together and which should allow the establishment of a single and effective monitoring mechanism. the commission firstly presents a proposal for a regulation based on article 127 (6) of the treaty, which would give the european central bank specific tasks in the field of prudential supervision. this system is simple, it is credible and we think it is robust. it will allow the european stability mechanism to play its role if necessary, and in accordance with the rules laid down in its decision-making procedures. this system is credible because the european central bank will have ultimate responsibility for making the key supervisory decisions, i.e. those that have an impact or consequence on financial stability. for example, other supervisory decisions - and your assembly is very attentive to this - concerning consumer protection will clearly remain within the remit of the national supervisors. the single supervisor will thus be able to grant and withdraw a licence to a bank, to check the risk management of an institution or, in the context of european prudential regulation, to require it to strengthen its funds. this system is also simple because we plan to give the european central bank the responsibility for the supervision of all credit institutions in the euro area. this, ladies and gentlemen, is simply one of the lessons of the crisis. systemic crises can be caused - as we have seen - by the difficulties of medium-sized banks, sometimes small banks, and not just by large international groups. this system is also robust because, of course, it is not a question of asking the european central bank to do everything alone. we want to maintain a role and responsibility in the framework of common supervision for the national supervisors who, as we well know, have in each country the resources, the expertise, the experience, which this single supervision will need to prepare the decisions, to execute them, and to implement and apply what i shall call the single supervision manual for each of the institutions, but to do so at national level, again, with the support of the national supervisor. finally, this system, if you will, will be open. we propose that member states which are not, or are not yet, in the euro area join the single supervisory mechanism voluntarily. i know that some of you are concerned about the legal basis we have chosen. they rightly point out that this basis does not provide for a codecision procedure but for the unanimity of the council, even though your assembly played a decisive role - i do not forget this - in setting up the authorities responsible for the supervision of markets, banks and insurance companies. ladies and gentlemen, to be very frank, and i have always been frank with you, the choice we have made is the result of several objective considerations. the purpose of article 127 (6) of the treaty is precisely to entrust supervisory tasks to the european central bank. it was therefore a logical and solid basis, and that is why the heads of state and government of the euro area explicitly asked the commission to work on this basis in their declaration of 29 june. but parliament, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, will play its part. i know that and i wish that. i will be attentive to your comments, proposals and criticisms, because the two proposals we are making today - for the regulation on the european banking authority (eba) and for supervision - go together, as president barroso said this morning in our name. the texts we are proposing also establish a real system of accountability of the new and future supervisory board to parliament, which i believe is a real step forward. the second regulation i have just mentioned will therefore aim to adapt the eba's operation to take account of the new balance resulting from the single supervisory mechanism. this regulation is based on article 114 of the treaty, which provides for codecision. the proposal revises certain voting arrangements within the eba to enable it to continue to play its full role in the development of common standards for the whole of the single market. the revision also aims to enable decision-making and to guarantee the integrity of the single market, while safeguarding the interests and rights of each of its members. finally, we present a communication which puts this unique supervision project into perspective. we will not build an integrated and effective supervision without solid foundations, and these solid foundations, these foundations for the 27 countries of the european union - and that is why i wish that we do not confuse the field of regulation, which remains that of all these texts that we have been building together for two and a half years, and that of supervision - are the legislative proposals already on the table and on the one hand, already approved - and for some already implemented - concerning in the future the resolution of banking crises, the deposit guarantee scheme and the own funds requirements through crd iv. these initiatives are key elements of what we have collectively called the single rulebook, the single internal market regulation, which must apply well in the 27 member states. the commission therefore does not intend to withdraw either of these proposals, which are not only compatible with banking union but also indispensable to its development and to the preservation and consolidation of the single regulation, this common regulation for the whole of the european banking economy. that is why i hope that the european parliament and the council of ministers - we shall be discussing this with the ministers from tomorrow in cyprus - will be able to reach agreement on these texts as soon as possible. this shows that the strengthening of the single market and the single supervision are two complementary approaches. the establishment of this banking union will naturally lead us to go further in strengthening our resolution and guarantee mechanisms, in line with the guidelines clearly set out in the report of the four presidents and in the communication from the european commission. ladies and gentlemen, we all know that there is an urgent need to get the euro area out of the crisis it is in, so that the european union, with its single market, can once again achieve the growth that citizens expect. i wanted to stress this urgency, and that is also why the commission, after 29 june, worked without improvisation, seriously but quickly, to be able to put on your table and that of the governments these two proposals which go together, for the creation of an open, robust and credible system of supervision.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would of course like to congratulate you and thank you for the very thorough, very rapid work you have done to put in place the two proposals that we have received today. we will play a different role in both, which will also depend on the legal basis. but i have the feeling, commissioner, from listening to each other, from reading the newspapers, that this negotiation which is being opened is a negotiation of all dangers, because the points of view are different. the commitments are not clear. but today we are being watched by our citizens who want to understand and see what europe is doing, by entrepreneurs who want to know whether they can invest, and by markets who are anxious to know what to do. i believe that in the coming months, in the coming weeks, the direction in which the negotiations will take will be decisive. i will not go into the technical details here - that will be the subject of discussion - but i simply note that if we do not show a genuine european spirit, if we are not able to go beyond national interests in the short term, if we are not able to set up genuinely strong european institutions, we will work for nothing and we will create disappointment. i am confident in your will, which i know is strong, commissioner. you have a record that honors you and allows us to say that the odds are in our favor. it is now up to the member states to take responsibility for overcoming technical disputes. it is not a question of how one allocates this or that small competence. the real question is whether we are making a banking union, or at least a system of quality supervision, to put finance at the service of the economy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for these proposals and for the enormous work you and your team have done over the summer. in any case, we are sensitive to the fact that this is a complex subject which should not be simplified and which should be looked at closely. i see you're dealing with a conflicting imperative. on the one hand, we have the internal market, which we are very keen to achieve, and which - as you said - we worked on two years ago, and which involves our right to look at an institution to which we have contributed. on the other hand, there is the very legitimate right of the euro area to strengthen its credibility in the sovereign debt crisis. i think you've been looking for a point of balance. we'll see in the course of the discussions if it's the right one. i would like to emphasize two things. you have courageously decided to place all banks under the responsibility of the ecb, which i believe is a good approach in terms of competition. it also makes it possible to signal to the outside world that the supervision of banks in the euro area is european, which is obviously important. it is also very important to stress the openness to countries which are not yet members of the euro zone and to which i believe we must be welcoming. so we will, of course, try to deal with these issues as consistently as possible. i am also a little concerned about the change this may bring to the central bank. i'm not saying you shouldn't do it. i think we need to look at something carefully. the strength of the ecb today is its independence, its narrow mandate and its federal character. and here we are trying to have an institution that will be more accountable to the elected representatives, that will have a much wider mandate and that will be integrated into a network. we must ensure that the central bank retains all its qualities by giving it another function. finally, you may recall that when we proposed much more integrated supervision, we were very sensitive to companies that were doing banking and insurance at the same time. we had proposed to bring together the banking and insurance authorities in frankfurt. keep that in mind. the more people we bring together and work together, the better it will be for our businesses.
mr president, i refer to the article on the blue cards. you just made the point i was trying to make. i wanted to know if, on the subject of the banking union, we were watching an island ping-pong competition. i think that the system of diverting the use of the blue cards by asking questions to friends in one's own group, which allows one to increase one's speaking time, is really a misuse of procedure. i'm surprised this comes from a country where fair play is so often praised.
i thank you, mr president, for making the remark yourself and for allowing mr gauzès to speak. i agree with that. we must ensure that the blue cards are used for discussions between groups and between countries. some may, indeed, be a little withdrawn.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for all the competence, patience and vision you have shown in the performance of your duties. a few remarks on your proposals. firstly, i am surprised that the council is not here, because it was the council that was supposed to present this proposal to us. he is the one with the hand, not the commission. it is for the council to make this proposal for a specific task for the central bank in the field of prudential supervision. i agree with a number of our colleagues that this legal basis has the merit of being effective, but i do not think it meets the expectations of our fellow citizens who want european regulation. i wonder about article 15 of the proposal, which provides for penalties, whereas the legal basis, namely article 127 (6), basically provides only for prudential supervision. there's talk of firing executives or imposing fines that could reach 10% of revenue. i think we'll have to have that checked. i would also draw attention to the fact that for some four years now the committee on budgetary control has been calling for the european investment bank to be subject to regulatory scrutiny under this legal basis, and it would be useful if this regulation were extended to public banks, and in particular to public development banks. finally, i believe that on the basis of article 26 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, we could consider establishing a european policy on regulators, because under that article the union is entitled to adopt all the measures necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. in short, we must put in place a genuine policy for regulating our european markets in order to achieve a genuine internal market.
mr president, we all know how long and tedious the epa negotiations are. that is why i have a two-pronged view on this matter. on the one hand, a quick glance reveals that only 18 of the 36 acp countries which have initiated or signed an epa have ratified it. the others therefore have an incentive to conclude and implement an agreement quickly, at the risk of having their negotiating efforts ruined by a deadline such as 2014. on the other hand, we knew as early as 2007 that this regulation would only be temporary, incompatible with the wto rules. these factors lead me to believe that the rapporteur's proposal is the best possible compromise to give the commission services and the acp countries the time they need to conclude the epa negotiations. however, if the vote tomorrow, 1 january 2016, does not achieve a majority, i call on my colleagues to reject the commission's proposal.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the epp, our colleague mr kariņš, on this difficult report, given the sensitive nature of bilateral energy negotiations between european countries and third countries. the agreement reached in the trilogue will allow the commission's draft decision to be implemented quickly and, in the interests of pragmatism, we can only welcome this. energy europe is making progress, not fast enough, but it is making progress. the european union is a major importer of energy and is structurally dependent on certain supplier countries. in order to have a more european reflection on our energy strategy, it became necessary to disseminate information on energy agreements more widely to the european commission, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the establishment of an information mechanism on intergovernmental agreements will therefore improve transparency in the energy market and thus make it possible to anticipate energy supply problems. i welcome the fact that this decision does not create any obligation with regard to agreements between commercial companies. in times of crisis and in view of the challenges to competition and competitiveness, we had to protect the interests of our companies and the rules for protecting private contracts.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing two important texts this evening, two proposals for regulations on venture capital, on the one hand, and the european social entrepreneurship fund, on the other. the aim is simple: to create a european label. as far as entrepreneurship is concerned, it is one tool among a set of provisions. in any case, i hope that the commission will be able to take ownership of this entrepreneurship, which is a lever for growth, and that it will consider a number of provisions, mechanisms and tools related to this social entrepreneurship. i will, of course, let my colleague philippe lamberts speak on venture capital. i would like to address two questions. first, what are the issues with this text? then why are we voting on it in plenary tomorrow? first, what is the objective of the text? the aim is twofold: to encourage the development of solidarity investment, but also to diversify the sources of financing for social enterprises. what is a social enterprise? the main purpose of a social enterprise is to generate a positive social impact. it is, for example, to integrate vulnerable or marginalised people into its human resources, its employees. they are also enterprises whose purpose is to support social activity. today, these companies are financed mainly through subsidies. we all know that it will be increasingly difficult for states and local authorities to support the financing of the programme through grants. these companies therefore see their future compromised, even though they need sustainable growth and innovation. we must help them to find other sources of finance, so that we can improve our social market economy. i would remind you that social entrepreneurship represents 10% of european enterprises and 11 million employees. the solidarity investment market is already very active in some of the emerging countries, but unfortunately it is extremely fragmented. at a time when the world of finance is being so much criticised, i am satisfied that this text can demonstrate that the profit for the world of finance is not the alpha and the omega, but that it can and must even play a major role in the solidarity economy and the real economy. i would like michel barnier to know how much i welcome this proactive approach. until now, the european commission has had a regulatory and supervisory relationship with finance, and this was appropriate. today we are taking a proactive approach, which is intended to provide an impetus to put finance at the service of the real economy. i thank the commission for this approach. why are we voting on this text tomorrow in plenary? we've been working hard on it this summer. my goal was twofold. it was about getting accessibility and security, because this label has to be open and accessible, but not at any price and not to just anyone. today we have reached a trialogue agreement - i am sorry to be slightly out of time, mr president, but this is a rather complicated matter - and i will ask my colleagues to support this agreement tomorrow. i hope that the council will follow us immediately when we have adopted this regulation. i would remind you that this is a real lever for growth in our economy and a vehicle for inclusion and progress in our society.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the report by mrs auconie, which is a proposal to promote european social entrepreneurship funds. last week, in an excellent conference organised by commissioner andor, the president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, said that the question of the european social model was an element of the european union's competitiveness, and social entrepreneurship is clearly part of that. so this proposal we have on the table is a welcome proposal. however, i think we must ensure - and this was the subject of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs - that through these social entrepreneurship funds we do not create new niches on the financial markets. i must say that from this point of view we have two concerns. we asked in the committee on employment and social affairs for the question of social housing to be dealt with specifically and i think that would have been useful. finally, i must say that the answer given by the commissioner representing commissioner barnier on the establishment of such funds in tax havens seems to me to be problematic, because once again it is not a question of creating new niches or new rich people but of promoting a new sector, one that is very promising, namely the social market economy through social entrepreneurship.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to speak here tonight as vice-president of the social economy intergroup. two texts are currently being discussed in the european parliament, one on the social entrepreneurship initiative, which will be discussed in the committee on employment and social affairs next week, and the other which we are discussing this evening. it is hardly satisfactory that we should examine the second before the first, which is much more general. the definition of social enterprises which is before us today seems to me, from this point of view, too restrictive. i hope it will put a stop to attempts at social washing or social whitewashing. but it reduces social enterprises, and in particular those of the social economy, which are the main component of them, to the question of the most vulnerable. the social economy players, who run people-based rather than capital-based enterprises, are waiting for further signs from the european institutions, including recognition of their alternative status to that of capital companies. we still have a lot of catching up to do, commissioner, with regard to the champions of tomorrow, as you said, with regard to all those companies which are not obsessed with maximising their profits.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to promote the emergence of an economy more geared to the citizen, that is to say, a more innovative and more solidarity-based economy, it is essential to strengthen the conditions of access to finance for companies pursuing not only economic but also social, ethical or environmental objectives. this is why we need to ensure that these two tools - venture capital funds and social entrepreneurship funds - can be made available to our businesses as quickly as possible. i have heard all the issues you have raised today, including your position on the possibility of compromise on the question of tax havens. i will certainly pass on your concerns to my colleague, mr barnier, who is at your disposal with his services to find a satisfactory solution quickly. we remain convinced that adoption of both reports at first reading is both possible and necessary.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs in their presence and then, of course, my colleague mr philippe lamberts, because we have worked very constructively in a trans-partisan reflection full of conviction and we have achieved a very satisfactory result. thank you all! in conclusion, i would like to remind you that one in four enterprises in the european union is a social enterprise. i would remind you that the solidarity investment market is worth one billion euros. mr philippe, there are not many of us in this chamber, but i am sure that many entrepreneurs, especially social entrepreneurs, are watching us live on the parliament's website. i would like to say to them, and to all of you here, that social entrepreneurship is not a niche and that this european label represents real added value if we define it in a responsible way. we need today, commissioner, as you said, to improve the financing of companies in the field of social entrepreneurship, and we must not be hostages to a single article. the second reading, as we have all demonstrated, would be a complete waste of time. i will therefore ask all my colleagues, in a very united spirit, in the context of the sitting and in the vote tomorrow, to support me and to support the agreement reached in the trilogue. i hope that the council will follow us in this direction so that this regulation can be adopted quickly. i would remind you that this is a lever for growth in our economy and a vehicle for inclusion and progress in our society. i call on all my colleagues to vote openly and massively in favour of the agreement reached in the trilogue.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i cannot share the optimism of those who consider that the safeguard clauses, as amended, are sufficient to protect community banana production. it's not! these clauses are only in name. unless it is a question of safeguarding agreements which neither the commission nor the signatory states are prepared to challenge and change. these agreements, as you know - and our colleague mr mato has mentioned this - are very damaging to the banana sector in the outermost regions. the mechanisms for triggering these clauses for bananas are such that they become inoperative, almost virtual. and now we're being asked to applaud the illusion of a production! despite these clauses, i believe that the caribbean banana markets are still open to unfair competition from latin american export markets and to the blind liberalization of trade that the european commission wants to impose. i therefore call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments i have tabled which will at least protect the banana sectors in the outermost regions and the jobs that depend on them. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speech. i think - and this is the meaning of the amendments i tabled, which were not adopted by the inta committee, and which will be put to the vote tomorrow - that there is a problem with the triggering of the safeguard clauses. there's too much left to appreciate. this is my view and i believe that it is also the view of some members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and of banana professionals. i think that for the triggering of these safeguard clauses, a little more stringent criteria should have been introduced. that's a first point. the second point concerns the (micro) ones. i think there is a problem here too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank both of our rapporteurs for their work on this matter. this was necessary because we had gone too far with the commission's basic proposal: no specific mention of the outermost regions, which are directly affected by competition from latin american countries; the vehicle shall be equipped with a means of transporting the vehicle in the normal manner. the commission has not been given the opportunity to request the opening of a safeguard investigation. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. that is why it is extremely important that the vote tomorrow validates the progress made on these points in the committee on international trade. however, this is not enough, because we know that the triggering thresholds for these two regulations are so high that they make these mechanisms practically unenforceable. the commission must also provide additional financial resources to support the competitiveness of community banana production. it is important to bear in mind that many jobs are at stake in these european regions, which already have record unemployment rates.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, on behalf of the epp group, i would first of all like to thank rapporteur lidia geringer and our fictitious rapporteur angelika niebler, whom i am replacing, and the other fictitious rapporteurs for their efforts which have really helped to achieve a very broad consensus on this text. the adoption of this directive solves a specific problem, namely the use of books, archives and other works protected by copyright where the rights holders are not identified. we have managed to strike a balance between the protection of authors and creators, which requires diligent research before any exploitation, and the interests of libraries, museums and public broadcasters. it should be noted that these bodies are involved in the conservation and dissemination of europe's cultural heritage. it was essential to enable them to exploit these works, but also to conclude contracts, including public-private partnership contracts. we must understand that this directive is not the final step, but only a further step towards our goal of large-scale digitisation of our cultural heritage. this directive will coexist with other national regulations and with initiatives at european level such as the memorandum of understanding on the key principles of digitisation with regard to unavailable works, which was signed on 20 september 2011. with the adoption of this directive on orphan works, we are demonstrating that copyright is not a brake but, on the contrary, provides answers to the expectations and needs of users in the digital age. respect for intellectual property is compatible with the development and supply of new digital services and therefore promotes the growth of this economic sector.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i almost had the same thing happen to me as our colleague because i had not seen the change of agenda and i was in a meeting at the other end of the house. so if you'll excuse me, i'm a little short of breath and i hate to intervene when i haven't heard what's been said. i would ask you, commissioner, to forgive me for this. the digitisation of cultural works is a major challenge, one of making our heritage accessible to as many people as possible. but it must be done in strict respect of copyright, and therefore guaranteeing the remuneration of the authors. the conciliation of these issues is at the heart of our debate. it is quite dramatic that european citizens do not have access to part of this cultural heritage because the authors are unknown or no longer known. the numbering of works must therefore be carried out in strict compliance with the public interest missions of the public bodies concerned. now, in this time of budgetary shortages, excuse me, but it seems to me that the shadow of "google" is hanging a little over our work. we in our group are concerned about the use of certain provisions of the draft submitted to us. for example, why exclude non-available works, when many of them are orphan works? worse, respect for public-private partnerships may open the door wide to the commodification of this sector. for these reasons, our group will abstain on this text, because in our view it still contains far too many questions.
madam rapporteur, i happen to be the fictitious rapporteur on the committee on culture and education and the position i have expressed reflects the position we have always held in this committee. she hasn't changed. i think we are quite unanimous in this group on this point. so there may be a problem with the discussion you had, but as far as i'm concerned, i'm used to being part of the work. i am not on the legal affairs committee, i am on the culture committee, and i would ask you to refrain from putting me on trial in a group without the necessary information.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on my report on the european strategy for the atlantic. this strategy will provide considerable resources for the dynamism of the european atlantic territories. the report sets out an industrial policy roadmap to strengthen strategic sectors in the atlantic regions. we will thus be able to help our maritime industries to successfully meet the challenges of globalisation. thanks to your efforts, ladies and gentlemen, we have created the conditions for a genuine marshall plan for the atlantic arc. europe needs real political will to prepare for tomorrow's growth today.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 57, i ask that the final vote on the legislative resolution be postponed. we will resume negotiations with the council.
mr president, i have an oral amendment to paragraph 2, which is about asylum seekers and refugees. i shall say it in english so that everyone can understand. in the text you have ‘calls on the eu’ – to which i want to add ‘and its member states’ – ‘to take appropriate responsible’ – to which i want to add ‘and humanitarian’ – measures on the ‘influx of refugees’ – to which i want to add ‘and asylum seekers’ –into the eu member states. it is very simple, it is humanitarian and i think all christians or non-believers can follow me.
mr president, i would like to support the report by my colleague, sophie auconie, which aims to support social entrepreneurship and solidarity investment by creating a european label for european social entrepreneurship funds. the objective of this label will be to help investors easily identify funds that invest primarily in social enterprises in europe. to qualify for the label, a fund must have invested 70% of the capital received from investors in social enterprises. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i was particularly interested in the creation of this fund for european social entrepreneurship, which commissioner barnier identified in the single market act as one of the 12 levers for growth in europe, and which attests to the fact that our work can be about concrete measures to support this growth. social entrepreneurship already represents 10% of our european enterprises, 11 million employees: this is important. we must support it and implement a genuine strategy of development and support in this area.
in writing. a country in the midst of change, brazil is one of the european union's main partners in latin america. it is only natural that the european parliament has renewed the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with this country to enable our scientists to work together on many projects with a high potential for innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and brazil. it will encourage this ambitious and stimulating scientific and technological cooperation for a further five years.
in writing. by supporting this agreement on cooperation in science and technology, the european parliament wanted to strengthen trade with this neighbouring country. algerian scientists were already able to participate in the european union's framework programme for research and development (fprd). this new agreement will allow european scientists to participate in algerian research projects and will thus further strengthen our links with this central partner of our neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-algeria agreement on cooperation in science and technology. i support this agreement which allows the promotion of a knowledge society between the two parties, the exchange and protection of intellectual property rights, and above all the cooperation of researchers in joint projects and programmes which will, in the long term, allow for genuine mutual benefits in scientific and technological partnership.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon has enabled the european parliament to increase its powers, particularly in foreign policy and international agreements. the council, representing the member states, must now inform the european parliament throughout the procedure. this obligation requires the adoption of an interinstitutional agreement to lay down the conditions for such cooperation. i supported this text so that meps can have unreserved access to documents classified as 'eu confidential'. this is crucial because it will make the procedures more transparent and more democratic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it aims to facilitate access by members and staff of the european parliament to classified information on parliament's premises. it also allows access, depending on the case, to rapporteurs or any committee member. this report, while providing a high level of security and guarantee, implies greater transparency between the commission and the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on the transmission to the european parliament of classified information held by the council (excluding matters of common foreign and security policy). i am convinced that the european parliament must have access to all relevant documents and information in order to be able to fulfil its role. i therefore believe that it is time for the council and the european parliament to start negotiations to amend the 2002 interinstitutional agreement to better reflect the growing importance of the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text which allows members of parliament to have access to eu classified documents. this interinstitutional agreement sends a strong message to the citizens of the union. their representatives will now be able to benefit from a level of information enabling them to play on an equal footing in negotiations with the member states. this transparency therefore strengthens the role of the european parliament in the european decision-making process, to the benefit of everyone.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague gerald häfner in plenary. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament's powers have increased, particularly in the field of international agreements. the aim of this report is to lay down the detailed rules for cooperation between the council and parliament on the basis of an institutional agreement. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 587 votes in favour, 7 against and 6 abstentions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the council on the transmission to the european parliament and the treatment by the european parliament of classified information held by the council on matters other than those falling within the common foreign and security policy. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty implies the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement, which will in particular allow members access to classified information on parliament's premises.
in writing. the european union is often described as complex and difficult for citizens to understand. in 2003, an initiative to simplify the legislative and administrative process was adopted and the european parliament is actively preparing its revision 10 years later. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the principle of reducing administrative burdens must be introduced into european legislation as a matter of urgency.
in writing. i voted for this report on the better lawmaking report which aims to simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. this report proposes some sensible measures and i welcome its adoption. i particularly support the idea that it is crucial to update the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making in the light of the changing european legislative environment. i agree with the recommendation for measures concerning subsidiarity checks by national parliaments. i believe that follow-up must be ensured to improve legislation that can be improved and to combat over-regulation.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague sajjad karim. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the aim is for parliament to step up its efforts to simplify community legislation and to reduce administrative burdens. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. largely supported by the european parliament, this report provides for the establishment of a european strategy dedicated to the regions of the atlantic arc. many initiatives will be taken to strengthen the industrial competitiveness of these areas, sustainable fisheries, maritime energy, tourism and the shipping industries. in order to ensure their independence, these regions should benefit from major infrastructure projects with motorways of the sea and rail links to the centre of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the atlantic region in the context of the union's cohesion policy. this strategy is based on two main lines which i fully support: the development of maritime and terrestrial areas and the development of land and sea areas, on the one hand, and the stimulation of the economic fabric of the atlantic regions through an industrial policy adapted to their specificities, on the other.
in writing. i am pleased that the european strategy for the atlantic, as proposed by my ump colleague alain cadec, has been adopted by a large majority. this strategy, which will be launched in 2014, is making significant efforts to boost the atlantic territories of france, the united kingdom, ireland, spain and portugal. regional policy aims to help the most backward regions and to reduce disparities. but the crisis has not spared our regions and it is in favour of a fairer distribution of funding that the ump meps in the european parliament are mobilizing. with this roadmap, we should be able to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of maritime regions by concentrating efforts on strategic sectors: marine energy, the shipping industry, sustainable fisheries and tourism. by investing in motorways of the sea and rail links, the atlantic opens up to the centre of europe and creates opportunities for our coastal territories and their hinterland.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague alain cadec. this own-initiative report on the atlantic strategy under the eu's cohesion policy was adopted on 13 september and i welcome it. it is clear that the atlantic area is made up of a heterogeneous set of regions, many of which have not yet reached the average income level of the eu and therefore continue to fall within the convergence objective of cohesion policy. the report calls for the development of a macro-regional strategy and the creation of a permanent maritime spatial planning structure. finally, it seems essential to improve the connectivity of the atlantic regions with the rest of europe by means of investments in transport infrastructure in a multimodal way.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by alain cadec on the strategy for the atlantic region in the context of the union's cohesion policy. this report provides a useful basis for reflection on a future european atlantic strategy foreseen for 2014. the european parliament has put forward concrete proposals for an action plan which will give new life to the atlantic area through coordinated action at macro-regional level.
in writing. this report contains many ideas which are in line with those we are developing in the left front. the promotion of renewable marine energies, particularly in wave and tidal energy, is one example. this is a future choice in which states should invest. i support the idea of supporting sustainable tourism, training and access for young people to maritime professions and the creation of new specialties which can contribute to the sustainable development of fishing areas, the ambition to safeguard the ecological balance and biodiversity of the atlantic area, and public support for the modernisation of the fishing fleet. but i would like to express my strong disagreement with the idea of a macro-region conceived as a european competitive hub, just as i reject the idea that we have to bow to the wishes of private investors to protect the atlantic area. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. i supported this report on the development policy of the atlantic region, a highly contested territory as the western frontier of the union and a strategic and fragile maritime frontier. i am glad that my proposals have been accepted to ensure an integrated approach, which will enable several levers to be activated, particularly transport and tourism. let us not forget that it is essential to open up the atlantic regions, ensuring their cohesion, their services and the interconnection of economic centres and employment pools. i also stressed the need for effective and sustainable management of maritime, coastal and inland areas, highlighting their many assets and promoting harmonious land-sea interface design. i believe that we must also focus on tourism, which is a growth engine and a source of employment. this strategy will support the development of the atlantic region, striking a balance between preserving the environment and biodiversity, and creating wealth, competitiveness and attractiveness. in the future, i support the idea of a strategy to link the atlantic front to the mediterranean coast. it is in the spirit of our cohesion policy and it would be mutually beneficial for both these territories.
in writing. the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries have been granted by the european parliament an extension until 2016 of their preferential access to the european market. i chose to abstain in this vote, not fully agreeing with parliament's position which was contrary to the commission's position. some of these countries have reached sufficient levels of development. it is therefore no longer possible to grant them such benefits without creating an inequity with other of our trading partners at the intermediate and comparable level of development to these acp countries.
in writing. the european union is negotiating numerous economic partnership agreements with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries to facilitate their integration into international trade and to promote their development. pending the conclusion of these agreements, most acp countries enjoy significant trade preferences to facilitate the entry of their products into european markets. these preferences are theoretically valid until 2014, the date originally planned for the entry into force of the economic partnership agreements with the european union. however, some acp countries expressed the wish to benefit from these measures for a longer period before the agreements are concluded. by giving the green light to extend trade preferences for acp countries until 2016, the european union is thus enabling many acp countries to negotiate balanced economic partnership agreements without pressure.
in writing. this report endorses a new economic arsenal to put pressure on acp countries which refuse to ratify economic partnership agreements. postponing the date of application of the end of the trade preferences granted to these countries from 2014 to 2016 does not change the case. the idea that these countries should be plundered or punished is revolting. i denounce the blackmail being perpetrated by the european institutions. the acp countries are not colonies, much to the displeasure of the european commission. i vote against this despicable bill.
in writing. the trade preferences enjoyed by acp countries are a lifeline for some of them whose economies are not ready to face global liberalisation and full confrontation with the developed economies. whatever one may think of this forced liberalization, with its devastating consequences, the aim of the european parliament in this resolution is to extend the protection enjoyed by the acp countries through the so-called preferential agreements. this is not satisfactory, but the interests of the countries concerned are paramount in this case. i therefore voted, as did most of my group, in favour of this resolution, in the interests of the countries concerned.
in writing. this text, which i voted for, makes it possible to streamline the information provided by eu member states in energy negotiations with third countries. in order to avoid incompatibilities between community law and the provisions contained in these intergovernmental agreements, member states should forward them to the commission for verification. the commission may also, at the request of member states, assist them in energy negotiations with third states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it aims to put in place guarantees of transparency concerning intergovernmental exchanges. in practical terms, the member states will have to keep the commission informed of the progress of further negotiations and check the compatibility of the agreements with community law. i support these commitments, which are fully in line with the desire to coordinate better the activities of the union and the member states in the union's external relations. better regulation of the internal energy market is a key objective of the european union, since security of energy supply is a key factor.
in writing. while the european union is today the most relevant level for developing a genuine, strong and independent energy policy, it seems important to ensure a transparent dialogue with the various european actors concluding agreements with third countries in this strategic area. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which will strengthen confidence between the european actors.
in writing. until now, the number of intergovernmental agreements on energy between member states and third countries is unknown, as member states are not obliged to notify them to the commission. the commission believes that the member states are increasingly obliged to accept regulatory concessions, which is incompatible with european legislation on the subject. moreover, the commission, not knowing exactly what quantities of energy are imported, cannot foresee the vagaries of the market and therefore the means of overcoming them. the commission has therefore proposed to set up a mechanism for the exchange of information on energy agreements with third countries. the greens have tried to strengthen the proposal by allowing the commission to have access to the agreement before it is signed, so as to be able to advise the member states on its compatibility with the legislation. such a measure would also increase transparency. the states have not wanted to do this, and the rapporteur did not seem to mind, preferring a bad agreement rather than no agreement on the subject. i voted against this text.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of this text because i believe that this report strengthens the european energy policy in a difficult energy situation, with unstable balances and alliances. the aim here is to exchange information on agreements which may have an impact on the internal energy market or the security of our supplies, with a view to better coordinating our external energy policy. only intergovernmental agreements are concerned; agreements between commercial companies would not be subject to these provisions. this text strikes a good balance between the rights of member states to negotiate independently and the need for the european union to have a coherent and sound external energy policy: it is simply a matter of ensuring that no agreement is signed which goes against the energy needs of the european union. the most important thing in the implementation of this agreement is to respect the confidentiality of such agreements; as the players are fully aware of the issue, i am confident that the confidentiality of these files will not be compromised.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague krisjanis karins, which was adopted by 369 votes in favour. the report aims to establish a mechanism for exchanging information on intergovernmental agreements concluded between member states and third countries which may have an impact on the internal energy market or on the security of supply, in particular gas, oil and electricity. the establishment of this mechanism will improve transparency in the energy market and make it possible to anticipate the problems of energy supply that europe is suffering from. this tool will also help to strengthen legal certainty for our european companies in the energy market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements concluded between member states and third countries which may have an impact on the internal energy market or security of supply. this system will improve transparency in the energy market and anticipate problems in europe's energy supply. member states will have to submit to the commission all existing bilateral agreements with third countries.
in writing. not content with gaining control of national budgets and employment policies in the member states, the european commission now wants to control all energy agreements that member states conclude with third countries. this restriction of state sovereignty has one purpose: to impose by force the dogma of free and undistorted competition. no further energy agreements can therefore be signed without the approval of the european commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the authoritarian drift is reaching its peak. by simply removing the obligation on the states to inform the commission of the start of negotiations, this report violates the requirement of respect for the sovereignty of the elected representatives of the people which should be its own. on the contrary, the report exempts companies from any such control. they think the government is evil, the private sector is good. it's called ideological blindness. i vote against it.
in writing. as you know, i am particularly attached to the products of our land and that is why i supported this text to protect them better. the regulation provides for a system of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications. this will help to protect producers of products linked to a geographical area. a traditional speciality guaranteed label will be established. producers will be able to obtain it once they have proven that the product has been used on the domestic market for at least 30 years, up from 25 years currently. this label will help to safeguard not only traditional production methods but also recipes.
in writing. this week the european parliament voted on the garcia perez report on quality systems for agricultural products. the control of production volumes is an essential tool which must be made available to all the bodies responsible for the defence and management of pdos and pgi, as was provided for the cheese sector when the 'milk package' was adopted last march. this will enable them to maintain the high level of quality and added value of their products and to avoid market imbalances. unfortunately, this provision, which has the support of a majority in parliament, has not been able to be agreed with the council and the commission. other aspects of the 'quality package' are, however, real progress, for example in terms of protection against misappropriation or shortening procedures. the council, divided on this issue, agreed, however, to state in a statement that this debate was not concluded, but merely referred back to the discussions on the reform of the single market organization.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to simplify the quality systems for agricultural products. i believe that the commission's proposal is a good basis but that it is possible to achieve even greater clarity and a more complete quality system. i am also convinced that strengthening the existing schemes and adding new quality labels, which can add value to the best european products, must be among our priorities.
in writing. control of production volumes is an essential tool to be made available to all the bodies responsible for the defence and management of pdos and pgi, as was provided for the cheese sector when the 'milk package' was adopted last march. this will enable them to maintain the high level of quality and added value of their products and to avoid market imbalances. unfortunately, this provision, which has the support of a majority in parliament, has not been able to be agreed with the council and the commission. other aspects of the 'quality package' are, however, real progress, for example in terms of protection against misappropriation or shortening procedures. the council, divided on this issue, agreed, however, to state in a statement that this debate was not concluded, but merely referred back to the discussions on the reform of the single market organization. i do not therefore wish to call into question the agreement reached with the council, which would block the adoption of the text and put the debate on the management of volumes into a permanent rut. i shall therefore vote against the amendment authorizing this device, which i fully support.
in writing. there are currently three quality labels for agricultural products in the european union (pgi, aoc, gst). the commission is planning to reform the system in order to simplify it or to facilitate new registrations. the greens felt it was important to take advantage of this reversal to encourage the emergence of a new label for 'local farming and short-distance farming'. we also wanted to introduce a 'mountain' label to highlight the high added value of products from these areas where agriculture is mostly traditional and extensive. the vote in the committee on agriculture was on both measures, which we welcomed. however, in the trilogue negotiations with the council and the commission, meps representing parliament have touted the label 'local farming and short circuits', which is important in encouraging this kind of farming practice. that is why i voted against this text, which was initially encouraging.
in writing. i denounce the retreat of all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the gue/ngl and the greens/efa, in the face of the pressure from the european council. they agreed to remove the possibility for producer organisations to ask their national government to regulate their production. they have backed away from establishing a label for local farming and direct selling. the committee on agriculture had approved these two major advances! the principles of liberalism and free trade will continue to take precedence over the general economic and ecological interests. we did not expect less from the right wing, but we are entitled to question the decision taken by the social democrats. i abstain to denounce this despicable renunciation.
in writing. i abstained on the 'quality package', which includes a proposal for a regulation on quality schemes for agricultural products and a proposal on marketing standards. these texts are part of the revision of the quality policy for agricultural products. they have positive elements: recognition of the high value properties of products (labels) and their regional specificity, place of origin, emphasis on european symbols in particular. however, if such measures contribute to consumer information, they are nevertheless part of the policy of liberalization of the agricultural sector. in practical terms, it prevents farmers from supplying quality products and threatens the survival of entire regions. as long as the general direction of this policy remains unchanged, any measures to increase the value of production and to mark consumption will be purely cosmetic.
in writing. one in four new businesses created in the eu today is a social enterprise. in other words, it seeks to generate a positive social impact for our citizens. as rapporteur on this project, i can only welcome the unwavering support i have received from the european parliament. the sector, which accounts for more than 11 million jobs in europe, should finally be awarded a european label for solidarity investment. investment funds that invest at least 70% in solidarity enterprises will be eligible for the label. social entrepreneurship thus has a real lever for growth, which is crucial in these times of economic depression.
in writing. i am pleased that parliament has largely supported the rapid introduction of the european solidarity investment label. the adoption of this regulation bodes well for the establishment, in the near future, of a social label for all enterprises, not just for investment funds for social enterprises. we should see the adoption of this text as a first step towards encouraging and identifying socially responsible enterprises, which could attract new investors. because, knowing that the solidarity investment market is estimated at €1 billion, this can only encourage all companies to become a little more socially virtuous and to make this known through a 'european social label' as i have had adopted by the employment committee in the programme for social change and innovation and in the recast of the esf regulation.
in writing. the competitiveness of enterprises is an element of the economic recovery in europe. in these times of crisis, however, access to finance for firms is difficult. there is a solidarity investment market in europe which today represents one billion euros. this market is a growth lever which deserves to be fully exploited. social enterprises, i.e. those whose primary objective is to generate a positive social impact, employ 11 million employees. the european parliament, on a proposal from the commission, has therefore logically decided to support the creation of a european label for solidarity investment which will benefit investment funds which invest a minimum of 70% in social enterprises. by proposing this investment instrument, the european parliament hopes to contribute to stimulating the market and to encourage more investment in social entrepreneurship.
in writing. social enterprises are enterprises whose main purpose is not to make a profit but to generate a positive social impact, such as the integration of vulnerable or marginalised people. beyond grants, they need other sources of funding to help them achieve their mission and thus improve our social market economy. it is in this context that my colleague sophie auconie's report proposes the creation of a european passport for european social entrepreneurship funds. the report was adopted partially by a large majority (no vote on the legislative resolution). the aim is to enable the rapporteur to launch negotiations with the council with a view to reaching an agreement at first reading.
in writing. the european solidarity investment label would respond to the growing desire of investors to invest their money in support of solidarity actions and not just looking at financial returns. if accepted, the agreement would lay down rules to give investors assurance on the functioning of these funds through a label on european social entrepreneurship funds.
in writing. the aim of this regulation is to channel funds towards the social economy. it's far from satisfactory. its almost complete similarity to that on venture capital funds says much about the importance of the social economy in the eyes of the european commission. the few safeguards which parliament proposes remain too weak. the possibility that the latter offers these funds to finance companies financing or supporting social economy enterprises, but without being themselves social enterprises, raises fears of deviations. the possibility for any fund to register and operate throughout the european union without the need to obtain prior authorization also opens the door to the usual abuses. i do not want to impede the development of the social and solidarity economy. but i condemn the deviations that this regulation makes possible. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. together with the amendment to the financial transparency directive currently under consideration in parliament, this proposal forms part of a package of measures to promote corporate social responsibility adopted by the european commission at the beginning of the year. this easily identifiable label, granted to investment funds that invest in socially responsible enterprises in the majority, should help to meet the needs for transparency and fairness that more and more citizens have expressed since the beginning of the crisis. it will also stimulate economic sectors which are still under-exploited. that is why i supported these proposals in the plenary.
in writing. venture capital provides finance to companies that are still small but have a high potential for growth and innovation. when the us raised €131 billion between 2003 and 2010, european venture capital funds managed to raise only €28 billion. this lack of available funds is a major obstacle to european competitiveness and job creation. in addition to my initiative in favour of social entrepreneurship, i strongly support the rapporteur, philippe lamberts, in his efforts to secure and standardise this venture capital market in europe.
in writing. this report supports the commission's proposal to offer a european passport to all venture capital funds, whether european or from a third country, from the moment they register in one of the member states. the only limitation on this is the prohibition on being established in a country recognised as a tax haven. there is no mention of the penalties for infringements of these funds. however, it is clear that they will only be implemented by the member state responsible for registration. the state which is at fault for this authorization would therefore be in the best position to punish the consequences of its proposals? the whole of the european union is thus at the mercy of the euro, at least in terms of financial security. of course, this ultra-liberal report even accepts that these venture capital funds can value their assets according to their own criteria, effectively preventing any reliable expertise. i vote against this dangerous bill.
in writing. in june 2012, the european union, colombia and peru concluded an association agreement. as a precautionary measure, a safeguard clause was added to allow the original customs tariffs to be re-established in certain circumstances. this is particularly the case for goods imported in such significant quantities that they cause (or threaten to cause) serious injury to the union industry producing a like or directly competing product. parliament thus wished to activate the stabilisation mechanism for bananas which allows, until 1 january 2020, to suspend preferential tariff treatment when a certain annual volume of imports is reached. the main concern here is the banana producers in the outermost regions, who could be affected by this agreement.
in writing. while ratification of the trade agreement with colombia and peru is under consideration, safeguard measures for the european banana sector have been adopted for good reason. if the colombia-peru free trade agreement is ratified by the european parliament in the autumn, it will therefore be accompanied by a specific clause protecting european banana producers, and in particular those in the french overseas territories. more specifically, if european banana producers suffer serious damage as a result of the opening of trade with colombia and peru, the reduced customs duties provided for under the trade agreement would be increased. this is essential to protect our european producers, since the union is the most important market for banana exports and already 72.5% of the bananas sold in the union come from latin america.
in writing. i supported the adoption of these measures to protect an industry which sometimes concluded agreements which no longer needed to be applied. this stabilization mechanism will make it possible, in particular, to control more closely the volume of products circulating freely within the internal market, thus limiting excessive speculation which endangers our producers. it is with these provisions that the union supports our industries and avoids the temptation to use a labour force that is cheaper but also less qualified.
in writing. while it is expected to ratify the eu-colombia/peru free trade agreement shortly, the european parliament has just voted on a text introducing safeguard clauses for the banana sector. safeguard clauses allow normal customs duties to be temporarily re-established or the process of tariff liberalization to be suspended. the text acknowledges that there are problems with labour rights in the countries concerned, even if this recognition is insufficient. the rapporteur also calls for greater consideration of social and environmental aspects in the context of future economic liberalisation. the commission must hear this message. the texts also make clear the need to take greater account of the economies of the overseas countries, of which the banana sector is one of the pillars. this vote should not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and sustainable economy. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the report by my colleague mr lange was adopted by a large majority in plenary on 13 september. the bilateral agreements with latin american countries serve european commercial interests. however, the concessions granted on bananas are likely to weaken the french overseas banana production chain, which is essential for the economic development of our overseas departments. the report proposes that a stabilisation mechanism be set up to suspend preferential customs duties when exports from latin american countries exceed the maximum volumes provided for in the agreements.
in writing. in june 2012, the european union concluded an association agreement with central america. as a precautionary measure, a safeguard clause was added to allow the original customs tariffs to be re-established in certain circumstances. this is particularly the case for goods imported in such significant quantities that they cause (or threaten to cause) serious injury to the union industry producing a like or directly competing product. parliament thus wished to activate the stabilisation mechanism for bananas which allows, until 1 january 2020, to suspend preferential tariff treatment when a certain annual import volume is reached. the main concern here is the banana producers in the outermost regions, who could be affected by this agreement.
in writing. the community banana, mainly produced in the west indies, réunion and the azores, is the livelihood of thousands of small european growers. it faces competition from the dollar banana, produced in particular in central america under sometimes questionable social and environmental conditions and at a very competitive cost price. it is therefore essential for the european union to have mechanisms to protect the european banana. if the association agreement with central america is ratified by the european parliament in the coming months, it will be accompanied by a specific clause allowing for a temporary increase in customs duties on central american bananas in the event of excessive imports seriously harming european producers.
in writing. i supported the adoption of these measures to protect an industry which sometimes made the fees for agreements no longer applicable. this stabilization mechanism will make it possible, in particular, to control more closely the volume of products circulating freely within the internal market, thus limiting excessive speculation which endangers our producers. it is with these provisions that the union supports our industries and avoids the temptation to resort to a labour force that is not only cheaper but also less qualified!
in writing. the european parliament has just voted on a text introducing safeguard clauses for the banana sector, as part of the association agreement with central america. safeguard clauses make it possible to temporarily re-establish normal customs duties or to suspend the process of tariff liberalization. the text acknowledges that there are problems with labour rights in the countries concerned, even if this recognition is insufficient. the rapporteur also calls for greater consideration of social and environmental aspects in the context of future economic liberalisation. the commission must hear this message. the texts also make clear the need to take greater account of the economies of the overseas countries, of which the banana sector is one of the pillars. this vote should not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and sustainable economy. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the report by my colleague mr leichtfried was adopted by a large majority in plenary on 13 september. the bilateral agreements with latin american countries serve european commercial interests. however, the concessions granted on bananas are likely to weaken the french overseas banana production chain, which is essential for the economic development of our overseas departments. the report proposes that a stabilisation mechanism be set up to suspend preferential customs duties when exports from latin american countries exceed the maximum volumes provided for in the agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amended proposal for a regulation because it will allow for a more precise monitoring of banana imports through close surveillance under the stabilisation mechanism, which can be triggered automatically. this will allow for more effective protection of european banana producers, particularly french producers. in addition, the european parliament itself may request the opening of an investigation to trigger the implementation of the safeguard mechanism by adopting a resolution.
in writing. copyright protection is one of the central issues in the european union's digital strategy. orphan works are protected by copyright, but the owner of the copyright has not been identified or located. by supporting this text, i wanted to create a framework for institutions whose missions are in the public interest (archives, libraries, museums, etc.) to become the sole beneficiaries of these orphan works. the beneficiaries may only receive revenues from the use of such works in the context of their public interest missions and only for the purpose of covering their costs of digitising and making available such orphan works.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this text, which will make it possible to better protect the use of works within the union. more than ever, the need for policymakers to take account of the needs of the industry is crucial to its survival.
in writing. i have given my full support to the report by my colleague lidia goeringer of oedenberg so that we finally have clear legislation that gives public institutions, such as museums and libraries, legal certainty in the online use and dissemination of orphan works whose rights holders are difficult to identify. it is not acceptable that public institutions should have to conceal work for fear of retaliation under the current rules of intellectual property, with very expensive lawsuits involved. culture and creativity are not just a matter of the market. by making works available for our archives, based on the rule of law, we are moving towards an ever more necessary redefinition of intellectual property, and we should welcome this.
in writing. the report by my colleague lidia geringer of oedenberg was adopted by a large majority, with 531 votes in favour, 11 against and 65 abstentions. i am very pleased with this result. orphan works are works protected by copyright or related rights and whose owner has not been identified or located. the aim of this report is to establish a legal framework to guarantee online access to orphan works across borders and in full compliance with the law.
in writing. we have adopted a directive that responds perfectly to the challenges of the digital age in which we live. more specifically, it is the digitisation of cultural material concerning orphan works, i.e. works whose rights holder cannot be identified or located. without the permission of the copyright holder, these works are not accessible to the public. we therefore wanted to allow libraries, educational institutions, museums and archives to provide specific services within the single market which involve the online placement of orphan works. however, in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which was consulted for its opinion, we wanted to clarify the copyright situation in order to avoid any abuse. i take this opportunity to emphasise that copyright remains the foundation of innovation, creation, investment and production in all creative industries. in voting in favour of this text on orphan works, i have therefore fully supported the promotion of the union's cultural diversity and the multiplication of sources of knowledge and learning through supervised access to orphan works at union level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on orphan works, which will allow for a better dissemination of cultural works through their digitisation. in some member states, works for which the rightholders cannot be located or identified cannot be made available online by libraries or other public bodies. now there is a framework, with measures in case a rights holder comes to light.
in writing. this draft directive attempts to reconcile copyright with the making available of orphan works for cultural or educational purposes. by combining the obligation to actually search for the authors of the work before it is distributed, the obligation to properly remunerate them, even if they are discovered after the distribution of their work, and the obligation to use orphan works only for public interest missions, this report does a fairly good job of this conciliation. i vote for it.
in writing. in view of the particularly unfavourable situation in pakistan since the 2010 floods, the european parliament wanted to support the recovery of its economy. it will temporarily be able to export more goods duty-free to europe. this exceptional measure will apply until the end of 2013 and will cover the textile, clothing, linen, leather and ethanol sectors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of emergency autonomous trade preferences to pakistan. following the heavy monsoon rains that caused major landslides in pakistan in 2010, the european union decided to put in place support measures for the territory. this support is reflected in the temporary agreement on increased access to the union market through exemption from customs duties or tariff quotas for certain products, mainly from the textile sector, which accounts for the majority of trade between the union and pakistan. however, these trade preferences cannot be without guarantees of respect for human rights in return for such aid. furthermore, it appears essential to limit the period of application of the autonomous trade preferences to 31 december 2013 in order to allow the commission to fully assess the impact of the measures.
in writing. pakistan's economy has been in tatters since the severe floods that hit the country in 2010. in order to promote economic recovery in its worst affected regions, pakistan will be able to export more duty-free goods to europe, including in the textile, ethanol and leather sectors, until the end of 2013. the european union's trade policy cannot be used as a humanitarian aid instrument in the long term, but there are some exceptional circumstances which may justify one-off trade facilitations. the agreement also provides that if pakistan takes any action in the coming months that infringes human rights, the eu must immediately suspend these trade facilitations.
in writing. this resolution condemns the massacres perpetrated by the syrian regime and possible crimes against humanity authorised or perpetrated by the syrian army, security forces and armed groups. it calls on bashar al-assad to leave power to allow a peaceful transition. it declares its support for syrians fighting for democracy. it calls on the regime to allow truces to guarantee the delivery of humanitarian aid to the syrians. in that sense, i support it. but it is unacceptable that this resolution suggests the use of foreign military intervention under the guise of the 'responsibility to protect' and proposes the creation of humanitarian corridors (which involve the sending of military troops) to the syrian border or even inside syria itself. it is even less acceptable that it proposes to bypass the un framework to set up such corridors. and what about the interference it promises by asking the eu, turkey, lebanon, jordan, the arab league and the syrian opposition to prepare for a peaceful transition in syria? i am voting against this text.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the establishment of a banking union. the commission presented its draft banking supervision proposal on 12 september, and parliament took the opportunity to comment on the subject. better supervision of the banking sector, in particular through the ecb and the eba (european banking authority), is essential if new financial crises are to be prevented and the euro area is to be stabilised in the long term. but what we have mainly wanted to stress in this text is the imperative need for parliament's prerogatives to be respected in these future arrangements. the specific tasks to be assigned to the ecb and eba must be subject to strict democratic control, otherwise the banking union project would be devoid of substance. we will be uncompromising on this point.
in writing. the resolution has the merit of proclaiming a common sense statement: "it is essential to break the link between banks and the state". unfortunately, she doesn't get any consequences. it makes no reference to the proposal to allow the ecb to lend directly to the states, which alone are capable of solving the problem. this view is supported by a growing number of european economists and politicians. but the committee on economic and monetary affairs obviously has no ears. i denounce this unheard of blindness. i am also pleased that the resolution recalls that a european banking authority with the same objectives as the 'banking union' that we are hearing about was already created in 2010, and that it denounces the exclusion of the european parliament from the process of creating the banking union that the european council is trying to impose. therefore, i abstain.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will all be united in condemning such a flagrant violation of human rights and such a rampage of violence, which remind south africa of the darkest hours of its history. i would like to stress that south africa, which is often presented as a model of democracy, has an opportunity today to show us that it can apply the basic principles of democracy, namely impartial justice and respect for the rule of law. i therefore welcome the fact that a commission of inquiry has been set up to shed light on the tragic events of 16 august, but it seems to me essential that we also condemn the use of the common purpose law, inherited from apartheid, which has only further crystallized anger in the country. in south africa, as in many african states, the wealth of the underground contrasts with the growing poverty of a part of the population. the community, which is eager for change, sees social inequalities growing and a new economic apartheid taking place with the fall of the apartheid regime. the sharing of natural resources remains a key issue on the african continent, and multinational corporations must assume their responsibilities in the current conflicts. europe must therefore promote further economic and human development in these regions by preventing the import of mined products without any social and environmental safeguards. finally, i would add that this situation should make us think, because in south africa, as elsewhere in the world, democracy does not only mean free elections, but also more social justice.
author. - mr president, i am not going to blame you for once that the gue/ngl group came third! it's all right, it's all right. the end of apartheid and the coming to power of nelson mandela in 1994 gave a great hope to the world. yet, fifteen years later, for thousands of south africans, the hope of emancipation is far from fulfilled. after years of self-rule, south africa has embarked on globalization and sought to integrate into the world capitalist economy - but at a cost. more than 50% of south africans share less than 8% of the country's income, while 10% own 58% of its wealth. you don't have to tell me where the white people are and where the black people are. yes, there is economic apartheid. all this comes at a price and this summer's strike in the maricana gold mines, which brought together thousands of miners, black and white together, was the revelation of this social failure. the unprecedented violence with which the south african police reacted, resulting in dozens of deaths, is completely unacceptable, as is the subsequent judicial repression which hit the miners themselves. political authorities, including president zuma, seem to have reacted since then. we can only applaud and encourage this process to continue, but let us not forget that this was not an isolated event and that in 2010 alone, police violence claimed more than 858 lives. i welcome the balanced resolution we are about to vote on. let's hope she helps change this country!
author. - mr president, since 2011, the burmese authorities have shown some signs of openness. it wasn't hard, considering where we were going, but let's not be fooled. the inter-confessional violence that has struck the rakhine state, and especially the repression that has followed, is intolerable. they reveal, once again, the plight of the rohingya minority, one of the most persecuted on the planet, according to the un. on july 12th, president thein sein himself dared to declare that the only solution to stop the violence was to expel the rohingya and in early august, the dhaka authorities expelled three charities helping the rohingya. i'll just paraphrase, in closing, an official from human rights watch. what would have been the international community's reaction before the so-called changes? it seems blinded by the signing of trade agreements and continues to lift sanctions, even though abuses continue. it's all about the comments.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the violence which broke out last may between buddhist and muslim communities in rakhine state was indeed tragic. it led to loss of life, damage to property including schools and places of worship and, at its peak, 100 000 people were driven from their homes. this was all the more disappointing since the remarkable changes in myanmar have so far been peaceful. moreover, it highlighted the plight of the rohingyas and the ingrained prejudice against them going back to colonial times. our concern is finding a better future for the rohingyas in the new myanmar. for many years the eu has supported stateless and deprived rohingya in northern rakhine state. since 2007, echo has spent about eur 24 million for that purpose. in their conclusions in april, eu foreign ministers recalled the need to clarify the legal status and improve the welfare of the rohingya population. on behalf of the high representative/vice president, i therefore welcome the willingness of the government to listen to the concerns of the international community, as expressed by the border affairs minister in recent contacts with eu diplomats in myanmar. he has invited the un country team and international diplomats to a dialogue on this matter later this month at a workshop in the capital nay pyi taw. the government should have the space to deal with the situation as an internal matter, but there are external implications since it affects our interests and values and shapes myanmar’s image abroad. thus, in ongoing contacts with the government, the high-representative/vice-president has passed on the following messages: first, we expect myanmar to adhere to international standards as regards human rights, citizenship and treatment of detainees. second, humanitarian access should continue to be improved, particularly in areas of northern rakhine state where interventions have been suspended due to the violence. some 60 000 people still remain in temporary camps. as made clear by echo, the eu is ready and willing to help all those who have been affected by the violence. the government has allowed official visits by the international community, including the eu, to rakhine state. that was most welcome, to establish facts and a common understanding of the challenges ahead. but more could be done to help counter negative perceptions, for example through access for local and international media. the government has publicly stated that the solution has to lie inside myanmar. both communities have to learn again how to peacefully co-exist alongside each other. the president’s establishment of the independent rakhine investigation commission with a mandate to propose medium- and long-term solutions is a step in this direction. the commission is due to report by mid-november 2012. we hope this report will be made public. a permanent separation of the communities should be avoided; a solution must involve finding ways of reintegrating both communities. the government should reach out to civil society and dialogue to build bridges between the communities in the context of an inclusive, common myanmar identity. bearing in mind the large number of the rohingya in bangladesh and worries about the refugees in the camps, we hope that the two governments will soon begin talking to each other about how to bring things forward.
author. - mr president, the resolution before us today is one of those texts on which we are negotiating in a rather surreal way. for reasons i cannot understand, the alde has withdrawn its signature. but the facts are there. the hungarian government has yielded to longstanding pressure from the azerbaijani authorities to accept the transfer of ramil safarov, who committed a heinous crime against a young armenian lieutenant, gurgen margaryan, and was sentenced to life imprisonment for it. upon his return home, safarov was considered a national hero and was immediately pardoned and even rewarded. relations between azerbaijan and armenia did not need this. the european union should not accept that one of its member states should do this: add fuel to the fire instead of working, like others, on the negotiating efforts to finally find a solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. i am less diplomatic than mrs de keyser, and i would say that we are unfortunately used to seeing mr orban sit on the values and positions of the european union when it suits him.
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, we are approaching the 2013 budget with a political objective and a methodological objective. the political objective is to finance the commitments already made, and in particular to give a positive follow-up to the growth pact adopted by the european council last june. the european council last week stressed the slow pace of its implementation. we believe that this will require a minimum budget, a focus on research and development programmes, academic exchanges and innovation of category 1a. secondly, we have a methodological objective: to deal with payment appropriations on a technical, not a political, basis. the level of payments has been a poison in the budget debate for the last three years. it should never have become a political issue. if it has become so, it is because the administrative pipeline was poorly designed. it works badly in the national capitals, then between the national capitals and brussels, and then in brussels itself. we are making a concrete proposal to parliament: to invite each country to centralize its payment requests within a single authority. this central authority would verify the level of needs, certify them, make them public and officially transmit them to brussels. the commissioner would have to add to the figures. and the political authorities, ministers on the one hand and members of parliament on the other, would negotiate again on the strictly political aspect of the budget, namely the commitment appropriations. at the moment, important programmes such as the social fund, rural development, innovation, the research framework programme and erasmus are being paid off. as the commissioner has said, we cannot leave the union in a situation which no government wanted and which no citizen can understand.
mr president, i should like to comment on the paragraphs on the organization of parliament and the seat. it is stated in paragraph 86 that parliament believes that, like any directly elected parliament, the european parliament should have the right to decide on its seat. that is a mistake, mr president. i would ask that, in accordance with the appropriate procedures, we can withdraw what is an error. the bundestag decided of its own accord to move its seat from bonn to berlin, but constitutional and political practices in the member states vary enormously. in my own member state, it is an ordinance that determines the seat of the national assembly and the senate. then there are paragraphs that call for studies on the savings to be made. as far as the carbon footprint is concerned, the strasbourg headquarters has exactly the same one as if it were in brussels. as for the economies, i think we should include a study of all the headquarters of the european union: the central bank in frankfurt, the medicines agency in london, the european banking authority in london, the patent office in munich, etc. if we are to do a study, let us do it on all the seats of the european union, without, please, systematically stigmatising the european parliament.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, i would like to thank in particular our rapporteur, but also our fictitious rapporteurs, in particular those of the libe committee and the committee on culture. i would like to say 'what a long way we have come!' because at least the discussions with the council under the danish presidency had started badly. it must be said that the original proposal was unacceptable to parliament. we could not accept a european year of citizens in which we did not talk about citizenship, about how citizens can be better involved in the functioning of our institutions, in the definition of european union policies that give them their full place. and we know we still have work to do. we could not accept the argument that the growing gap between the european institutions and their citizens was only due to the fact that citizens did not recognise their rights to free movement. we know what's going on. the european citizen cannot be seen as a mere consumer who does not know his rights and who is given an appointment every five years for the european elections. education and culture have their place in this debate. i hope that we are setting a milestone here, to open the great project of european citizenship, while respecting, of course, the competences of each member state. my only regret is that we couldn't afford it. i thank the cypriot presidency for being here and for having incorporated this priority into ... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2013 will be the year of european citizenship, the european year of citizens, and this will be 20 years after the creation of european citizenship, and as we have said on several occasions this evening, one year before the european parliament is renewed. it is therefore a very symbolic year, a very serious one, especially in the present context. the latest surveys show, in fact, since autumn 2009, a very worrying trend, very noticeable on the ground, to a significant, very strong loss of confidence in the action and the community acquis, especially in the field of rights and freedoms, within the european union. in the face of this, the essential question has always been and remains the need to consolidate a european identity, to succeed in establishing a sense of common belonging, to really succeed in drawing the contours of this european citizen applicable to all europeans. it is certainly through more information, more dialogue, more meetings, more exchanges, more sharing that this announced objective can be achieved in 2013. i am pleased with the quality of the text, but i would have liked our institutions to have chosen and decided with determination to give themselves the means to achieve their objectives and thereby to have shown a strong political will to put into practice what they say. so while i welcome the results achieved, particularly by our colleague papadopoulou, with determination, in the negotiations, particularly with regard to the extension of the scope of this year to include citizens, the decision-making process, the european civil dialogue, etc., i have a strong reservation about the ridiculous budget allocated to this european year, the smallest ever allocated to a european year. while the task is immense, i regret that the council and some members of the committee on budgets have refused to give funds to this year, which is undoubtedly one of the most important, and which should, in my view, be considered the union's first priority, because without european citizens, there is no europe and we cannot build europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will no longer be able to make europe without its citizens. 2013 will be the european year of citizens. that's good news. this is a real challenge and we must find the means to make this year, in the difficult context of the european union, in the face of disaffection and lack of confidence, the year of european citizenship on a daily basis. we must send the message to the citizens, who are the reason for our presence here, that parliament and the european union do not take their rights lightly, that they are at the heart and in the everyday of all our decisions. we need a campaign that lives up to the challenge. the budget must not be cut back on this subject if we do not want the gap between the union and its citizens to widen further. the action programme will have to be ambitious. the tools of participatory democracy must be developed and disseminated: petitions, access to the ombudsman, european citizens' initiatives, citizens' forums, consultations, etc. i regret to note that the rights and tools of participatory democracy are not recognised by our citizens. in 2013, let us put citizens back at the heart of our institutions and, with them, let us put europe back at the heart of our territories.
mr president, we must make a statement before this european year of citizens, especially after what we have just heard from our colleagues in the ecr. when member states talk about citizenship, they can easily fall into nationalism. when member states talk about europe, they can also fall into nationalism. this is why, for the european year of citizenship, europe should focus its discourse more on themes that differentiate it from the member states. citizens have many difficulties, which often come to the attention of the committee on petitions. the european union's information campaign will have to demonstrate, i think, that europe sometimes does as much for its citizens in their daily lives as its own member states do.
in writing. i supported this report so that 2013 could be declared the european year of citizens. since its inception 20 years ago, european citizenship has given citizens a wide range of rights: the right to vote in local elections, consular protection abroad, compensation in the event of flight delays or cancellations, the right to interpretation in foreign trials, freedom of movement, etc. however, these rights are still too little known. this european year will be an opportunity to highlight the rights of european citizens so that everyone knows their rights and can assert them throughout europe.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr goerens for his excellent report. we all know it here: the european union provides more than half of the world's total official development assistance, and yet, as we approach the mdg deadline in 2015, even though some of the targets seem to have been met, we have to ask ourselves how we can improve our aid, make it more consistent with our trade policy, with our agricultural policy and with our foreign policy. the future of european development policy must be based on specific, measurable commitments and a short- and medium-term timetable. the economic crisis, climate change, the power of emerging countries, land grabbing, all of these are forcing us to set new priorities: food security, access to energy resources and access to health care. there is a european consensus, but we need to rethink the european and international institutional systems in environmental and social matters, taking inspiration from decision-making bodies such as the wto. finally, and most importantly, we must explain to our fellow citizens that the development of third countries is not only charity and solidarity, but also a source of development for us. just look at the markets that are opening up for europeans in the emerging countries: china, brazil and india. 2015 will also be an opportunity to take better account of the geostrategic developments of recent years, because today's emerging countries were, until recently, developing countries. now, as economic powers, these countries must also contribute to international aid. the european union must be the promoter of responsible development aid at european and international level. the year 2015 will be more than a deadline, it will be a unique opportunity to rethink development aid, not as simple financial assistance, but as support for socially and environmentally responsible development projects. i therefore join my colleagues from the other groups and those from the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions in calling for 2015 to be designated the european year of development and, above all, of responsible development.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, among all the subjects we are discussing, i will emphasize one: africa. it is on the african continent that all these questions are most acutely raised. africa also has the greatest potential. you see, the demographic has this duality in it. in less than 40 years, the population of the african continent will almost double. can we turn this dynamic into a lever for human progress and development, or, on the contrary, will our failure to eradicate poverty make it an incredible force for destabilizing the world on all levels? i am convinced that development aid is not a simple charity policy or a policy of misery. no, you can't! a genuine development policy must also be an investment in the future, which supports a great ambition for africa itself, an ambition also for our continent. the future growth of the european union depends on it, china has understood this, and world peace depends on it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr goerens on this excellent report. given the current difficult economic and budgetary period, it is all the more essential to ensure that aid is spent efficiently and produces the best possible results. resources must be better targeted where they are most needed to reduce this poverty. we need to think more about a differentiated approach to the modalities of aid. in its agenda for change, the commission proposes to target its aid in particular on agriculture, giving priority to locally developed practices and focusing on small farms. it is therefore imperative that the commission effectively targets its aid on the agricultural and nutrition sectors in the 2014-2020 programming exercise. in addition, effective poverty reduction also requires strengthening the synergies and strategic linkages between humanitarian and development aid, which are a necessary condition for building resilience and engaging in a sustainable development process. so 2015 must be the year of development, i mean sustainable development.
mr president, the agenda for change proposed by the commission raises, in my view, many questions, the main one being the practical implementation of the principle of differentiation. the commission wants the choice of countries in which the european union will invest its development aid to be based on the mechanical application of the simple per capita wealth criterion from 2014. as mrs ashton has said, these are not just accounting issues but they deserve a real political debate on the definition of our priorities for international cooperation. in my view, this differentiated approach is not in keeping with the spirit of the cotonou agreement. i am convinced that acp countries which have achieved positive economic performance should be encouraged in their transition towards more sustainable growth; they should not be unduly penalized for having achieved growth through discipline, good governance and prudent economic policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just returned from hyderabad, india, where the 11th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity was held. our parliament was represented there alongside the commission and the council. the challenge of this summit was important: to define the financing modalities of the plan to save the living 2010-2020, adopted two years ago in nagoya. we got hot; the negotiations were difficult but a new milestone has been reached in the field of seas and oceans and with the commitment to double funding for biodiversity by 2015. after the disappointment of the rio summit, it's a relief. the european union and the international community are still capable of environmental voluntarism. but the crisis in the state of biodiversity calls for intensified efforts and commitment to preserve our natural capital, now and here in the budget, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and, soon, we will be debating the fight against bio-piracy and the ratification of the nagoya protocol. i call on you to stand together to demonstrate once again the european parliament's ambition and responsibility for european and global bio-justice.
in writing. the report makes a sad and hard to refute observation: we are far from the targets set for 2004 and 2009. the single european sky is expected to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes and create 328 000 jobs, despite the slowdown in growth in the sector caused by the crisis and the increase in fuel prices. however, aware of this situation, i am considering whether to impose sanctions on states that have not fulfilled their commitments by the december 2012 deadline. the establishment of functional airspace blocks is a very ambitious national sovereignty objective, and involves bringing together navigation control systems from different structures and cultures, which requires time to ensure a safe transition. i would rather advocate incentives, and i think that before presenting a new 'legislative package' when it is not yet properly implemented, it is urgent to wait and make serious assessments.
mr president, this is about the interpretation of rule 191. i imagine, since there was no announcement, there was no objection to this interpretation. i wanted to make sure, for the sake of democracy in our parliament, that there was no retroactive effect and that this did not affect the terms of office and political consents that had been given in the committees, and that this rule would apply to the renewal of future terms of office in the parliamentary committees concerned.
chairman of the budg committee. - (deputy rapporteur jean-luc dehaene) mr president, thank you for the kind words you have just spoken to our delegation. mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, in addition to what our rapporteurs have said, i would like to stress two key points for parliament. firstly, parliament believes that there will be no agreement on the multiannual budgetary framework without a political agreement on the reform of resources. an agreement on the principle of this reform, on the review of the correction mechanisms, on the new own resources and on the timetable for implementation. the case is now heard. no democrat can defend the current system of financing the european budget. the reductions enjoyed by some countries are contrary to justice. they simply reflect the power relations of the past. the annual decision-making procedure is beyond any political debate and parliamentary scrutiny. none of us in this house, no matter what institution we belong to, is able to explain to our constituents how the amount of their national contribution is calculated. eighteen months ago, even the mention of the subject was considered utopian. today, the burden of proof is on the defenders of the status quo. the commission and the cypriot presidency should be thanked for this. unfortunately, the real negotiation on the content of the reform has not really started. there is still a lot of work to be done to reach a comprehensive agreement on the multiannual framework within a month. this is a key point for our parliament. the second key point i would like to raise is the maintenance of budgetary unity. the european council last week mandated president van rompuy to put the idea of 'a budgetary capacity for the euro area' into practice at the european council in december. it is stated that this would have no connection with the negotiation of the union budget. i want to say it. if we think that this subject is completely out of place in today's negotiations, we are talking about exactly the same thing. we're talking about the same thing on the expenditure side. the idea, according to its proponents, is to give extra help to member states which are making painful efforts to consolidate their budgets. that's good! the cohesion fund or the globalisation adjustment fund are being reinvented. we talk about the same thing about recipes. if the revenue of this new fund comes from national contributions, it is obvious that the countries which would finance this fund would use this as a pretext to freeze or even reduce their current contribution to the union budget. and if we think of the own resources that would be directly allocated to this, again it would be equally much taken from our community budget. i mean, we're talking about the same thing on the calendar. we're told, "this is an idea for the future, don't worry about it". it will certainly not apply on 1 january 2013, but i suppose that in the midst of the debt crisis the european council does not meet every business day to take decisions which would apply after 2020, that is to say, which would be applied by the successors of our successors. so we're talking about the same calendar. i therefore make it clear that the european parliament cannot give its consent to the multiannual framework unless it has the guarantee that all the funds which might be created to strengthen european solidarity are incorporated into the community budgetary procedure. this is the fundamental principle of budgetary unity. there may be supplementary budgets, supplementary tables. there may be funding more specifically allocated to certain policies. but what we cannot accept is that the community budget should be fixed, like a kind of historical monument, at the symbolic figure of 1%, and that all the financing required by the new needs should be the subject of intergovernmental funds, escaping any appropriate parliamentary control.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, the cornerstone of the european union, the one that has been hailed by the norwegian nobel peace prize committee, is solidarity. but there is no solidarity without money, without budget. we now know that over the last 14 years national budgets have been growing faster on average than the eu budget, and that the member states would like the eu budget to be shrinking faster than their own budgets. president barroso also called for the social model to be the spearhead of our competitiveness. the imf is telling us that the austerity policy we are pursuing is counterproductive. every day we ask the member states to carry out structural reforms. the first structural reform to be undertaken is that of investment in human capital. i don't like that expression, but it says what it means. our first asset is the quality of our men and women. in this sense, if we fail to build a wall in the next budget to consolidate social spending, with 25% of cohesion policy going to the european social fund, we will be going the wrong way and we will not be arming the european union to face the challenges it faces. in the same spirit, we must defend the programme of aid to the most deprived and the european globalisation adjustment fund.
madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, we must reach an agreement, otherwise we will be the laughing stock of the international community for what remains, alas, a small budget. but that agreement is difficult to obtain. i would like to stress the need to establish a review clause in 2017. by 2017, states will have had time to ratify the treaty on stability and economic governance. the question of public finances will be settled, as will the question of sovereign debts. in 2017, we will have a new parliament, a new commission, a new president of the european council. so if we cannot reach an agreement, let us open a political debate on all our subjects, and i would like to stress this clause of revision which will enable us, in the context of this political debate, to open up prospects which correspond to the european ambitions to which we all aspire.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the more difficult a negotiation is, the more actors there are around the table, the greater the temptation to agree to continue what has already been done. unanimity is necessary. but there is one thing we all agree on, and that is the previous agreement. just keep going. no one will win, but no one will lose. everyone will keep their piece of the pie and everyone will avoid losing face. that is how it was done in the past, despite the efforts of reimer böge and our rapporteurs at the time. the cypriot presidency is publishing a document on the 'resources' part of the budget today. its reference is the fontainebleau agreement, which was adopted by the european council in 1984. that was 28 years ago. at that time, the european union did not yet exist. cyprus and poland, for example, were not included. the economic community was limited to ten states in the west. the iron curtain was tearing the continent apart. china was struggling with mass famines. the idea of a single european currency was only discussed in academic conferences. we have changed the century, we have changed the world, we have changed europe. four successive treaties have considerably increased the union's powers, and the number of members has tripled. everything has changed except the budgetary framework. we are faced with a historic responsibility. our generation of heads of government, ministers, commissioners and meps would be shamed if the europe of 2020 ended up with a budget whose amount, financing and distribution were designed to meet the needs of 30 years ago.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i am by nature an optimist. but my optimism is realistic. it is based on the concrete, on the facts and the achievements and the experience of all that we have achieved in the last 60 years and which, in the end, is just the beginning. the nobel prize awarded to the european union is the recognition of what we have built together over the last 60 years. but it is also an encouragement to go further, and i believe in europe. i believe in the community method. i believe in the added value of the european union which it owes to its common policies. but i also believe in the european investment that our budget allows, which injects some 100 billion euros into our economies every year, and that is too little! europe needs these ambitious policies, policies which will help us to get back to growth, but which, to be implemented, require an ambitious budget. i think that the debate we had demonstrated that. that is why i call on everyone to take responsibility. we need a financial framework that is commensurate with our ambitions and we need, above all, an agreement by the end of the year if we are to be credible to outsiders, mr president. the european council last week took another step towards the completion of our economic union. our crisis is an economic crisis, but our mistake was not to respect our commitments and the rules we had set for ourselves. in recent months we have taken up our responsibilities here in this parliament and we have the necessary instruments. the economic governance package is now law but must be implemented. the same must be true of the two-pack we are discussing today. i think we're going to be done very quickly. ladies and gentlemen, one of the lessons of this crisis is that we cannot exclude certain sectors from our common legislation, such as the banking sector. my group is aware of this and that is why we support the council's proposal to set up a european banking supervisor. in our economy, everything is on the table. the slightest failure, the failure of a single bank, impacts the entire system. if banks consider themselves too big to fail, then no bank is too small to be supervised. we believe that our citizens, our businesses and the banks themselves need to have confidence in our financial system. we in the epp group are committed to doing everything we can to ensure that europe emerges stronger from this crisis and our european union stronger because we believe that europe is the solution. the single market has been our success for some 20 years now, but if this success is to be sustainable, we must complete it and get on with our work. the heads of state or government must be obliged to make rapid progress in filling the gaps in the single market. i am thinking in particular of the establishment of the digital single market. failure to do so could result in a loss of one billion euros in sales each year. ladies and gentlemen, europe is at a crossroads. some want to take over the powers of the european union and reduce europe to a free trade area. but europe is much more than that. since the signing of the treaty of rome by our founding fathers, the european project has been synonymous with peace and prosperity. he's now a nobel prize winner. for 60 years europe has been an example to the world. but our role tomorrow is to strengthen the social market economy, solidarity, to continue to defend human rights and, above all, to carry our values to europe and beyond. mr president-in-office of the council, i have already said this several times in this chamber: in times of crisis decisions must be taken. when we make decisions, we inevitably make some mistakes, but the worst thing in a crisis is to wait too long. and if we wait too long, we end up burdening our fellow citizens with billions of euros. i would like to make this appeal to you, along with the wish for a very good european budget before the end of the year. this is where we will show our willingness to go outside and to the markets. i wish you luck; i wish you the courage to achieve your goals and to give us a nice christmas present for our december session.
mr president, the october council agreed on a timetable for implementing the decisions of last june. the banking union will therefore be completed in 2014. it will supervise 6,000 banks in the euro area. it will guarantee deposits and be responsible for resolving banking crises. this will avoid making the taxpayer pay again, because citizens and especially employees are not the criminals who are blamed for the crisis; the real culprit is greedy finance. it has taken the place of the police in the police station to accuse the citizen today of always wanting too much social. but the social pillar is precisely what is missing from your interim road map, mr van rompuy, the social pillar, but also the democratic pillar. this is why a large number of citizens are now turning to euroscepticism. as the members of the econ committee of this parliament have said in the thyssen report, there can be no complete economic and monetary union without democracy and a social pact. the european parliament must have a say in every stage of the european semester. parliament must be able to discuss the decisions of the troika. parliament must be involved in the esm governance structure. finally, budgetary discipline in each member state must be combined with a strong european budgetary capacity to cope with the asymmetric shock, as you yourself have said, mr van rompuy. but this countercyclical fund must be fed by new and sustainable resources, it must be managed in accordance with the community method to avoid the union's breakup. ladies and gentlemen, many of us agree that there can be no successful federal transition without solidarity, social progress and democratic progress. this is the message that our parliament and its president must take with them in the debate that is about to begin.
mr president, i would like to say to mr barroso and mr van rompuy that, when i hear them, i have the feeling that there is a problem of timing. i mean, contrary to what some people may think, i don't think the european crisis is behind us. so we do not want proposals for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but actions for today, and i would like to give some examples here. firstly, the banking union. we are all in favour of this. the question is whether it is effective and whether it can be operational tomorrow, now and not in a year's time, to allow the recapitalisation of banks; and if we don't, of course, the public debt will go up, which is not very smart. secondly, we need, alongside the banking union, a solidarity mechanism, the creation of a european bond market. this too must be done now, before the countries in difficulty are completely exhausted and, moreover, no longer ask for europe. thirdly, on the budgetary and economic and investment policy, we must now pursue the necessary public policies, otherwise we will be in recession tomorrow. it's better to do it before we're in recession than when we are, because then it will be too late. fourthly, mr van rompuy, we must act now, not in 2018, on parity in the institutions of the european union and in particular in the ecb. otherwise, what credibility will we have when we defend the issue of women's rights outside the european union and when we lecture the governments of a number of countries that do not respect the issue of women's rights at home? fifthly, and finally, on political union, democracy and the democratic legitimacy that goes with it. it is now that we must put them on the table and it is now that we must move forward, otherwise we will lose the confidence of the europeans for good.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, i am speaking on a point of order which is addressed to the members of the conference of presidents under your authority, mr president. i regret that we did not have a political debate with the general affairs council in preparation for this european council. i would also suggest, if you agree, mr president of the european council, that you come with us to prepare the european councils so that you can hear the political debates in this house. i am disappointed with this european council: very little has been said about growth; virtually nothing about competitiveness; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. that we have agreed on a timetable for the banking union. as regards the proposed contractual relations between the member states and the european union, i find it very difficult to believe, as do some of the speakers. let us look at the national reform programmes: france, under the fillon government, made proposals which were accepted at the european council in june, with the new president of the republic. what is the situation with the recommendations by member state? france had proposed reducing public spending, reforming pensions and the labour market. i think we need to monitor these recommendations on a country-by-country basis. on the other hand, we can establish conventional relations on the convergence of the social; article 155 of the treaty allows this. we must achieve convergence of minimum wages. the former communist countries have been members of the european union for eight years. let us include in the cost price chain the convergence of minimum wages. you said, mr president, that we must restore confidence. we must make politics to restore hope to the people.
mr president, when you read the report, the words are there: growth, employment, response to the crisis. but beyond the words, nothing changes. the budgetary logic is still the same as that which led europe to the impasse and the crisis. it is always the same ultra-liberal options that are supported against and against everything: the breaking of social conventions, the confinement in a policy of absolute support for competition that is gangrenous in our countries. with such budgetary guidelines, there is no chance of europe getting out of the chaos it has created. it's the opposite! there is a great risk that europe will be dragged deeper into the crisis for the sole benefit of finance. it is high time for a complete change of direction. we must give priority to public services which are bulwarks against the crisis. we must give concrete help to create jobs and safeguard industry. we must revitalize social protection by harmonizing from above and immediately stopping the leveling down. stop pitting citizens and employees against each other. without these essential changes, europe cannot emerge from the crisis. it is for this europe, on the contrary, that i am working with the citizens.
in writing. the vienna prosecutor's office has requested the waiver of the immunity of mep martin ehrenhauser (not registered). the lifting of immunity was adopted by a large majority in plenary. the aim is to enable the austrian authorities to carry out the necessary investigations into alleged infringements, in particular illegal access to a computer system. i supported the report by my colleague mr rapkay.
in writing. i supported the lifting of martin ehrenhauser's immunity. it is legitimate and right that the austrian authorities should be able to investigate him on the grounds of alleged hacking of computer systems.
in writing. parliamentary immunity should only serve to protect elected representatives from political pressure. martin ehrenhauser is charged with a common law offense. he said he was in favour of lifting his immunity so that justice could be served. i vote for it.
in writing. as every year, and especially in this time of crisis, the european union is making fun of citizens and taxpayers. the commission and parliament are united against the states which are more concerned with limiting waste. the taxpayer is being held hostage. the demand for an increase in the european budget to 151 billion euros to meet absurd imperatives, projects and illusory strategies is a sham; the european union is the solution to the problems it has created. the citizen is also disregarded when the eu distributes more than one and a half billion euros in pre-accession funds, much of it to turkey, whose economy is flourishing.
in writing. the european parliament and i supported this report which seeks to clarify what the budget of the european union should be in 2013. what may seem to be a mere administrative formality is in fact essential in order to avoid keeping certain programmes in arrears. this is because emblematic policies such as erasmus or projects dependent on cohesion policy are running out of funding. this is mainly due to the mismanagement of national governments, which are trying to reduce their contributions without taking responsibility for the impact of these cuts on citizens. the european parliament refuses to do so and this vote shows that.
in writing. as in previous years, negotiations with the council are difficult or even impossible. last year parliament finally gave in. as a result, some programmes currently do not have enough money to finish the year. the esf and erasmus must rely on an amending budget to be able to honour their commitments. the council's inconsistency today is that it is reluctant to adopt a budget which allows for a balance between commitment and payment appropriations, and that it complains about the increase which the commission and parliament want, when it is they who receive most of the budget from the structural funds in their territories. in any event, the negotiations on the 2013 budget are not yet completed and parliament's vote in plenary is clear: restoration of payment appropriations at the level of the commission proposal and increase of appropriations for research and youth employment. the council must now take this into account in moving towards conciliation.
in writing. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, the european parliament has increased its budgetary powers. the parliament and the council of the european union thus share budgetary competence. for the 2013 budget of the european union, we reaffirmed our support for growth and jobs. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the recovery of the eur 1.9 billion cut by the council. these cuts threaten areas that are essential for growth, such as research, employment measures and entrepreneurship. the reinstatement of payment appropriations for 2013 will ensure the financing of european programmes such as erasmus and the european social fund. we also reiterated our support for the middle east peace process. the amended text will be discussed in a conciliation committee composed of members of the council and parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that parliament's position is the most correct. it is unacceptable to reduce the appropriations for programmes that are central to recovery and growth. among these, i am thinking in particular of the europe of large projects and the europe of mobility, with iter and erasmus at the forefront. the draft resolution approved by parliament today protects these fundamental rights and therefore has my full support.
in writing. the european union must have a budget to enable it to take concrete action to get out of the crisis. this is why public policies that are useful for growth or business creation must be safeguarded. education programmes such as erasmus and erasmus mundus, research, development and business support programmes can help the european economy overcome the crisis and create new jobs. it is imperative that they be maintained. similarly, the funds for the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union (pead), which concerns 18 million people with malnutrition problems in the union, must be safeguarded.
in writing. in these reports on the budgetary principles for 2013 and the multiannual financial framework until 2020, the parliament, the traditional ally of the omnipresent commission, is trying to gradually sideline the states by introducing own resources for the union. so far, these efforts have been thwarted, but for how much longer? such a perspective would allow the eu to evolve without any democratic control by the member states. marginal cuts are being put forward while fraud remains and, among other things, the 40 or so european agencies with questionable profitability will continue to be largely served, turkey subsidized and propaganda largely financed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2013 budget as it maintains the european programme for aid to the most deprived. however, i stress the need to make the programme sustainable in the next financial programming period 2014-2020; the challenge is indeed long-term, as associations need visibility to fulfil their missions. a year ago, many associations were sounding the alarm as the financing of the pead was called into question by the court of justice of the european union, threatening the food supply of more than 18 million beneficiaries. this was not acceptable and does not reflect the idea of a protective europe that i am advocating. thanks to the mobilization of many governments, including that of françois fillon, an agreement was reached in the council of the european union to maintain the funds of the pead for two more years, in 2012 and 2013. the beneficiaries of the edp can rest assured that the budgetary envelope of eur 500 million will indeed be maintained in 2013, and i welcome this. we must continue to work towards a sustainable solution that satisfies all member states, beneficiaries and donors.
in writing. this text opposes the arbitrary cuts that the member states want for the 2013 budget. in its proposal, which parliament supports, the commission has asked for an increase in payments to cover budgetary commitments and unpaid payments from previous years. i abstained on this report, however, because it recalls its support for the iter nuclear fusion programme, a chimera which is creating a financial hole in the european budget. the report also calls for the cutting of several lines, some of which relate to development cooperation. i also voted for the rejected amendments to use nuclear funds to finance programmes to dismantle nuclear power stations. i also abstained on the amendments calling for a reduction in subsidies for tobacco production. these cuts would have a strong impact on small farmers. unless we call for a ban on the production and marketing of tobacco, this reduction would have a counterproductive effect. finally, i also abstained on the amendments in favour of a single seat for the european parliament. there must be a real debate on this subject, going beyond a few amendments as is the case here.
in writing. growth and jobs are the two main things we want to support. that is the message that i believe is essential to defend in this vote on the 2013 budget. with my socialist colleagues, we reject the deep cuts proposed by the member states (- eur 5.2 billion compared with the commission's proposal) which would lead to a reduction in expenditure, particularly in the areas of cohesion, research and citizenship. i also support the freezing of 75% of the funds foreseen for certain budget lines of the internal security fund, as long as the question of the role of the european parliament as co-legislator on the reform of the schengen evaluation mechanism is not clarified. finally, i support several increases in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular for the european refugee fund, the european integration fund and the daphne programme to combat violence against women.
in writing. the european parliament met in plenary session on tuesday 23 october, a few days after the european summit of heads of state and government in brussels. if parliament's traditional position is to call for an ambitious budget in opposition to the drastic budget cuts advocated by some member states, i will take from this vote that the priorities of the french delegation of the epp group have been respected, in particular the maintenance of the cap budget and an advocacy for a better use of european funds. i am, however, concerned about the amendments on the seat of parliament and the emergence of an anti-strasbourg movement which is gaining new votes with each vote. it should be remembered that it is not for parliament to decide on its seat and that such a decision would involve an amendment of the treaties, a decision which is for the member states, in particular the founding members who naturally have a special responsibility because of the initiative of european construction which they have been the driving forces behind. on the other hand, it can be considered that the other countries, while choosing to join the european community, had in fact acceded to the provision conferring on strasbourg a status of which they were obviously aware.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues giovanni la via and derek vaughan on the general budget of the european union for 2013. after lengthy negotiations, the report was adopted by 492 votes to 123, with 82 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the eu budget for 2012 is just under €150 billion, representing around 1% of the eu27's gdp. while the eu budget is still in balance, the council wants to reduce the estimated 2013 budget by more than €5 billion. the european parliament, for its part, wanted to increase payments by 6.82% compared to 2012. my colleagues and i want the increase in payment appropriations to contribute directly to growth and employment in the eu.
in writing. the imperative need to return to growth in europe in order to definitively emerge from the successive crises we have been through has led my colleagues in the house and myself to take full responsibility for the 2013 budget. we felt it was important to cancel the cuts in the commission's budget which had been introduced by the council. so my colleagues and i voted in favour of the reinstatement of the 1.9 billion euro cut by the council last june. these funds will be allocated to priority sectors for growth such as the economy, research, entrepreneurship and employment. an amending budget was also presented to ensure the "survival" of the erasmus mundus programme. this programme enables our young people to study throughout europe, which gives them an opportunity to discover different cultures and languages and to become aware of their european citizenship. in agriculture, most of the proposed budget cuts have also been cancelled, and i welcome that. we also approved budget cuts of eur 8.9 million in the administration of parliament. so the goal is now to do more with less.
in writing. i voted in favour of the la via-vaughan report on the 2013 budget, which we hope will be more ambitious than what the european council seems, at this stage, to be prepared to accept. we want to send a strong message to the european leaders who will meet on 22 and 23 november in an extraordinary european council on the future eu budget.
in writing. i opposed a reduction in the european budget as requested by the council. this is the case for the survival of many european programmes, such as the erasmus student mobility programme and the european social fund, which are essential and fundamental programmes. the kind of failure to pay that is threatening to occur for these two programmes should never happen again. growth and jobs must be a top priority.
in writing. the amendments to the draft budget for 2013 submitted by the council and advocated in this report have four undeniable merits: rejecting the council's indecent cuts in the structural funds, which it calls for strategic use elsewhere, restoring the eur 300 000 withdrawn from erasmus by the commission and the council, increasing the funding allocated to palestine and unrwa and maintaining the budget allocated to the food distribution programme for the most deprived people (pead). however, i cannot vote for a budget which restores the excessive funding for frontex which the council had refused, reinstates the increase in funding for iter which the council had refused and is in line with the logic of the europe 2020 strategy. i abstain in respect of the excellent erasmus programme and in support of the continuation of the edp and the increase in aid to the palestinians.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework makes it possible to establish a budget for the european union in a coherent and organised way for a period of seven years. the economic crisis is affecting all budgets, national and european. nevertheless, it is necessary that the european union remains able to finance its many policies and projects that contribute to recovery and growth. this is why the european parliament voted in favour of this text, calling for the strengthening of this european budget and even for the creation of financial resources of the european union.
in writing. the budget in europe and at member state level remains the nerve of the war. it is the test of the ambition of public policies. we have often, if not always, had to deal with a very poor deal in the last budgetary procedures. in the grip of public debts, many member states are holding the brakes as soon as the subject of a real budget for europe is raised. but we must be aware that any recovery plan worthy of the name to get us out of the present stalemate will require concerted action at european level. the end of the crisis tunnel will not appear by magic. if europe condemns itself to a 1% budget throughout the 2014-2020 period, it is feared that we will again talk in 2020 of a hypothetical exit from the crisis.
in writing. the europe of growth is a long-term vision: it is the interest of this financial framework that sets our orientations for the years to come, up to 2020. our union must become even stronger and more assertive, and i fully support the place given to the major projects such as galileo, iter and gmes. but the europe of 2020 is also the europe of solidarity: thanks to the guidelines set out in this text, aid to the most deprived will continue, providing vital support to several million europeans. because growth and solidarity must go hand in hand, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. at a time when the european economy is particularly battered, it is important that the union has an ambitious budgetary programme for the next seven years. for this reason, the draft multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should be able to support the return to growth in europe. future research and investment budgets must be substantial to support competitiveness, create activity, and enable job creation. at the same time, it is right that part of this european budget should be devoted to emergency aid and solidarity towards citizens in difficulty, in particular through the continuation of the european programme of aid to the most deprived (eapd) and the european globalisation adjustment fund. finally, the eu budget should now be able to be fed from own resources without increasing the national tax burden.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes a better use of the european budget. in these difficult economic times, it is important that the european institutions set an example in the use of public funds. nevertheless, it is essential that the union maintains its commitments to finance the major programmes which make up the real added value of this european level. if the council wishes to cut these expenditures, it must justify it publicly and take up this position which would jeopardize the future of certain structural investments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the european parliament's strong and united position on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020, ahead of the november european council summit on the subject. this report recalls our support for a 5% increase in the budget compared to 2013, i.e. an additional €100 billion. the multiannual financial framework is the only way to get europe out of the current crisis. in view of the challenges it faces, it must be able to meet and finance the commitments made by all the european institutions, in particular in the fields of climate, development aid, research, employment and the fight against poverty. apart from the question of the percentage, the other key issue is that of the eu's own resources. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. we are sending a clear message to member states, who are obsessed with austerity cures, neglecting the need to invest in growth and jobs, by providing budgetary means that are commensurate with our ambitions. it is very regrettable that, at a time when europe is faced with increasing responsibilities, the states refuse to take responsibility for the crisis. what the european commission is proposing is still far short of what is needed to meet the challenges of the crisis. this is a minimum threshold below which we cannot go without risking affecting whole sections of european cohesion policy. the european budget, as i see it, must therefore remain an instrument of solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. far from short-term visions, we must see the european budget as a lever for growth, and not as the member states do as a simple means of collecting a check to finance their national policies alone. finally, it is clear that there can be no agreement on this budget without an agreement on own resources.
in writing. the report on the multiannual financial framework contains the words: growth, jobs, crisis response. unfortunately, the proposed provisions say otherwise. the budgetary logic is still the one that has led europe to the impasse and the crisis. beyond words, it is always the same ultra-liberal options that are supported against and against everything. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. with such orientations, there is no chance for europe to emerge from the chaos it has created. on the contrary, there is a greater risk that europe will sink deeper into crisis, to the sole benefit of finance. it is time to change the focus completely: to give priority to public services that are bulwarks against the crisis. to provide concrete assistance for the development of jobs and industry against finance by calling for a public financial pole whose objective will be to provide concrete assistance to projects and people rather than to profit. revitalise social protection, harmonize from above and immediately stop leveling it from below by pitting citizens against employees. without these essential changes, europe cannot emerge from the crisis. it is for this europe that i am working with the citizens...
in writing. key session for the european parliament which adopted its position on accelerating negotiations with the council and the commission on the multiannual financial framework which will determine eu actions and policies for the next seven years (2014-2020). the aim was to set out the priorities and guidelines of the european parliament in preparation for the european council on the budget on 22 and 23 november. although the european parliament has only a limited negotiating margin under the treaty of lisbon (assent), it is a decisive power which gives it a say in the negotiations. the european parliament therefore intends to preserve its prerogatives by voting this way, but also the unity of the budget, because this is not the time for a dispersion of funds which would affect the transparency and predictability of the european budget. the european parliament recognises, however, that introducing a form of flexibility in the european budget would make it possible to adapt it better to the contingencies linked to the crisis and to cyclical and structural developments.
in writing. the report by my colleagues reimer böge and ivalio kalfin was adopted by 517 votes to 105, with 63 abstentions. i supported this report in plenary. it constitutes the mandate of the european parliament in the forthcoming negotiations with the council. the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 started 11 months ago and accelerated sharply with the announcement by president hermann van rompuy of a european council on 22 and 23 november. since the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has had the power to give its assent, that is to say yes or no to council proposals. in this context, the report by my colleagues reimer böge and ivalio kalfin aims to draw red lines. if these were not respected in the future, then the european parliament would be obliged not to give its assent. the red lines that have been drawn are: respect for parliament's prerogatives, unity of the budget, greater flexibility to facilitate the adjustment of budgetary resources, reform of the own resources system.
in writing. my colleagues and i have endorsed the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. this framework, which covers several budgetary years, sets a total budget and a ceiling for expenditure in each area. at the european summit in june 2012, european leaders agreed to increase research budgets and competitiveness to tackle the ongoing crisis. these two sectors will help to revive the european economy, which has been hit hard by the crisis. i am pleased that this resolution has received such a large amount of support, which will allow these sectors to develop further. i voted for this resolution because i am convinced that investment in research and competitiveness will be one of the remedies for the crisis and that funding must therefore be commensurate with the ambitions that the european union has set itself.
in writing. our recommendations for the future multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 have once again demonstrated the proactive role of the european parliament, which is more proactive than the commission, in particular for the competitiveness and innovation and erasmus programmes. in addition, as with the financial transaction tax, which will be the subject of 'enhanced cooperation', we have stressed in the böge and kalfin report, which i voted for, that improvements to the european vat system are imperative.
in writing. this interim report sets out the main guidelines which the european parliament advocates for the forthcoming negotiations with the council on the multiannual financial framework. firstly, all the programmes and policies of the european union must be covered by the multiannual financial framework. flexibility must also be a key principle of the new financial framework so that appropriations can be adapted to changing circumstances and priorities. it is also important that we return to a community budget financed by european own resources, in order to reduce national contributions. first of all, i voted against the proposal to establish a single seat for the european parliament. the treaties and the strong symbol that strasbourg represents as the seat of the european parliament must be respected.
in writing. this interim report on the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework has four merits: it stresses the need to continue the food aid programme for the poorest, it proposes a substantial increase in the share of the budget set aside for the fight against climate change, it calls for an end to the uk rebate and it advocates for real parliamentary scrutiny of the budget. it is also welcome that it accepts the european commission's proposal to be able to exceed the ceilings of the financial framework if necessary. it is a pity that it does not claim for the states what it claims at european level. the same report gives a satisfactory answer to austerity policies! i also reject his support for the iter project and an increase in the budget for mrs ashton's external service. i therefore vote against.
in writing. the report on the multiannual budgetary framework contains the words: growth, jobs... unfortunately, the arrangements he advocates are quite the opposite. the budgetary logic is still the one that has led europe to the impasse and the crisis. beyond words, it is always the ultra-liberal options that are supported against all odds: the breaking of social acquis, the confinement in a policy of absolute support for competition that is gangrenous in europe. with such budgetary guidelines, there is no chance of europe getting out of the chaos it has created. priority must be given to public services which are bulwarks against the crisis. to provide concrete assistance for the development of jobs and industry against finance by calling for a public financial pole, the aim of which will be to provide concrete assistance to projects and people, not to provide aid to the rate of profit. we must revitalize social protection by harmonizing from above and immediately ceasing to level it down by pitting citizens and employees against each other. without these essential changes, europe cannot emerge from the crisis. it is for this europe, on the contrary, that i am working with the citizens.
in writing. this vote is a decisive step in the discussions on the 2014-2020 financial framework and determines the parliament's negotiating mandate. a balance must be struck between two realities: the treaty of lisbon has created new community competences, requiring additional resources, but the crisis does not allow for an increase in national contributions to the community budget. this equation will be difficult to solve if the states persist in their double refusal to raise their contribution and to provide own resources to replace it. the french government of sarkozy had set in motion a process which led to a tax on financial transactions, the proceeds of which will be paid to the community budget, thus reducing the contribution of the countries implementing it, which is a first positive sign. in these negotiations, parliament will defend several red lines: the budget must be a vehicle for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, be flexible to meet structural and cyclical needs and developments, and support projects with high european added value. in this iron fist, parliament must give a conciliatory opinion, with the power to say yes or no. the ball is clearly in the court of the member states.
in writing. enabling the european union to obtain its own financial resources is an objective enshrined in the treaties. this report adopted by the european parliament and which i voted in favour of aims to redefine the way vat is calculated in europe. the long-term objective is that, by harmonising these rates, the european union will be able to collect a share of the vat collected in europe, thus reducing national contributions to achieve fiscal autonomy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the new proposal for the union's own vat resource. this proposal is a considerable improvement on the present system. it is also likely to promote the creation of a genuine, reliable and stable own resource for the union budget. i share the rapporteur's view that the vat-based own resource should be part of a general reform of the own resource system which would make it possible to reduce the overall level of national contributions considerably.
in writing. the report by my colleague jean-luc dehaene on a value added tax own resource was adopted by 516 votes to 98, with 33 abstentions. this was adopted in the context of the consultation procedure. in this report, the majority of members approve the proposal for a regulation. with this in mind, the commission is now being asked to table concrete proposals for further reform of the vat own resource. the objective is to enable it to be paid directly to the union budget as from the period 2014-2020 or in a subsequent revision of the own resources system. the resolution also calls for concrete follow-up to the commission's green paper on the future of vat and for concrete measures to ensure a high degree of harmonisation of the member states' vat systems.
in writing. it is important for the european union to have its own budget. the value added tax is an important lever which should not be overlooked. but it should be paid directly to the budget of the european union. we call on the commission to submit proposals to this effect.
in writing. this report proposes to make vat the alpha and omega of the financing of the european budget. it is therefore not surprising that the european commission is obsessed with raising vat rates and abolishing vat rates, even on the most essential items, such as water and energy. it devotes the most unfair tax and the funding of austerity institutions to the mass of the poorest. i vote against it.
in writing. the eu's own budgetary resource based on vat will now be based on supplies of goods and services, as well as purchases and imports subject to a standard rate of vat throughout the european union. it is therefore based on the actual harmonisation which already exists for goods and services subject to the normal rate. the proposal also transfers to the commission the calculation currently carried out by the member states. this own resource was created in 1970 to be a genuine own resource. it assumed that a continuous process of harmonization of the national vat laws of the member states would lead to the harmonization of national rates. this has not been the case, and at present the vat own resource is another contribution by the member states to the community budget calculated in terms of gni. i abstained on this proposal from the european commission because it risks pushing upwards the harmonization of vat rates, like the proposals to increase vat, which the right wing in france unfairly calls 'social', in exchange for lower social security contributions from employers.
in writing. adopted by the european parliament, the financial regulation contains the rules and principles for establishing and implementing the budget of the european union; it applies to all areas of expenditure or revenue. i personally support this text, which is mainly aimed at rationalizing and making the technical rules governing the budget of the european union more coherent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget. the new financial regulation aims to establish and specify the principles for establishing the budget of the european union. several important changes are planned to improve and modernise the use of the budget by the european administration on the one hand and the member states on the other. the european union will thus be able to buy real estate by borrowing, while the use of the structural funds by the member states will be better controlled.
in writing. for the first time, the european parliament is collegiate with the council on the financial regulation, which contains the rules and principles for establishing and implementing the union's budget. i voted for the grässle and rivellini report, which provides for the possibility for the union to set up trust funds. they are a valuable and visible instrument of international cooperation in disaster relief and development aid. i also support the call in the report for simplification, harmonisation and modernisation of the financial rules.
in writing. the mechanisms for implementing the budget must be effective and not burden or slow down the implementation of european policies. the text is adequate for that purpose, and that is why i voted in favour of it. i particularly support the provisions on transparency and gender equality in the human resources policies of the european institutions. this text will ensure the sound financial management of the union, while giving it all the flexibility it requires.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves the financial rules applicable to the union's annual budget. while national budgets are marked by greater budgetary discipline, the european institutions must set an example in order to improve the efficiency of expenditure within the union.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleagues grässle and rivellini in plenary. this is the first time that the european parliament has collegiated with the council on a financial regulation. after more than 10 months of negotiations, this financial regulation includes for the first time provisions on financial instruments, such as project bonds, with a definition of their scope, control and reporting obligations. the report was adopted by 524 votes to 25, with 32 abstentions.
in writing. the revision of the financial regulation will allow the european commission to establish trust funds for international cooperation, in particular for disaster relief and development aid, without having to systematically use the funds of the united nations and the world bank. this will enable the european union to act autonomously and to gain visibility as one of the world's major donors. prizes may also be organised to stimulate research and innovation. finally, the obligations on member states to be accountable for the use of the structural funds have been better defined and strengthened.
in writing. this report endorses the logic of public-private partnership, a source of waste and plunder, promoted by the commission. i voted against it a year ago. the amendments which are proposed for voting today do not go back to that logic. they approve the possibilities for the european commission to adopt delegated acts in this area. so i am voting against this again.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak this week about the discharge of european agencies accused of running them, as our institutions are considered too permeable to lobbyists and as it seems that the transparency measures taken so far have not succeeded in overcoming these problems, as we want exemplary institutions certified as free from conflicts of interest, as the commission's reputation is once again badly damaged, i am speaking on behalf of the greens/efa group and many other meps from all political groups to ask you to resign john dalli and the long-planned revision of the tobacco products directive. this twisted affair is intriguing and leaves me very puzzled. there's something fishy going on behind this alleged corruption story and we have a right to know the details. of course, commissioners should not be above the law. they have to be held accountable like any other citizen. but the commissioners must not be put below the law either, and i have the impression that john dalli is being deprived of basic rights, in particular the right to be presumed innocent when no concrete and direct proof of his guilt has been produced. i would therefore like to ask the commission to clarify this matter. what legal provision, regulation or treaty did mr. dalli violate by his behavior? what does the commission think of his alleged guilt? is there not a suspicion that this case is a ploy to overturn the directive on tobacco products? i would ask you, commissioner, to give us more details on this exceptional situation and i would ask olaf to send us its report as soon as possible. i have also read mr barroso's letter assuring us that the directive on tobacco products will not be postponed. we would, however, like to know more about its timetable, which has already been delayed by more than a year. the directive is ready and i ask the commission to do everything possible to implement this much awaited directive. are we going to have to wait for tonio borg to take office? we feel that there is such a health urgency that we must get this directive on track, because if we do not do it now, we will have to do it in the next parliament. who will have won then? it's the tobacco lobby!
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes we see amazing things in this parliament. when we talk about human rights in china, we are told, "we must trade with china, because this will allow the emergence of human rights in china". when revolutions happen in arab countries, we are told: "let's organize free trade agreements with arab countries, because that is how we will support the emergence of democracy in arab countries". and suddenly trade would be a very technical, very complicated issue, which would have nothing to do with politics. we know, unfortunately, that this agreement does not guarantee the origin of products entering the european market; first pharmaceuticals, then other industrial products. less than a week ago, the netanyahu government announced the legalization of wild settlements, announced the expansion of settlements in the west bank, all in the run-up to the elections on january 22. at a time when europe is about to receive the nobel peace prize for its past and above all for the history it has to build, particularly in its neighbourhood, it would be totally aberrant for europe to send a signal of political upgrading of relations with israel, rewarding the netanyahu government for all its policies which are constantly criticised by all the institutions of the european union, mrs asthon first and foremost. and what we are sending is a signal to israel: "we must vote for netanyahu to continue his policy of colonization, of disrespect for human rights!" we support referral back to committee for everything mr moreira said about this report. there is no question of europe interfering with the elections in israel and sending a message of support to mr netanyahu! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". as you know, it is extremely difficult to trace the production of all products coming from israel. so, in any case, if today there is no proven evidence of the production of pharmaceutical products in certain territories, this does not prevent the case from occurring in the future, especially since there is a desire to expand the colonies, and other industrial products could be found that would not offer the guarantee that they are not manufactured in the occupied territories. mr president, please feel free to take up the green list whenever we have a vote on a trade agreement, and you will see that we are consistent on respect for human rights, the environment and social rights.
the question is "blue cardboard". i thank you for giving me this opportunity to ask if you have read the reports of the european union ambassadors and delegations in jerusalem which in recent years clearly state that we cannot be able to ensure the traceability of products coming from israel and therefore to separate the products from the settlements and identify them. i wonder if you are aware of these reports, because i am surprised that you said that the products of the colonies are not concerned. in addition, have you also heard of the fact that in many countries, my own in particular, consumers regularly identify products from the colonies in our markets?
mr president, the acaa is not just a technical agreement. it is the strengthening of eu-israel relations and free access to the european single market, although the eu decided in june 2009 to suspend the enhancement of its economic relations with israel. to give its consent to this agreement is to admit and encourage the illegal settlement of the palestinian territories; it is to acknowledge and encourage the illegal and inhumane blockade of gaza. in the reports of our ambassadors in jerusalem, it is recommended that we adopt binding measures to end the settlement. the european union has declared that israeli settlement is an obstacle to peace, so the adoption of the acaa should, for the sake of consistency, lead us to refuse the nobel peace prize.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we had this situation a year ago, and we had wisely refused to vote at the time. a positive vote would, in the present situation, in fact strengthen the israeli government, which only a week ago decided to continue the settlements. so don't tell me this is a technical vote. the proof is that you're already over-excited even though i haven't spoken yet. so imagine when i've spoken! (applause) i would like to thank i mean by that that today - in the explanation of the socialists, it is true that there is the legal problem and the political problem - it would be a mistake to say "yes" and to say "no". that is why postponement is giving parliament the power to continue to decide.
in writing. the aim of this report, which i voted in favour of, is to allow the creation of four budget lines to reallocate appropriations from the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund 2007-2013. the text also calls for a revision and budgetisation of the own resources forecasts, which will result in a change in the distribution of own resources contributions to the eu budget between the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which will make it possible, in particular, to reallocate appropriations to risk-sharing instruments. it strengthens the transparency of this mechanism, which i fully support.
in writing. the report by my colleague francesca balzani was adopted by a large majority, and i welcome that. this report relates to draft amending budget no 4 for the financial year 2012, section iii commission. i supported this report in plenary on 23 october 2012.
in writing. the amending budget is necessary to reallocate appropriations, in particular to the erdf and the cohesion fund. it also corrects inaccurate forecasts of own resources and national contributions.
in writing. the european parliament, which decided on 10 may to postpone the discharge for the european food safety authority (efsa), has just drawn up a second report on the subject. the european parliament and i have decided to grant discharge to this agency this time, given the considerable efforts it has made. it has in fact taken steps to reduce to a large extent the problems of conflicts of interest which hitherto might have affected its decision-making.
in writing. after the refusal to grant discharge to efsa last spring, i voted today for the macovei report which, having read the court of auditors' report, and in view of the measures taken (or being taken) to prevent cases of conflict of interest and to strengthen the independence of the agency, decided to grant discharge. nevertheless, some problems persist, as was seen recently with the case of professor seralini's study (a study questioning the safety of gmos) being examined by the efsa experts, the same ones who have always authorised gmos... the battle for independent agencies, providing scientific expertise without being influenced by industrial and/or private interests, is still ongoing. i therefore have no illusions about granting discharge today.
by written. - i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. it should be recalled that the european parliament had postponed its decision on the discharge in may 2012, mainly due to a conflict of interest problem of the efsa staff.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the 2010 discharge to the european food safety authority. since the postponement of the discharge in may 2012, the agency has improved its management and taken actions to address its structural problems, including the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. the european parliament decided on 10 may to postpone the discharge for the european medicines authority and has therefore just drawn up a second report on the subject. the european parliament and i have decided to grant discharge to this agency this time, given the important efforts it has made. it has in fact taken steps to reduce to a large extent the problems of conflicts of interest which hitherto might have affected its decision-making.
in writing. after a second request following the vote on discharge in may, parliament decided to grant discharge to the three agencies which had been declared insolvent in the spring. i voted today to give the budgetary discharge to the medicines agency as i did to efsa and the european environment agency. it appears that each of these agencies has made commitments and initiated new procedures to strengthen its independence and to combat conflicts of interest. so it is a step in the right direction, even if the question of the independence of the agencies remains, as we are seeing at the moment with efsa on gmos.
in writing. the european medicines agency has cooperated sincerely with the european parliament, responding to our comments made to it last spring and addressing most of the shortcomings that were then observed. i therefore support the position of this report and i vote in favour of granting discharge. however, the agency must continue its efforts to ensure transparency and manage conflicts of interest. this is a non-negotiable condition: to maintain and strengthen the confidence of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european medicines agency at the plenary session of 23 october 2012. as a reminder, parliament postponed its decision on discharge in may 2012 due to a conflict of interest issue.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the 2010 discharge to the european medicines agency. since the postponement of the discharge in may 2012, the agency has improved its management and taken actions to address its structural problems, including the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. this text, which i voted for, as did the european parliament, is more technical than political. in view of the updating of the oecd system for the certification of forest reproductive material for international trade, the european system also needs to adapt. the main change is a simplification of the import of forest reproductive material into the european union from third countries on the basis of a reciprocity system if eligible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council decision 2008/971/ec to extend its scope to forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material' and to update the list of authorities responsible for the acceptance and control of production. the report sets out rules for authorizing the import of reproductive material from third countries under an equivalence system. i think it is important to ensure that the products that can be imported into the union are certified as much as possible.
in writing. this text will facilitate trade to meet demand for forest reproductive material. i therefore support his position and speak in his favour.
in writing. i supported the report of my colleague paolo de castro in plenary on 23 october 2012. the report was adopted by 537 votes in favour, 13 against and 14 abstentions. i'm glad you did. in order to facilitate trade and to respond rapidly to market demand, this report gives the council the possibility of laying down rules for authorizing the import of reproductive material from third countries under an equivalence system.
in writing. by making 2013 the year of citizens, the aim is to make citizens more aware of their rights, particularly in relation to mobility between member states. this text, which i voted in favour of and which the european parliament as a whole also supported, will make it possible to set up awareness-raising and information campaigns for european citizens. conferences and events will also be organised and exchanges of information will be promoted. finally, particular emphasis will be placed on the multilingual platforms set up by the european union, as language differences remain one of the main obstacles to the mobility of european citizens.
in writing. for many european citizens, europe remains, in the words of jacques delors, an 'unidentified political object'. yet european citizenship has been built and is constantly advancing. family rights, pension rights, vocational training, recognition of qualifications - it is our common responsibility to make the practical and useful provisions of european citizenship known to everyone in everyday life. the 2013 european year of citizens is therefore excellent news in this respect.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european year of citizens (2013). according to a 2009 eurobarometer survey, almost one in five europeans feel that working in another member state presents too many obstacles. the problem is the lack of information on the rights of european citizens, administrative issues, social protection systems and the recognition of diplomas. i believe that when employment is to become the priority of european policies, it is important to facilitate and encourage the cross-border mobility of workers. the report therefore proposes to carry out various communication and dissemination initiatives at eu level to help european citizens better understand their rights to freedom of movement and residence.
in writing. european citizens enjoy rights, but they have yet to exercise them fully. it is time to tackle head-on the obstacles that still hinder their mobility. the european year of citizens will enable us to do everything we can to achieve genuine european citizenship from next year onwards. the first step in making this citizenship a reality is for each of us to be aware of what it covers. the first objective of this action, which i supported, is to inform and debate.
in writing. i fully supported the report by my colleague antigoni papadopoulou in favour of the establishment of the european year of citizens in 2013. in these times of economic and social crisis, it is essential to highlight the rights attached to european citizenship in order to restore the confidence of our citizens in the european project. too few people are really aware of the rights of european citizenship. it is therefore necessary to support all actions which help to highlight the rights of european citizens and to ensure that they are properly applied. the issue of european citizenship cannot be limited to declarative matters; it is a highly political one. it is through the defence and publicity of existing rights and the construction of new guarantees for citizens that this notion of citizenship can take on content, weight and become tangible for everyone. and it is also for these reasons that i support an ambitious budget for this 'year', beyond the million agreed by the member states, but still far below what is needed to achieve our objective of european citizenship on a daily basis.
in writing. the most common complaint about the european union is the gap between these institutions, which are considered technocratic, and citizens, who have difficulty identifying the main actors, understanding their role and the distribution of competences and, above all, the concrete impact of european decisions on their daily lives. many communication campaigns are carried out each year to bring citizens closer to their institutions and to give them a better understanding of the actions undertaken at eu level. for example, in 2009, 11.9 million eu citizens were living in a member state other than their own, and the creation of the internal market has steadily increased this movement. however, many europeans still consider the barriers to intra-community mobility to be too high, including the lack of information on administrative issues, social protection system issues and the recognition of university degrees. that is why 2013 has been designated the 'european year of citizens'. the aim will be to raise awareness of the rights of european citizenship in a cross-border context. let us hope that this initiative will succeed in reconciling citizens with the eu.
in writing. the report by my colleague antigoni papadopoulou was adopted in plenary on 23 october 2012 by 518 votes in favour, 63 against and 19 abstentions. i supported this report in plenary, the main objective of which is to ensure that by 2013 all european citizens are aware of their rights, including the right to free movement. on the occasion of the european year of citizens, parliament called on the commission and the member states to launch wide-ranging information, education and awareness-raising campaigns for the general public.
in writing. the more europeans know their rights as citizens of the european union, the more informed they can be about their private lives, and the richer european democratic life will be at all levels. i welcome the adoption of the report by antigoni papadopoulou on the european year of citizens, which will make it possible throughout 2013 to explain the contributions of the european union to the daily lives of european citizens. freedom of movement is the most widely known and cherished right of european citizenship. however, the majority of the other benefits of european citizenship are unknown to the public due to a lack of information. i am convinced that this european year of citizens will make it possible to correct certain shortcomings in this area and will make it possible, throughout the year, to provide effective information to the european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the 'european year of the citizen 2013'. today, almost 12 million european citizens live in a country other than their own, yet there are still many obstacles to mobility within our union. i therefore voted in favour of the various lines of funding proposed in the report, such as the development of communication tools for information campaigns for the general public. although it is the responsibility of the member states to inform the public, it is imperative that we set up multilateral information campaigns. we must enable the citizens of the union to exercise and defend their rights better, at local, regional, national and european level!
in writing. the latest eurobarometer surveys show that europe is experiencing a crisis of confidence and legitimacy. since autumn 2009, about 30% fewer people say they trust the eu. as we celebrate 20 years of european citizenship next year and less than a year before the european elections, it is a good idea to make 2013 the year of european citizenship, the year of european citizens. i supported this text because i wanted to give 2013 a special symbolic meaning in the current context. it has been shown that citizens suffer from a lack of information about their eu rights. it is essential that the european year of citizenship should succeed in effectively raising awareness among citizens of these rights. it must also stimulate citizens' interest in the activities of the european union, which is essential for the development of european democracy, which is so important for the eu's legitimacy. but the success of 2013 obviously depends on the financial resources mobilised, and in this respect i regret that the budget allocated to it is so meagre.
in writing. the choice to put the citizen back at the heart of european concerns in 2013 is particularly timely. we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the internal market, which we often accuse of favouring the mobility of goods over that of people and competition over solidarity. there are still many difficulties in exercising the rights of european citizenship to the full. the first of these difficulties is to know them. in theory, no one is supposed to be ignorant of the law. in practice, unfortunately, no one knows what it is: the confusion in the transposition of directives, the complexity of the decision-making process and the lack of interest of citizens make it necessary to make european rights better known. moreover, once the benefits of european citizenship are known, they must be exercisable. the territory of the eu is far from being a uniform and homogeneous living space for its citizens. sometimes the removal of internal border controls on persons seems to have created as many problems as it has solved. in these times of crisis, the european project and european citizenship must regain their relevance. the year 2013 should be an opportunity to put the citizen back at the heart of the purpose of european legislation.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague kristina ojuland was adopted by a large majority in plenary on 23 october. i supported this report, which is a recommendation from the european parliament to the council on the adoption of common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. in this report, parliament recalls that the conditions of his detention and his death in prison constitute a well-documented and serious case of non-respect of fundamental rights. these conditions have clearly demonstrated the malfunctioning of the russian criminal justice system. the european parliament, like the united states, is calling on the council to draw up a list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, the cover-up of the facts at the judicial level and the incessant harassment of his mother and widow. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the arrest of sergei magnitsky, the conditions of his detention and his death in prison are clear violations of fundamental rights. the council should take account of corruption and the flawed russian judicial system in its relations with russia and should call more strongly for respect for human rights in russia. russian officials involved in the death of sergei magnitsky should also be deprived of european visas.
in writing. the authorities responsible for air traffic control are strongly influenced by the geographical boundaries of the different countries, each of which has at least one air navigation service provider. this fragmented national approach must be replaced by a common european system in order to improve efficiency and reduce congestion. parliament and i have supported this report which should help to consolidate the single european sky project.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the single european sky legislation. today, air traffic is still too much bound by the geographical borders of the member states. in this sense, the standardisation of air traffic management at community level must be accompanied by a shift towards a more modern and automated industry. several initiatives of the european commission are to be promoted, such as the functional airspace blocks and the sesar programme - the technological component of the single european sky.
in writing. i voted for the foster report which aims to encourage member states to speed up the implementation of the single european sky (ses). i regret the delay in setting up a cue which should provide passengers with a more affordable, safer and more environmentally friendly means of transport. in the current crisis, the economic benefits and potential benefits for growth and employment of a ceu are not negligible. i also share the rapporteur's concern that the union may lose its technological lead if the implementation of the teu is not accelerated.
in writing. europe without borders will only be achieved through strong and unhindered transport networks. our airspace does not yet meet this requirement. for the mobility of our citizens and for the growth of our businesses, it is necessary to create a genuine single european sky, because the single market will necessarily pass through aviation. this report is ambitious and sets clear and concrete objectives, which i support. i therefore voted in favour of it. i hope that europe will soon have an airspace that meets its needs and that meets the needs of its global competitors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which provides a view on the actual implementation of the single european sky. the single sky is a chance for the european aviation industry, but each actor must take responsibility and respect its commitments. the delay in implementing functional airspace blocks in some member states unfortunately reflects the unwillingness of some governments to contribute to the realisation of this beautiful european project. is it still necessary to remind people that behind this rationalization of flight plans lie major repercussions for our fellow citizens? achieving a safe, efficient and sustainable single european sky that is favourable to our travellers and businesses alike is an ambitious but achievable goal for europe that should not pose any problems for member states. 328 000 jobs in a crisis, it is worth sticking to the timetable.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague jacqueline foster was adopted by a large majority in plenary on 23 october 2012. i voted in favour of this report in the plenary. this report calls for the challenge of defragmenting airspace to be met. the air traffic control industry is deeply affected by the geographical boundaries of different countries, each of which has at least one air navigation service provider. the report calls for the development of functional airspace blocks to reduce congestion. finally, this report supports the public-private partnership approach.
in writing. the single european sky project aims to establish common air traffic management rules in europe. we voted on tuesday on the report by jacqueline foster on the single european sky, which aims to increase the capacity, safety and efficiency of air traffic. this will be characterized by the eventual introduction of shorter, faster and cheaper routes. in addition to saving time for travellers, optimising air routes should result in significant fuel savings and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation. the inefficiency resulting from the fragmentation of european airspace is costing the eu an extra €5 billion a year. the average flight length has increased by 42 kilometres, which translates into higher fuel consumption, higher emissions, higher fees and delays. the aim is to increase airspace capacity by three times and reduce traffic costs by two.
in writing. i support the rapid implementation of the single european sky. the delays in implementing it are deplorable. such a standardisation of traffic management would allow aircraft to use the shortest routes to provide passengers with a cheaper, safer and more environmentally friendly means of transport. the sesar programme must not be abandoned. the implementation of new technologies for information sharing and satellite navigation systems should be encouraged. let us not forget that this would create no less than 328 000 jobs. we must continue to invest in research and, above all, rapidly deploy the new technologies available so as not to lose our technological edge.
in writing. while welcoming the progress made by the union towards the implementation of the single european sky, i join the other members who voted in favour of this resolution in calling for the effective and immediate implementation of this legislation. the french are facing a real problem of air traffic congestion. at roissy-charles-de-gaulle airport, a plane takes off from roissy every two minutes during peak hours. this airport will soon reach its maximum capacity as air traffic increases steadily. according to the commission, other benefits would result from the establishment of the sesar system, which would generate the direct and indirect creation of no less than 328 000 jobs and would avoid the release of approximately 50 million tonnes of co2 into the atmosphere. in these times of chronic unemployment and reflection on the impact of our lifestyles on our environment, i can only support the establishment of the single european sky.
in writing. i fully supported this report, which calls for the faster implementation of the single european sky. the project will free aircraft from the constraints of national borders and allow them to make the shortest journey between two european airports. the project is based on a merger of the european air traffic blocks (fabs) and on the harmonization of flight operating technologies (sesar). unfortunately, this project, in which european added value should take on its full meaning and scope, is not worth it. the technological aspect has lagged considerably behind. there is an urgent need to accelerate and reverse this trend, as the usefulness and need for the single european sky will become increasingly felt, with air traffic expected to triple in the coming years. the benefits of the single european sky are well known: reduced ticket prices and travel times, a tenfold increase in safety levels, 50 million tonnes of co2 savings and 328 000 jobs created. so what are the member states and stakeholders waiting for to complete this european project?
in writing. it is essential to defend passenger rights in all modes of transport. for this reason, the european parliament and i voted in favour of this report, which is both a review of current legislation and a call for future legislation. among the main requests of the european parliament, we have asked the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to protect passengers by means of compulsory insurance for airlines or a guarantee fund. efforts were also requested to ensure that people with reduced mobility and disabled people were accommodated.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on passenger rights in all modes of transport. the report aims to improve passenger rights by unifying european regulations. it is important to consolidate the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, but also to strengthen consumer protection in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of an airline.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the bach report on passenger rights in all modes of transport. i think it is essential to have legislation that brings together all the rights of passengers in order to better protect them. i welcome the measures proposed to make progress in the areas of access for disabled people and people with reduced mobility, transparency on the quality of services and prices, passenger information and intermodality. i also believe that simplification of procedures is essential to help passengers to assert their rights against the major transport companies.
in writing. enabling citizens to move throughout the union is the objective we are pursuing, but we can see that it is not yet a reality. one of the problems we all face is that we often ignore our rights as passengers: what to do if my luggage is damaged or lost? can i be compensated in the event of cancellation or long delay? how do i file a complaint? the report is realistic and ambitious because it is intended to deal with a problem which affects us all. i can only endorse it by a positive vote. i support his ambition to see a more uniform and stronger framework for the protection of european passengers. in the meantime, passengers should be kept informed by simplifying and improving communication.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for better protection of passengers, whatever the mode of transport used. often, when a passenger is faced with a problem during his journey, he is lost in all the legislation that exists. that is why we are asking the commission today to bring together, in the medium term, the provisions for the protection of passengers in a single text. we also call on the commission to put forward a proposal which addresses another recurring problem in the field of transport: the protection of passengers in the event of the bankruptcy of a carrier from which they have already purchased a ticket. we cannot accept that passengers are left on the tarmac in the event of bankruptcy and are left with no means of obtaining compensation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report on passenger rights in all modes of transport. while the union already has a comprehensive integrated set of rules, it is now essential to ensure better convergence between the different legislations and to remove the obstacles which still prevent citizens from exercising their rights. that is why i am particularly pleased with our recommendations to provide more and better information to passengers: only properly informed citizens can effectively assert their rights! this includes the setting up of information points and helpdesks, as well as ensuring better trained staff. the future proposal will also, in my view, have to respond to the new challenges posed to passengers by information and reservation systems. in addition to greater transparency of tariffs, it will have to provide clear provisions on the handling of complaints and liability. one of the other pillars of passenger rights, as i see it, is based on the right to mobility: there is an urgent need to establish minimum standards for the assistance of disabled persons in order to ensure a coherent and effective approach throughout the union.
in writing. on 23 october, the european parliament adopted the report on air passengers' rights in all modes of transport, including, in addition to the already regulated air and rail transport, waterborne transport and bus/coach transport. the report aims to coordinate the regulations in force and to establish common guidelines. mobility is one of the main achievements of the creation of the single market: facilitating the mobility of european citizens therefore had to be translated naturally into the removal of technical and administrative barriers in their daily commutes. i therefore welcome the fact that the eu is drawing up a list of fundamental passenger rights which ensures that regulations are responsive to passenger concerns. among these fundamental rights i would like to highlight the right to clear, accurate and easily accessible information before purchase and at the various stages of the journey, facilitated by the establishment of information points, but also the right to cancel the journey with full refund of the ticket price, the right to compensation in certain circumstances, the carrier's liability for luggage and easy and non-discriminatory access for disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. the report by georges bach was adopted by a large majority in plenary on 23 october 2012. i supported this report, which deals with the commission's communication on the application of passenger rights in all modes of transport. the report calls for improvements in many areas and, above all, for the establishment, in the medium term, of a single regulation on passenger rights, which would apply to all modes of transport. a significant part of the report is devoted to disabled people and people with reduced mobility.
in writing. my colleagues and i have adopted the report by georges bach on passenger rights in all modes of transport. the report strengthens passenger rights by providing legal clarifications, regardless of the mode of transport. the purpose of this is to facilitate the procedures and information of passengers in case of delays, lost or damaged luggage, or when the company has gone bankrupt. parliament has therefore allowed for upward harmonisation of passenger rights in all modes of transport. the report will eventually be implemented by the introduction of a complaint form and a deadline common to all modes of transport, increased price transparency on the internet and protection for passengers in the event of the carrier's bankruptcy.
in writing. it is important to defend the rights of passengers in all types of transport. passengers should have rapid access to information and assistance in the event of disruption to transport services. the european commission must react more often and more systematically to companies that do not respect the rights of their users. particular attention should be paid to the principle of price transparency on the internet: too often additional costs are added at the end of the booking process, for example for payment by credit card. we also ask the european commission in this report to define more clearly the concept of 'exceptional circumstances' which allows too many airlines to avoid reimbursing customers who have suffered damage as a result of a delayed or cancelled flight.
in writing. consumer rights in transport modes are very well developed in the european union. however, it must be admitted that some shortcomings in the legislation remain. i therefore support this resolution which seeks to provide solutions to the remaining gaps. for example, i notice that too often, in the event of delays or cancellations, consumers are not reimbursed for their journeys because the company pleads exceptional circumstances and is therefore exempt from its obligation to compensate and reimburse. i therefore welcome the intention expressed in this resolution to invite the commission to clarify these circumstances further. i am also very much concerned with the information that consumers should receive and the assistance that can be provided to them in the event of problems. therefore, airline staff must be able to make immediate decisions and be able to handle claims for compensation and reimbursement. finally, i support the call on the commission to present legislative measures to improve complaint procedures, including the introduction of a uniform form.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for improving passenger rights for all modes of transport. among the ways of achieving this objective i particularly support the idea of a european charter accessible to the traveller and listing the ten fundamental rights of passengers. in an emergency and unforeseen situation, it is useful for the traveller to have a simple document that reminds him of his most basic rights. passengers are too often discouraged by the complexity of the complaint procedure to renounce their right to compensation. to remedy this, i put forward the idea, which was accepted, of a single complaint form and a minimum time limit for handling complaints common to all modes of transport. the report also calls for more price transparency on the internet, as the advertised price is too often far from the final price. i think it should, however, reflect the price most accurately and not conceal administrative and credit card charges in order to lure the customer. the ball is now in the commission's court, which must come back to us with an ambitious legislative proposal.
in writing. parliament rejected the discharge to the council. i voted in favour of this discharge, as no significant irregularities were found. although i regret the lack of information and cooperation from the council, this is not a sufficient reason for refusing discharge. in times of crisis, this kind of interinstitutional conflict is particularly regrettable.
in writing. in may, the european parliament refused to grant discharge to the council. since then, nothing has changed; so we renew our position today. cooperation between the institutions is not a matter of course, it is built on mutual respect and trust. the european parliament is the union's budgetary authority, on an equal footing with the council. the council's expenditure must be monitored in the same way as that of the other institutions. the institution must therefore be transparent and act in good cooperation (by answering the questionnaire we send each year, by attending meetings and public hearings, etc.) with parliament. without these elements, without an open and constructive dialogue, we cannot exercise our right of discharge in the best possible way.
in writing. i supported the discharge for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, in the plenary session of 23 october 2012. this discharge was postponed until may because of a lack of cooperation between the council and the european parliament. this is the second discharge report for the financial year 2010. the majority of my colleagues and i supported this second report, while we deeply regretted that we had not received a reply to our questions from the council. these included the costs of creating the post of high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the budgetary consequences of the transfer of council staff to the foreign affairs action service.
in writing. i supported the granting of discharge to the council for 2010. the absence of a reply from the council to a few additional questions from the committee on budgetary control is not sufficient to justify a refusal of discharge, especially since we had already postponed discharge at the may part-session.
in writing. the european parliament decided on 10 may to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency and has therefore just produced a second report on the subject. the european parliament and i have decided to grant discharge to this agency this time, in view of the important efforts it has made. it has in fact taken steps to reduce to a large extent the problems of conflicts of interest which hitherto might have affected its decision-making.
in writing. after a second request following the vote on discharge in may, parliament decided to grant discharge to the three agencies which had been declared insolvent in the spring. i voted today to give the discharge to the european environment agency as i did to efsa and the ema. it appears that each of these agencies has made commitments and initiated new procedures to strengthen its independence and to combat conflicts of interest. so it is a step in the right direction, even if the question of the independence of the agencies remains, as we are seeing at the moment with efsa on gmos.
in writing. i supported the discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2010. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the discharge for the financial year 2000 in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. the vote was on the second discharge report. in may 2012, parliament postponed the discharge, mainly due to a conflict of interest issue within the european environment agency.
in writing. i supported the discharge to the european environment agency. the rapporteur has not provided sufficient and substantiated evidence to support the allegations of conflicts of interest within the agency. you can't deny a discharge on the basis of mere suspicion. moreover, since the landfill was postponed, the environment agency has, on the contrary, provided a large number of elements which underline the responsible management of the agency.
in writing. i voted against the appointment of mr orban to the court of auditors. the main reasons are the lack of relevant professional experience of the candidate in the field of audit, as well as the existence of a potential conflict of interest. the candidate is currently romania's minister for european affairs and is responsible for the management of eu funds in romania.
in writing. i, like the majority of my colleagues, have rejected the candidature of leonard orban for the court of auditors. this vote took place in plenary on 23 october 2012. we followed the advice of my colleague inès ayala sender, who recommended that we oppose the appointment of leonard orban. the main reasons for this refusal were a lack of relevant professional experience of the applicant in the field of audit and the existence of a potential conflict of interest. the candidate is the current minister of european affairs of romania and is responsible for the management of eu funds in romania.
in writing. i rejected the nomination of leonard orban to the court of auditors. the court of auditors plays an essential supervisory role. it is therefore necessary that its members be impartial and competent. the risks of conflict of interest arising from mr orban's candidacy are too great given his current responsibility for the management of eu funds in romania. moreover, his professional experience in the field of audit is too limited.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by ireland, is intended to help 432 people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: request efg/2012/001 ie/talk talk from ireland. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative which will help ireland, which is facing massive redundancies (586 redundancies) in the new information technology sector, as its application fulfils the conditions for the fund.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a tool that is not well known to citizens and should be highlighted. it will help 432 former employees in the irish telecommunications sector to cope with their redundancy and to undertake their conversion and re-entry into working life. i welcome the fact that europe is thus providing practical, daily support to its citizens who are victims of the crisis. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help ireland with redundancies in the new information technology sector. there are now some 592 redundancies in this sector. the aid was approved by a large majority of 576 votes in favour, 64 against and 12 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that talk talk workers in ireland who are made redundant should receive appropriate support.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the request, submitted by sweden, is aimed at helping 543 people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: request egf/2011/015/se/astra zeneca. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative to help sweden, which is facing massive layoffs (987) in the pharmaceutical sector, as its application meets the conditions for granting the funds.
in writing. with the help of the european globalisation adjustment fund, 700 swedish redundant workers will be able to cope with the difficulties of losing their jobs and receive support and training to help them move on to their next job. i support the granting of this aid.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague dominique riquet on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help sweden in the face of redundancies in the pharmaceutical sector. there are now about 987 redundancies in this sector. the aid was approved by a large majority of 574 votes in favour, 71 against and 15 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund supports workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that the workers laid off by astra zeneca in sweden should receive appropriate support.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by spain, is intended to help 878 people made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: request egf/2011/019 es/galicia metal. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative which will help spain, and in particular the region of galicia, which is facing a large number of redundancies (450 redundancies) in the shipbuilding sector, since its application fulfils the conditions for the granting of funds.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund will help 450 workers who have been made redundant to reintegrate. the means available will provide the necessary support for each of them. i approve the granting of this aid.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague alexander alvaro on the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help spain, which is facing redundancies in the shipbuilding sector. the aid was approved by a large majority of 570 votes in favour, 71 against and 13 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund supports workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that the workers laid off by galicia metal in spain should receive appropriate aid.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by the netherlands, is intended to help 435 people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2011/009 nl/gelderland. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative which will help the netherlands, which is facing massive redundancies (54 firms) in the construction sector, as the application meets the conditions for granting the funds.
in writing. the dutch construction sector has been one of the many victims of the crisis, and i welcome the fact that a tool such as the european globalisation adjustment fund exists to facilitate the transition of displaced workers to their new jobs. i welcome the mobilisation of the emff to support the more than 400 construction workers who have lost their jobs.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the netherlands facing redundancies in the building construction sector. there are now about 516 redundancies in this sector. the aid was approved by a large majority, 572 voting for, 63 against and 13 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund supports workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that workers made redundant in gelderland in the netherlands should receive appropriate support.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the application, submitted by the netherlands, is intended to help 616 redundant workers. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: request egf/2011/021 nl/zalco. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative which will help the netherlands facing the bankruptcy of zalco aluminium and support the 616 workers made redundant, as the application fulfils the conditions for the granting of the fund.
in writing. the more than 600 people who lost their jobs in the netherlands as a result of the difficulties faced by the aluminium sector will benefit from mobilisation of the emff to support them in the transition to their future employment. i support this action.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the netherlands facing redundancies in the aluminium production sector. there are now about 616 redundancies in this sector.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that the workers made redundant by zalco in the netherlands should receive appropriate aid.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, submitted by france, is intended to help 2089 persons made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund: request egf/2010/015 fr/peugeot. the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, in order to assist them in their efforts to reintegrate into the labour market. i strongly support this initiative which will help the 2089 workers laid off by peugeot citroën between 2009 and 2010, following the sharp drop in demand for new cars in the european union. france is severely affected by restructuring, arcelor mittal, continental must be able to benefit from the egf. it is therefore absurd that the existence of the medium-term egf should be called into question by some member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which grants france european financial aid to support the reintegration into the labour market of 2089 workers made redundant in an automobile sector hard hit by the crisis. this decision illustrates the major role that the european globalisation adjustment fund can play in helping economic sectors in crisis. a strong european union is one which protects its citizens above all against the uncertainties of life.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which is excellent news for peugeot employees, who are currently going through an important social plan. this community programme is in line with the vision of a europe which protects its citizens and responds to social disasters. in total, almost €12 million will be released. the request, submitted by france in 2010, concerned 2 089 workers made redundant in the group's subsidiaries in ille-et-vilaine, franche-comté, alsace, lorraine and île-de-france.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for peugeot employees, as more than €12 million goes directly to the retraining, training and re-employment of the some 2 000 employees made redundant between 2009 and 2010. in total, €37.5 million will be mobilised in 2012 to help european workers who have been made redundant in europe. in this respect, it is regrettable that a minority of states refused to extend the crisis-related egf eligibility criterion until the end of 2013. as unemployment continues to rise and the recession progresses across europe, it is clear that we are still in a crisis situation, and that the unemployed in europe need this useful european tool more than ever in their journey back to work.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has approved by a large majority the plan to help psa peugeot citroën, which, like the whole french automobile industry, has been hit hard by the economic and financial crisis. at the request of the government of nicolas sarkozy, the european commission has proposed to allocate almost €12 million from the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) to help the 2089 workers made redundant between 1 november 2009 and 28 february 2010. this request was made by france following the sharp fall in demand for new cars at the beginning of the crisis in 2008 (10,7% in the third quarter of 2008 and 17% in the fourth quarter), which forced the company to make redundancies in brittany, franche-comté, ile-de-france, alsace and lorraine. the egf is based on a voluntary policy, providing redundant workers with counselling and training services, and financing the allowances provided for redundancy leave and aid for the creation of new businesses.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague dominique riquet on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help france, which is facing redundancies in the automotive sector. the aid was approved by a large majority, with 565 votes in favour, 75 against and 14 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. in france, 2089 people lost their jobs at psa peugeot citroën because of a fall in sales: they will receive aid of €12 million. this aid will also cover franche-comté, alsace and lorraine.
in writing. the crisis is hitting the automotive sector hard. while the second quarter of 2009 saw a decrease of 39.5% in the total number of vehicles produced in the eu compared to the previous year, major european manufacturers, as well as their suppliers, are facing enormous difficulties. the french automobile industry is suffering all the more from the crisis because it is marked by a greater competitiveness deficit than that of other european countries, and this context has led psa peugeot citroën to lay off more than 2000 people in different regions. to help them, france has requested assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was made available for redundancies related to the economic and financial crisis. by voting in favour of this resolution, i am asking for €11.9 million to be released to help the workers at psa peugeot citroën who have lost their jobs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it can only be solved by increasing investment in research and development to steer production towards the car of tomorrow.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) for the benefit of peugeot employees. the commission has already decided to grant a further eur 12 million to the 2089 employees affected by the peugeot redundancies. these funds will finance active reintegration measures in addition to the compulsory measures provided for in french law and will help them to find a new job. however, i regret that this mobilization for peugeot employees is one of the last of the egf based on the criterion of crisis and that its access is now restricted. in fact, as the recession and the explosion of unemployment are looming over european countries, the council has unfortunately decided that this 'crisis' criterion can no longer be invoked to release this fund.
in writing. i welcome this vote to mobilise €12 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 2,089 workers, following the layoffs at peugeot in 2010, after failing to vote in 2011 because of incomprehensible opposition from the socialists. with an annual budget of €500 million, the egf enables the eu to better absorb shocks from major structural changes in the world economy and helps to combat unemployment by financing vocational training and retraining. this shows that the eu has the ambition and the means to put people and the real economy at the heart of its project. it is therefore very regrettable that some member states are opposed to the preservation of this fund for ideological reasons. parliament will have to be firm in the budgetary negotiations that are beginning, to guarantee the egf the means to meet the challenges. finally, the firings of peugeot employees remind us of the urgency of creating a competitive shock by massively reducing the tax burden that is suffocating our industries. we must face this question without taboo if we want europe to remain a productive land.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the purpose of this application, submitted by denmark, is to help people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
in writing. by voting in favour of this aid, we are not only helping the workers who have been made redundant, but we are also helping a whole region in difficulty. by supporting their reintegration, we are supporting the future recovery of this region and of europe as a whole.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund is designed to support workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that vestas' redundant workers in denmark receive appropriate support.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), established in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. the purpose of this application, submitted by germany, is to help people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and my vote.
several large german cities and regions are affected by the redundancies referred to here. the dismantling of this company must not mean the end of the road for its former employees, and i hope that by voting in favour of this aid, i will facilitate their transition to a new working life.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes on the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help germany with redundancies in the printing machinery manufacturing sector. the aid was approved by a large majority, 561 voting for, 71 against and 15 abstentions.
in writing. the globalisation adjustment fund supports workers whose redundancies are a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. the eligibility criteria are fulfilled in this case. it is therefore right that the workers laid off by manroland in germany should receive appropriate support.
in writing. like a majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this text, which is an update of a regulation on the control by the european union of exports of goods of a civilian nature likely to have military use.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the community system for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods. these rules aim to limit the risk of sensitive dual-use items (chemicals, telecommunications equipment or software) being used for military purposes. without impeding legitimate trade, it is important to develop a comprehensive system of general export authorisations of the european union in order to combat effectively the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i think that this report makes it possible to pursue a policy of exporting our dual-use goods without risk.
in writing. some of the goods we use in our daily lives can potentially be used for military purposes. it is therefore necessary to monitor closely their export to other countries, but with great care not to impede trade where they are not dangerous. the text i voted for aims to streamline this control: not to impede legitimate trade while ensuring a high level of security, an objective which i fully support.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague christofer fjellner on the community regime for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods. the report was adopted on 23 october by 378 votes to 263 with 17 abstentions. this framework for the control of exports of dual-use goods and technology (i.e. goods of a civilian nature that may have military use) is more than indispensable. it pursues a dual objective: to limit the risks of proliferation and military use while avoiding the hindrance of legitimate trade.
in writing. a balance has been struck between limiting the risks of proliferation and military use of dual-use goods and enhancing legitimate trade in such goods in this report. it is necessary to streamline the procedures for amending the annexes so that they can be updated regularly and rapidly if necessary. delegated acts shall be appropriate for such amendments. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. following a thorough review of the international convention on standards of training for seafarers, several changes were decided. this text, which was adopted by the european parliament and which i voted in favour of, is the incorporation into european law of the recasting of an international convention. it aims to improve training conditions and raise the level of certain requirements for the training of seafarers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the provisions on the training and assessment of seafarers, in particular on fraud and piracy. it consists mainly of incorporating into european legislation the reworking of the international convention agreed at the manila conference on 25 june 2010.
in writing. i voted in favour of the simpson report, which aims to transpose into community law the developments in international law decided upon within the international maritime organisation. i have been able to observe through my work as vice-chairman of the committee on fisheries how important it is that crews trained in different countries but working on the same vessel have the necessary skills to carry out their duties in the same way. i am convinced that training plays a vital role in maritime safety and i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the sea is home to some of our most beautiful jobs, but also some of our most dangerous. the human factor is the key to this. ensuring that seafarers are properly trained by bringing european provisions into line with our international obligations is the aim of the text i voted for.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague brian simpson in the plenary on 23 october. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 619 votes against, 16 against and 16 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the aim of this report was to bring the minimum level of training of seafarers into line with international rules. the main improvements sought are: reinforced provisions for training, assessment and prevention of fraudulent practices, updated standards for medical fitness and alcohol abuse, new requirements for electrical officers and new provisions for safety training for seafarers.
in writing. the very important question of the minimum level of training for seafarers was put to the vote on tuesday and the report was adopted. after the recent tragedies at sea which have affected the collective conscience, i welcome the alignment of european legislation with the international convention on standards of training for seafarers. the human factor is essential for maritime safety and we had to update our legislation. i voted in favour of this text so that much needed improvements in the minimum quality of training for seafarers, a review of the requirements for their medical fitness and stricter standards for patents are implemented. these improvements will bring european law into line with international standards.
in writing. the aim is to adapt the rules on the training of seafarers to the new international rules, decided at the manila conference, in order to avoid a gap between european and international law. these amendments introduce, for example, new requirements for the licensing of qualified seafarers and safety training. the deadline for the recognition of third country systems is also extended from 3 to 18 months.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the minimum level of training for seafarers. the european parliament's margin of manoeuvre was limited since the member states had already accepted the stcw international convention. these amendments represent progress in training and harmonization in the issuing of certificates of competency. they also improve fraud prevention and standards for service qualifications, medical requirements and requirements relating to alcohol abuse. in a sector where there are no frontiers, it is in the interest of seafarers and in the general interest that certificates issued by member states and third countries are recognised throughout europe. however, to avoid a bottom-up leveling, care must be taken to ensure that a number of common criteria are required. which we can be satisfied with. i also welcome the commission's initiative to require member states to provide available information on certificates, a relevant provision for establishing a state of play and a strategy for employment in this sector.
in writing. i supported this directive transposing into community law the amendments adopted by the international maritime organisation (imo) to the convention on the training of seafarers. europe is the world's leading maritime power, and its maritime industry is one of our jewels, a source of jobs and a driver of growth. it is obviously important to support our maritime know-how, especially since the competitiveness of the sector depends on the quality of the training of seafarers. the imo is the relevant body for the establishment of such regulations, given the international nature of maritime transport. the fact that the member states and the commission sit on the committee is a sign of confidence in the expertise of this organisation. recent disasters have led to improved safety training on board, and i stressed the need for crew members to have documents and procedures in their own language for ship operations and emergency situations. i also advocated strict rules on the licensing and inspection of seamen. maritime safety and security are too important for us not to be exemplary, and i welcome the consensus reached in this house.
in writing. like the majority of meps, i voted in favour of this text which aims to remove technical barriers to trade in industrial products between the european union and israel. it includes a procedure for recognition by a system of equivalence and a mechanism for mutual acceptance of industrial products of both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products. it provides for a procedure for the recognition of equivalence in the fields of technical regulation, standardisation and evaluation of the industrial products concerned and a mechanism for the mutual acceptance of industrial products. it is not a political assessment for or against the legitimization of israeli settlements or the occupied territories, which remain the domain of international diplomacy.
in writing. the european parliament has just approved the acaa the protocol on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products which will be annexed to the eu-israel association agreement. this agreement, as adopted, does not guarantee that the products that will reach our market will not be produced, in part, in the colonies, contrary to the provisions of european and international law. it should be recalled that the european union condemns israel's settlement policy as illegal and took the decision in 2009 to freeze the improvement of its relations with israel (after operation cast lead against gaza). so there is a double discourse that is incomprehensible and incoherent. that is why i voted against the agreement.
in writing. at the plenary session on 23 october, i voted against the request for referral back to the inta committee and voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr vital moreira, on the acaa treaty. finally, the request for referral was not adopted. the report was adopted by 379 votes in favour, 230 against and 41 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i supported the agreement between the european union and the state of israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (acaa). this agreement should enable exporters in the european union who so wish to submit their industrial products to a single verification and certification before export, on the basis of the same criteria. even if the left wanted to use the vote on this agreement as a pretext for the policies of the current israeli government, it is the extension of a vital trade agreement which strengthens economic ties between the state of israel and the european union, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i supported the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the ec and israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products. this is a purely technical agreement which allows industrial goods of community and israeli exporters to be subjected to only one verification and certification. this saves time and money.
in writing. this report proposes to take a first step towards the full integration of israel into the european single market. under the pretext of completely liberalising trade in pharmaceuticals between the union and israel, the protocol endorsed in this text actually allows new products and services to be incorporated into this total free trade agreement without prior or subsequent parliamentary approval. i oppose this protocol for the strengthening of free trade it allows. but also for the political signal it sends. even as the israeli government continues its aggressive settlement policy and maintains the blockade of gaza in defiance of international law, this protocol strengthens its trade relations with the union without requiring any guarantees as to the origin of the products traded. by ratifying this protocol, the union would be sending a dangerous message to respect for international law. i vote against this text.
in writing. a majority of the european parliament gave its consent to this trade agreement between the european union and israel, known as acaa, which is part of the association agreement between these two parties. the agreement, which is presented as a purely technical agreement aimed at adopting common standards for pharmaceutical products, allows for the mutual recognition of certificates for pharmaceutical products, in particular by reducing the time taken for marketing due to the approval procedures. pharmaceutical products of both parties will have easier access to the market of the other party. other sectoral agreements, such as those on toys, cosmetics, etc., will follow shortly.) i voted against this agreement because it contributes to the improvement of relations between the eu and israel, without taking into account israel's policy towards the occupied palestinian territories. any deepening of relations between the eu and israel, including in the economic and commercial fields, must depend on israel's respect for the un resolutions on palestine and human rights. the majority of the european parliament, therefore, by giving its consent to this agreement, is affirming its unconditional support for israel's policy in the occupied territories and is sending more than a bad political signal.
in writing. like the european parliament, i voted in favour of this text which aims to redefine the european approach to aid to certain developing countries. the european union, the world's largest donor, needs to reform certain practices, including the criteria for the designation of countries receiving this aid. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. the problem is no longer wealth creation, it's distribution. the new procedures should also strengthen controls on the use of eu funds and thus ensure that the eu remains a driver of social progress in these countries.
in writing. as we approach the mdgs deadline in 2015, even though some of the objectives seem to have been met, we need to ask ourselves how we can improve our aid, make it more consistent with our trade policy, with our agricultural policy and with our foreign policy. the future of european development policy must be based on specific, measurable commitments and a short- and medium-term timetable. we must explain to our fellow citizens that the development of third countries is not only charity and solidarity, but also a source of development for us. just look at the markets that are opening up for europeans in the emerging countries: china, brazil and india. this is why 2015 should be designated the european year of development and, above all, of responsible development.
in writing. to develop, our partners need our support and trust. the union has a key role to play and is helping them as much as it can. but such help must not be at the expense of our own interests. to do that, we need to make sure that every euro we spend is invested where it will have the most impact. it is therefore necessary to strengthen dialogue and set clear priorities. it is because this report makes these demands that i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague charles goerens' report on the future of development policy because i think it is generally positive. the aim of the report is to focus on the priority aspects of development policy, i.e. in particular the criteria for official development assistance, independent strategic thinking, the question of differentiation (emerging countries), support for local trade. i am particularly pleased with the positive vote on the paragraph introduced by an amendment of the green group in the committee on development to refocus aid for trade instruments, which is currently targeted at export sectors, so that it also supports local and regional trade.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr charles goerens, on the future of the european union's development policy. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 540 votes in favour, 36 against and 65 abstentions. i'm glad you did. in his communication of 13 october 2011 entitled 'increasing the impact of eu development policy: an agenda for change', commissioner piebalgs wanted to open a broad debate on how to change our development policy to make it more effective and of higher quality. the report by my colleague mr goerens proposes concrete ways of achieving this objective. the rapporteur proposes, for example, more selectivity in the choice of partners, more precise criteria for financial envelope and official development aid, or consideration of inclusive growth and the role of economic growth in developing countries, which are a driver of social progress.
in writing. the european union's development policy must focus on a few priority areas in order to be effective. for example, we need to invest in inclusive growth, which is the key to social progress. however, it is important to keep a close eye on any project and to evaluate it to measure its real impact in terms of poverty reduction. development aid must also take account of emerging economies and their impact on the situation of the poor in the global south.
in writing. the european union and its member states are now the world's largest contributors of development aid: more than half of the funds allocated to developing countries come from the european union and its member states. we must constantly monitor the use of its funds and continue to combat some of its shortcomings. i therefore welcome the european parliament's resolution on the future of the european union's development policy. i believe that we must set priorities in the aid we wish to provide to developing countries in order to bring real added value to the actions undertaken by the union. the resolution calls for european aid to be concentrated on those countries most in need and for aid to middle-income countries to be gradually reduced. i also support the idea of involving emerging countries more in the financing of future development policies and cooperation agreements with developing countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to restore the balance between the european commission's proposals and the reality on the ground. it stressed the lack of dialogue and coherence between the different branches of external action, which led to a loss of effectiveness of the funds allocated and of the actions carried out under the development. for example, i supported paragraph 51, which states that 'aid for trade and the union's trade facilitation instruments ... must change to facilitate trade for local and regional markets'. the latter are a necessary preliminary step before entering the world market. i also supported paragraph 61 which calls for european companies established in third countries to be able to be sanctioned in their home countries for breaches of basic international social standards. i proposed this option in an opinion for the committee on international trade last year and it seems to me still as relevant in view of the increasing interdependence of national economies.
in writing. poverty eradication is one of the eu's longstanding objectives, and the eu is the world's leading provider of development aid. nevertheless, it is time to put words into action and that is the whole point of this report, which i supported. we are behind the millennium development goals, and our assembly is proposing a strategy to make significant progress, politically and economically. political action must be a means of establishing democracy and respect for human rights in a lasting way. the economic aspect must be focused on concrete issues: targeting funding on basic social services to improve living conditions, supporting micro-enterprises by improving the economic and legal environment and combating unemployment, or coordinating the action of public and private actors to rationalize the distribution of available funds. it is obvious that we cannot solve all the problems at once. the commission has therefore decided to take action in stages, focusing on those actions which will add the most value. this is how the eu will make the best use of development aid, a tangible expression of european citizens' solidarity with those who have nothing.
in writing. with the broad support of the european parliament, this report was adopted. the text seeks to alleviate the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises and to make them more competitive. as a businessman myself, i am aware of the difficulties, particularly administrative ones, faced by small businesses and that is why i voted in favour of this text which is in the direction of simplification. the text also seeks to strengthen the entrepreneurial potential of young people, women and migrants. any action to strengthen the competitiveness of these enterprises will help the european union get back on the path to jobs and growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on small and mediumsized enterprises: competitiveness and business prospects. this report highlights the major challenges facing smes in europe: it stresses the importance of the internationalisation of smes, the reduction of administrative burdens, particularly for micro-enterprises, and the aim of strengthening the industrial competitiveness of smes. in this sense, i strongly support this report and encourage the european commission to promote the theme of social entrepreneurship now.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rübig report on the competitiveness and business prospects of smes. i am convinced that europe must exploit the dynamism of these companies. i also believe that the european economy will only grow again if the union succeeds in strengthening the competitiveness of smes while adopting measures capable of reducing the administrative burden they suffer. i therefore support the recommendations in the report which stress the importance of the manufacturing sector and the need to promote entrepreneurship. finally, i welcome the proposals to encourage european smes to enter the international market.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises have everything to gain from the single market. europe has everything to gain from an integrated market in which smes can grow and trade without difficulty. i voted in favour of this text because it is ambitious and contains concrete measures. smes are the engine of european growth, and i am particularly in favour of measures to promote their interests abroad and to develop entrepreneurial mobility within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which promotes the competitiveness of our smes. it is now essential to give our smes all the tools to enable them to become more competitive in an increasingly competitive market. supporting this network of smes is to support the attractiveness and economic development of our territories. by adopting this text, parliament is showing that its role is to represent the interests of our citizens and economic operators by making their voices heard in the institutions. the measures proposed here to reduce administrative burdens are a helping hand to our smes in the difficult economic environment we are going through.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has taken up a major issue which is essential for growth in europe: the competitiveness of enterprises and industries. the commission and parliament share the same analysis: growth will only be possible if we undertake structural reforms aimed at modernising the european industrial system. this objective of competitiveness must be at the heart of our public policies. parliament therefore supports the lines of action proposed by the european commission: the internationalisation of smes, the reduction of administrative burdens and the strengthening of industrial competitiveness. the european parliament called for the launch of a multilingual portal to facilitate access by smes to essential information on the different legislations and administrative systems of third countries. parliament also called for the establishment of a european network of representatives of smes, which would be responsible for the coordination of the activities of the european commission and the member states. finally, parliament considered that strengthening industrial competitiveness and the competitiveness of smes also required exploiting the entrepreneurial potential of young people, women and migrants.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague paul rübig on competitiveness and business prospects for smes. the report was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament at its plenary session on 23 october. i'm glad you did. the report focuses on three areas: internationalisation of smes, reducing administrative burdens and enhancing industrial competitiveness.
in writing. supporting smes is an investment in growth. to this end, it is important to develop a multilingual portal enabling them to obtain information on the legislation and administrative systems of third countries. we also need a new, measurable and verifiable qualitative objective of a net reduction in the administrative burdens that too often hold back the growth of smes. it is also necessary to facilitate access to finance for smes. finally, when we talk about smes and competitiveness, we should not forget the entrepreneurial potential of young people and women.
in writing. as we are experiencing an unprecedented phase of deindustrialisation and social plans are being rolled out in succession, it is time to embark on structural reforms to get back to growth. we must create a competitive shock for our smes, which account for 99% of all businesses and 70% of all jobs in the eu. to achieve this we have several levers at our disposal and i think we must activate them all at the same time if we are to catch up. first of all, we must continue to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. considerable efforts have been made in this direction, but i believe that we can go even further, particularly with regard to the tpe. it is also imperative to improve lending to the real economy and to help mobilise private funds to support our smes. it is these wealth and employment creators who must be able to benefit from reasonable interest rates. finally, i would stress the need to reduce the tax burden which weighs too heavily on our companies. these three proposals must ensure the security and flexibility of entrepreneurship, which is essential if we want europe to remain a productive land.
in writing. the report aims to open negotiations for a possible global trade agreement between the world's two leading economic powers, the united states and the european union. as one of the most ambitious objectives of the eu's trade strategy, many technical barriers will have to be removed and unnecessary differences and excessively rigid regulatory standards between these two parts of the world will have to be overcome. i have given my consent to the opening of the negotiations, keeping a very close eye on the negotiations to come and without prejudging the final outcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on trade and economic relations with the united states. he makes important recommendations for a successful trade agreement between these two world powers. the dynamism of trade relations must be achieved by modernising trade rules and by improving the compatibility of regulatory regimes.
in writing. the union must continually deepen its relationship with this indispensable partner, the united states. it is a springboard for europe's economic recovery. i support the approach adopted in this text, which encourages reciprocal openness, but without sacrificing our most important requirements, particularly with regard to the protection of geographical indications or gmos.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is intended to match the european ambitions in our trade partnership with the united states. the strengthening of trade between the two major world economic powers is a major challenge in these times of crisis in order to restart growth.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague vital moreira was adopted by a large majority in the plenary on 23 october: 526 votes in favour, 94 against and 7 abstentions. the adoption of this own-initiative report will enable us to relaunch the debate on the opening of new negotiations on a comprehensive and ambitious bilateral trade agreement with the united states. my colleagues and i hope that the future agreement will be mutually beneficial, well balanced and based on reciprocity. the aim is to give a new impetus to bilateral relations, but also to multilateral relations within the wto.
in writing. my colleagues and i have agreed to open negotiations at the beginning of 2013 on a possible trade agreement with the united states. the strong growth and employment potential on both sides of the atlantic could create a genuine transatlantic market, while ensuring that the interests of the european union are protected, particularly in the agricultural sector. it is important to remember that the united states has the most important economic relationship in the world with a trade volume of 700 billion euros and a bilateral investment stock estimated at 2.4 trillion euros in 2011. this agreement could increase the gross domestic product of the european union and the united states by more than eur 163 billion by 2018, if half of the non-tariff barriers were removed. i am therefore in favour of opening these negotiations, while taking care in the agricultural sector to reach agreement on geographical indications, gmos, animal welfare, food safety and all the other subjects which we consider to be fundamental and on which we must not compromise.
in writing. i support the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement with the united states. the economic benefits of such an agreement could be considerable for the european union. if such negotiations are opened, however, they will have to be accompanied by the convergence and mutual recognition of regulatory standards, as well as the protection of intellectual property rights. the commission will also have to be vigilant in dismantling trade barriers and opening up public procurement.
in writing. this report is an ode to the creation of the great transatlantic market, which i am fighting against. it approves without any hesitation all the proposals of the high-level working group set up last november without the citizens knowing anything about it. alignment with the most liberal, establishment of an integrated transatlantic market, including in the field of services and in particular financial services, elimination of all customs barriers in the short or medium term, close cooperation from the outset of the regulatory processes, fight against protectionism in all its forms, ambition to establish 'global standards', proposal to establish an integrated market with nafta... it's all there. there's nothing missing. the only exception, of course, is the consideration of the general interest and the consultation of workers' representatives and national parliamentarians, which are the only aspects forgotten in the so-called transatlantic 'dialogues'. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the european union and the united states are each other's main trading partners, with the two economies together accounting for almost half of global economic output and nearly a third of global trade flows: a free trade agreement would clearly strengthen our relations. reviews are under way on both sides of the atlantic, with final results expected by the end of the year. at this point we need to determine under what conditions such an agreement could be mutually beneficial. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses in particular that this possible agreement must not be limited to the dismantling of tariff barriers. it also recalls our concerns about the protection of geographical indications and public services and the sharing of data. these concerns can only be resolved through regular, in-depth and open dialogue, both before and during possible negotiations.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that this debate is taking place on the revision of the 2006 directive, even though it is late, it is a bit cold here and some people are hungry elsewhere. this is a debate we have a duty to have for citizens who are increasingly questioning the use of their personal data in many areas. this directive is in many respects particularly controversial, as has been shown by the series of annulments of the german, czech and romanian transposition laws by the competent constitutional courts. what's the issue here? first and foremost, the intrusive nature of the privacy and data protection directive. while there is no question of calling into question the value of collecting logon data for the purposes of criminal investigation, certain questions, in particular those raised by the european data protection supervisor, remain relevant until a proposal for revision is put on the table. we therefore hope, madam commissioner, that you will provide answers to these concerns, which i think we share, on several points, such as, for example, the clear demonstration of the necessity and proportionality of such a mechanism; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not stored in a way that would be unnecessary for the purposes of the data protection rules. we must, as in many other debates, strike a delicate balance between the need for security and the protection of freedoms. in a society where information and communication technologies are ubiquitous, the protection of personal data, which is a fundamental right, must be strengthened and must not remain a purely theoretical right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. that is what we are asking you to do, commissioner. we thank you in advance.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not entirely share the optimism of most of my colleagues. i'm afraid we're going too fast. japan is a major trading partner for the european union, but is it a partner we can fully trust today? for decades the japanese have closed their market to us by means of ever more numerous and original non-tariff barriers. japan has committed itself to eliminating many of them in the run-up to a free trade agreement with the european union, but words have yet to be followed by action. i would have liked to have been certain, before we embark on difficult fta negotiations, and therefore of our partner's willingness and ability to play the game, that a significant number of non-tariff barriers have disappeared. we are moving too fast and we are going to start negotiations again which will not work, as is the case with india or mercosur. i do not understand why we are getting along with japan, when some of its neighbours are showing a much greater openness towards the european union, such as taiwan, which is also an important partner for the asian area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the monti report in 2010 found that the rules of the single market had focused primarily on competitiveness and the exchange of goods, forgetting to take an interest in citizens. to remedy this, the commission has put forward 50 proposals to relaunch the single market, including 12 priority legislative proposals, which are currently being considered and are due to be adopted. on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the single market this month, the commission is announcing a new set of proposals under the title single market act ii. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to refer in particular to the aspect of social entrepreneurship, cohesion and consumer confidence. i welcome the future improvement in the rules on product safety, which are of vital importance to consumers, universal access to bank accounts and the necessary transparency of bank charges. these laws can show that europe is protective, that it is useful and that it is not just about austerity policies. no, the european union has not given up its social model. we have a duty to maintain this bold ambition, despite the handicaps. on the other hand, as regards a europe which protects and gives citizens confidence, let me be more skeptical about the proposals relating to transport and energy networks. i am afraid that the commission is persisting in a certain ideology of liberalising network sectors, even though we have far from demonstrated the benefits for users, either in terms of price or quality of service. i think it is more urgent to respond to the concrete expectations of citizens and consumers with legislation on collective redress and framework legislation on public services, which we have been calling for for too long. the poor communication by mr barroso on these public services was clearly not up to the challenge, because these services are also intended to contribute to the renewal of growth in a new industrial strategy. the commission also welcomes the mobility opportunities offered to citizens by the single market. this is obvious, but it would be even better if we were guaranteed social and pension rights. this question of mobility is central to the legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications for which i am the rapporteur. this directive must and will show that europe can bring real added value for growth, jobs and citizens through intelligent cooperation between all the institutions and in all the member states. i am thinking in particular of the major innovation which is the creation of the european professional card. i thank my colleagues for the interest they have shown in this matter, since we have received over 650 amendments. i know we can reach good compromises, including on sensitive issues like notaries and nurses. we must then convince the council to overcome the frivolity of certain states within it, because that is the message that must be conveyed. the union can and must be a source of progress and shared wealth, for a positive and active solidarity between all its member states, animated by the same spirit of achieving their common destiny.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is proposing that we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market and push forward with its completion. in the field of transport, two axes are identified in act ii of the single market, namely rail and maritime. i am surprised that the road cabotage, which is scheduled for 2013, will not be mentioned here, since it will have a serious ecological impact and will lead to even more social dumping than is the case today. i am prepared to believe that this is an oversight, although it may be considered a fault. mr barnier, you can be proud of the results achieved over the last 20 years, but you cannot hide the reality of the social field and the crisis affecting europe on the employment front. let me ask myself about the reforms to come, whether in the shipping or the railway sector, from a single approach which would be that of the liberalisation of these sectors. mr barnier, it is time to stop this leakage. the single market is not a dogma. it is a tool to be used for economic development, the ecological transition and the social well-being of our fellow citizens. we cannot decently accept more without putting in place effective social and fiscal harmonization in any future directive. everyone must play by the same rules, commissioner. my group will be vigilant to avoid the deviations of the past and will demand on every subject where market liberalization is discussed a social and ecological package enabling us to strive towards fair competition, which brings development and prosperity to our continent.
madam president, commissioner, we welcome the initiative taken by jacques delors 20 years ago, at the very moment of the fall of the berlin wall. nevertheless, despite all the progress we have made since the beginning of our debate, it is clear that the single act is today synonymous with injustice, inequality and economic liberalism. so i would like to hear from you, mr barnier, commissioner, i would like you to tell us how we are going to build a fairer europe together, a facilitating europe, a protective europe. there are a number of avenues - and i would like to hear from you on this - which lie at the heart of the economic and social crisis as we unfortunately know it: tax harmonization, protective public services, minimum wages in europe, the establishment of stronger cooperatives that create jobs, the promotion of crossborder cooperation and the development of a fair trade policy. these are the challenges that we face twenty years later. i am counting on you, commissioner, to carry forward this fine policy of european construction together.
madam president, as my colleagues have said, the image of the european union, thanks to erasmus, is a good image. today, to jeopardize this banner of the european union, which has helped to impose a good image, which allows young people to have a response to their needs, at a time when many of our citizens have concerns about the european project, is dramatic. mr president, you have just pointed out the many problems that are arising for 2012 and also for the future of erasmus funding, but you do not give a firm answer! the question put to the member states today, and the question which is the subject of consensus in this parliament, is: 'will you increase your contributions to finance to meet the commitments you have made?' beyond erasmus, the question of financing education programmes and cohesion funds is a dramatic one. i am in favour of autonomous financing from the budget of the european union, which will enable us to get rid of the erratic decisions of the member states.
madam president, erasmus has its limitations, but it is one of the union's mechanisms that makes people, especially young people, appreciate the idea of europe. a system which builds a europe of sharing, of cooperation, not a europe of competition, of all against all. if the european institutions were really concerned about the general interest of the citizens, we would not be discussing restrictions, drastic cuts, but on the contrary, we would be acting collectively to give more scholarships so that erasmus does not only concern 3 to 4% of the students in the union, students who already face considerable financial difficulties. the worst thing would be to replace the present system with a loan system which would make students start their working lives with an extra financial burden on their shoulders. if we want europe to emerge from the crisis, we must move towards a considerable increase in the level of training, towards a colossal research effort. it is therefore our responsibility not only to save the erasmus programme but also to develop it and to respond to the challenges of our time. it would also be necessary to extend this programme to the continuing training of employees, in order to build employment and training security for all employees in the union at union level.
in writing. the erasmus programme has proved its worth by enabling millions of young people to study in another country, to improve their qualifications, to master a foreign language and to discover a different culture. this system contributes to the construction of europe but also to the personal construction of young europeans. any obstacle would be a setback in a context where citizens doubt the union and our young people doubt the future. but this programme is now the victim of a short-term vision of some member states which, in the name of defending liberal dogma, are putting at risk one of the union's instruments for investing in the future, namely training and youth. the discussions on the 2012 and 2013 budgets are well on their way to resolving this impasse. but this must not be disconnected from the ongoing negotiations on the financial framework 2014-2020. the proposal to freeze the eu budget is unacceptable, even though we are putting education and skills as the main assets in the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment. on the contrary, a substantial increase in the union budget is needed to overcome the crisis and prepare for the future.
mr president, i believe that in politics we should not be afraid of words. the internal market, which is 20 years old, has brought a lot. the benefits are considerable. but let us not mince words: we must say out loud that today the internal market will only find its full justification if it finally becomes a question of protecting our jobs and our industries. we must ask ourselves what will happen in the years to come if we do not change our practices. major dominant economies - china, korea, japan, qatar - will continue to buy our industries, our jobs, and then, the day these new masters of europe decide to relocate, we will be unable to react. that's why words are important in politics. i think we must agree that it is really time to put in place a genuine policy of protecting the internal market: european protectionism.
mr president, as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i have taken a close interest in the report by my colleague, mrs regina bastos, on the 20 main issues of concern to citizens and businesses. and we have discussed this report, in connection with our debate on the 20 years of the internal market. it is twenty years since the free movement of goods, people, services and capital was supposed to be fully exercised within our internal market, our area of life, of exchange and of freedom. i was first interested in the fact that the main concern of our fellow europeans is the difficulty of recognising professional qualifications and that we really need to be particularly proactive and effective. that is what our fellow citizens expect of us: that we should be able to put in place, in the very near future, procedures for the recognition of their titles, their skills and their professional qualifications that are much faster, simpler, more efficient and less costly. it's a real challenge. as the epp group's fictitious rapporteur on the subject, the modernisation of these procedures, i am actively working with the other members of the imco committee to really respond to this major challenge of mobility. more mobility for more europe is what our citizens are asking for.
in writing. this agreement, adopted by the european parliament and which i voted in favour of, aims to clarify the framework applicable to trade relations between the european union and serbia. the commission shall be given the possibility, at the request of one or more member states, to take safeguard measures, if necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the procedures for applying the ec-serbia stabilisation and association agreement and the ec-serbia interim agreement. the purpose of this report is to specify the detailed rules for the application of the provisions on tariff quotas for fish and fishery products, tariff reductions, technical adaptations of the combined nomenclature codes and trade defence instruments. i therefore support this report which proposes to align the amended text on the changes that the omnibus i regulation on trade brings to the five regulations governing the application of the stabilisation and association agreements with the balkan countries.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague iuliu winkler. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority (514 votes). while a stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and serbia was signed on 29 april 2008, the objective of the winkler report is to define, through a regulation, the detailed rules for the application of the provisions on tariff quotas for fish and fishery products, tariff reductions and trade defence instruments.
in writing. we voted on this report to clarify the modalities of the application of the ec/serbia interim agreement on trade and accompanying measures signed in 2008. in particular, the detailed rules for the application of the provisions on tariff quotas for fish and fishery products, tariff reductions, technical adaptations of the combined nomenclature codes and trade defence instruments are laid down.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a technical measure to update a system for the certification and control of products in trade with third countries.
in writing. imports of seeds are of great importance to our economy and agriculture. where it is working well, it should not be hampered. the report stresses that the existing regime is working well and calls for its extension. i support that objective.
in writing. the report by my colleague paolo de castro aims to facilitate trade and enable the eu to respond quickly to market demand for forest reproductive material. this decision will enable the council to lay down rules for authorizing the import of reproductive material from third countries under an equivalence system. i supported this report in plenary, and it was adopted by 558 votes to 7.
in writing. council decision 2003/17/ec establishes the list of third countries for which the principle of equivalence is recognised for the importation into the union of fodder plant seed, cereals, beet and oil and fibre plants until 31 december 2012. however, the revision of the new regulation on seed and propagating material will not start until september 2012. it is therefore necessary to extend the equivalence principle for a further period of 10 years, given the importance of the seed import regime.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to extend the period of validity of the access regime to the 12 nautical mile zone. considered a success, this coastal management system is a key issue in the conservation and exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. in january 2003, a derogation allowed member states to limit fishing to certain vessels in waters within 12 nautical miles of their baselines. as from january 2013, this derogation becomes part of the regulation. i fully support this initiative, considering that it contributes positively to the conservation of fisheries resources and that it allows the preservation of traditional fishing activities by introducing a differentiated access regime to coastal waters.
in writing. in the run-up to a renewed common fisheries policy, we must support this proven regime. the derogation from the 12-mile system is effective and crucial for european fishermen and seamen. i therefore fully support its extension and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the common fisheries policy (cfp) has not been able to preserve fisheries resources and the balance of the ecosystem, nor has it been able to prevent the economic and social deterioration of a particularly important sector of activity. the coordinated management of the coastal zone by the member states is one of its few successes. the extension of this area in space and time is therefore a step in the right direction for reforming the cfp as a whole. the future cfp must propose local solutions in partnerships with member states and large coastal regions. it will also have to give producers a greater role and improve consumer protection. finally, the new cfp should not be limited to a purely free trade approach. in international negotiations, fishery products must be considered as sensitive products, in the same way as certain agricultural products.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague ian hudghton on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. the report was adopted by a large majority, 658 votes in favour. i'm glad you did. the aim of this report is to extend the period of validity of the access regime to the 12 nautical mile zone until the entry into force of the new regulation on the common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. it is necessary to extend the derogations from the equal access rule in coastal waters, which were due to expire in december 2012. this measure is all the more necessary as the management of fisheries in coastal areas by the member states has produced stable and satisfactory results.
in writing. i approve the proposed renewal of the differentiated access regime to coastal waters. that is the basic point of this report. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted for the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, which was unanimously adopted in plenary, a historic moment! this report was certainly not problematic. the access regime to the current 12-nautical-mile zone, for which the member states are responsible for management and control, is one of the measures of the cfp introduced in 2002 which has the strongest support from all stakeholders and whose effectiveness is unquestionable. the report voted in plenary only had the effect of extending the validity of the scheme until 31 december 2014, after which it is planned to align it, through a new regulation, with the ongoing reform of the cfp. the vote was all the more unanimous because certain issues raised in committee were not taken up, such as the proposal to extend the derogation to coastal areas beyond the current limit. in order to avoid further extensions, the rapporteur had also proposed that the scheme be extended indefinitely. these questions will certainly be the subject of more detailed discussions when the future regulation, which is intended to cover a period of 10 years, is adopted.
in writing. adopted by the european parliament and myself, this text will strengthen the mutual protection of geographical indications and will contribute to the approximation of the legislation of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as a member of the european parliament delegation responsible for relations with that country, i have therefore followed the adoption of this agreement with great interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. i support this report, which aims to provide a framework for the mutual protection of geographical indications of the two parties with a view to improving the conditions of bilateral trade.
in writing. with our trading partners, we naturally exchange agricultural or food products. we are still doing this by ensuring that european interests are protected. this text will thus expressly protect our geographical indications, thus highlighting the richness and specificity of european agricultural production. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves the transparency of trade relations between the european union and moldova. this text will also make it possible to promote our local products better by facilitating their export to the moldovan market. the european union is thus showing its support for the products of our lands and is respecting its commitments to defend diversity.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague vital moreira, which was adopted by a large majority. the objective of this report was to adopt the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs.
in writing. this is to protect the geographical indications of the european union and the republic of moldova mutually, for example to prevent the misuse of the term 'european union' and thus to promote quality in the food chain.
in writing. as one of the world's largest donors, the european union must go beyond monetary donation. this text aims to ensure that this is the case. the convention, which includes new assistance mechanisms, aims to become more than a humanitarian tool by encouraging local production to provide long-term solutions to the food insecurity experienced by many states. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i have given my consent to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the food assistance convention (caa 2012). i believe that the 2012 caa is fully in line with the union's current work to combat poverty and eradicate hunger in the world in the context of the millennium development goals. the amendments are a real step forward and i therefore welcome the conclusion of this convention.
in writing. the union has clear, strong and ambitious food aid objectives, and this is to be welcomed. this report takes a beneficiary-oriented approach, to be as efficient as possible: we need to ensure that every euro we give is used to the best of its ability. i therefore fully support this text.
in writing. today, hunger and food insecurity are two global scourges that have yet to be eradicated. in 2010, about 13.6 percent of the world's population, or 925 million people, were undernourished. the first victims are usually children and women. the european union has been working for many years, with its main international partners, signatories to the united nations convention on food assistance, to put an end to this situation. its annual commitment to emergency food aid to developing countries is €200 million. with the implementation of the new food assistance convention, eu aid will no longer be provided solely in the form of emergency food products. this assistance may also consist of usable purchase vouchers or seeds to rapidly restore the conditions for food self-sufficiency for the most affected rural populations, and thus avoid long-term dependence on international food aid.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague nirj deva in plenary. this report was adopted by a large majority in the plenary on 25 october. the aim of the vote was to adopt the food assistance convention on behalf of the european union. i am pleased to see that there is a broad consensus among all the political groups in the european parliament on the question of food aid.
in writing. i supported the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the convention on food assistance. the fight against hunger and malnutrition must be a priority. quality nutrition in underdeveloped countries is essential if these countries are to break the cycle of poverty.
in writing. i am in favour of ratifying the new version of the food aid convention (fac). the fact that it incorporates in its principles the need for food aid not to overwhelm local markets, not to create new dependencies, not to increase the debt of the states concerned, not to serve the interests of the richer states and that the states parties and the union are willing to buy the necessary foodstuffs on local markets are all essential points, which i welcome. i regret, however, that the states parties and the union do not commit themselves to respecting these principles when negotiating trade agreements. i also regret that the ban on blackmailing with food aid is not binding. finally, i regret that the minimum commitments of the states parties and the union may vary from one year to the next. i shall vote in favour of it, however.
in writing. consular protection is an integral part of the union's policy on citizens' rights. this text allows european citizens, in the event of a crisis or the absence of consular representation in an area, to apply to the consular representations of another member state of the european union with the assurance that their request will be dealt with. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bauer report, which calls for better consular protection for european citizens abroad. consular services must provide equal protection to all citizens of the union, irrespective of their nationality. this is particularly true where a european national is not represented in a third country and seeks the assistance of the diplomatic services of any member state of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on consular protection of union citizens abroad. this report distinguishes between two types of consular protection: local consular protection, which should be the responsibility of the representations of the member states; and consular protection in crisis situations, for which the member states should cooperate under the coordination of the union delegations. i support the broad lines adopted, such as the definition of personal scope, access to consular protection and cooperation, local coordination and crisis assistance. it is important, for example, that the union delegation can seek support from instruments such as the union civil protection mechanism in crisis situations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bauer report and the solidarity measures it proposes. it is time to give substance to the right of citizens of the union to be assisted in third countries by the diplomatic and consular authorities of all the member states. i support the idea that the union delegation should be given the financial means to ensure coordination in crisis situations. i also support the idea of better crisis management training for staff in consulates and embassies.
in writing. what does european citizenship mean in everyday life? it will mean that we will be protected everywhere in the world in the same way as any other european, without distinction. the text contains very concrete and innovative measures to ensure that each state bears this burden in a fair and just way. i welcome the support and help it will provide to european citizens in difficulty in a foreign country.
in writing. the events in libya and egypt, which have forced many europeans to return to their home countries, as well as natural disasters such as the earthquake in japan last year, demonstrate the need for optimal consular protection of european citizens abroad. the diplomatic and consular services of the member states must therefore offer all european citizens seeking assistance abroad, whatever their nationality, the same protection as their own nationals. from now on, any european citizen whose state is not represented in the country where he is will be able to count on the solidarity of the other member states and, if necessary, be supported by the european delegations abroad. the coordination of the diplomatic resources of the member states and the union is an important step in the assertion of the eu's external role. this common approach is a very concrete sign of solidarity between all european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the right to consular protection of union citizens travelling or living in a non-eu country where their own member state is not represented. while the european union is often criticised for being distant from its citizens, the strengthening of consular protection for eu citizens abroad is a concrete example of what europe can offer its citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which guarantees better consular protection for eu citizens abroad. the diplomatic and consular services of all eu member states must give any eu citizen seeking help abroad the same protection as they give their own nationals. we also call on eu delegations to play a key role in strengthening the protection of eu nationals in third countries. this proposal provides a good example of how more europe does not necessarily mean more bureaucracy or more brussels. any eu citizen in difficulty abroad, for example after an accident, violence or theft, or in a crisis situation, should be free to seek assistance from the embassy or consulate of any eu member state or, where appropriate, from the eu delegation, if his or her own country is not represented.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which aims to implement article 23 of the lisbon treaty on consular protection, one of the main rights conferred by european citizenship, and article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights, aimed at providing assistance to european citizens not represented in a third country. consular protection is one of the practical expressions of what a facet of european citizenship can be in everyday life. this is also an opportunity to share responsibilities more effectively in the event of a crisis. the debate also provided an opportunity to reflect on the future role of the european union delegations, which could in future carry out consular tasks on a daily basis on behalf of unrepresented citizens. this would also have the advantage of strengthening more european diplomacy, improving european citizenship and the visibility of the union. finally, it would ensure that the fundamental rights of all are guaranteed. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament, and it is therefore not surprising that the council has taken a number of decisions on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague edit bauer on consular protection of union citizens abroad. the report was adopted by a large majority, 596 votes in favour. i'm glad you did. the aim of this report was to facilitate access by union citizens to their rights, in particular the right to protection in third countries. the new provisions in this report are all the more important as consular protection is an expression of european solidarity and the union's identity in third countries.
in writing. parliament adopted the report by my colleague edit bauer which makes it possible to strengthen consular protection for eu citizens abroad. the diplomatic and consular services of all eu member states must give eu citizens seeking help abroad the same protection as they give their own nationals. the report was adopted by 596 votes to 66, with 12 abstentions. i voted in favour of this text because consular protection of european citizens by the embassies of the member states, in case of difficulty abroad, helps to consolidate the feeling of belonging to european citizenship. the european union delegations in third countries must now assume responsibility for ensuring cooperation and coordination between member states, including the division of tasks to ensure that unrepresented citizens are fully assisted in the event of a crisis.
in writing. when european citizens are abroad and in difficulty, they have the right to apply to any embassy or consulate of another eu member state if their country is not represented. this right to consular protection is a fundamental right which i have been anxious to reaffirm. i have been committed to ensuring that this right is better guaranteed, in particular by involving the delegations of the european union in a crisis situation, so that every citizen can be protected.
in writing. this report encourages solidarity between consulates of the eu member states in assisting european citizens, their families, whatever the nationality of their members, refugees and stateless persons. i am in favour of this and welcome the prospect of such solidarity. i regret, however, that the budget cuts introduced in the name of austerity, which the majority of this parliament is calling for, are reducing the protection that our consulates can actually provide. i am voting for this text to show my agreement with the principles of consular solidarity which it professes but to denounce the incoherence of the commission and the european parliament in this matter. i repeat my opposition to the creation of the useless, costly and empty service of so-called european diplomacy.
in writing. personally supporting this text, i am pleased that the european parliament voted in favour of this report, which sets out the main concerns of european citizens about the single market, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary. the single market, the real foundation of the european union, can be further improved and can make it easier for europeans to move around. the main issues are the recognition of diplomas, reimbursement of health costs between member states and pensions. administrative formalities should be simplified. the european parliament has set itself the target of reducing them by 25%.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the 20 main concerns of european citizens and businesses about the functioning of the single market. this report is an accompanying document to the single market act and aims to show the coherence of the proposed actions and the real concerns of european citizens. it stresses the importance of promoting mobility in the european labour market and of improving the recognition of professional qualifications, which are the key elements of a single market for european citizens. i support this report, which proposes to set up mechanisms to facilitate the participation of smes, in particular through information points. we must continue to strengthen social cohesion at all levels and support our smes, the main job creators, in order to boost growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bastos report on the concerns of european citizens and businesses about the functioning of the single market. i note that there is still a gap between the expectations of the single market and reality. in addition, citizens and businesses still face concrete obstacles in exercising their rights. that is why i believe that it is more necessary than ever to strengthen cooperation between the institutions, to give a new lease of life to the single market and thus contribute to innovation, growth and jobs. i also support the idea of improving the information of citizens and businesses on their rights by simplifying administrative procedures.
in writing. the single market is our greatest potential for growth. we have an obligation to do everything possible to remove the barriers, which are still too many, to this. this is firstly achieved by identifying them, and to do so we have highlighted the 20 main concerns of our citizens and businesses. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is a necessary first step in identifying the obstacles so that we can better tackle them.
in writing. the creation of a large single market based on four fundamental freedoms (the movement of goods, capital, people and services) is a decisive step in the construction of the european union. however, there is still a gap between the expectations of european citizens and the reality of the single market. eu citizens and businesses still face too many obstacles, often in their daily lives, to exercising their rights. these may include the financial costs of registering a vehicle, the impossibility of opening a bank account abroad or the difficulties in recognising professional qualifications. it is essential in this respect that the community institutions are able to provide rapid and concrete solutions to the remaining shortcomings in order to respond effectively to the main concerns of the citizens of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves the governance of the european single market and proposes to improve information and communication on union law and its application. these measures are designed to improve the daily lives of european citizens so that they can make the most of the facilities offered by the european single market.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague regina bastos in plenary, which was adopted by a large majority. i'm glad you did. as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market, the bastos report has highlighted many of the shortcomings of the internal market. it stressed the need to remove obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market, such as the lack of information for consumers and businesses, the difficulties in implementing legislation and the problem of the legislative vacuum. nevertheless, despite these persistent shortcomings, the bastos report welcomes the proactive approach of the commission in many areas, including the recognition of professional qualifications, the reform of public procurement and the development of alternative means of resolving consumer disputes.
in writing. in the context of the preparation of the single market act ii, the commission drew up a working document covering all the concerns of european businesses and citizens. the report by my epp colleague regina bastos, entitled 'the 20 main issues of concern to citizens and businesses', is the european parliament's contribution to this reflection. i note that the improvement of the system for the recognition of professional qualifications is once again the main concern of our fellow europeans and that, rightly, the european parliament is strongly advocating greater simplification and efficiency of these procedures, in particular through the creation of a european professional card.
in writing. as we celebrate 20 years of the single market, we need to ask ourselves what the real concerns of european citizens and businesses are in order to continue to strengthen the single market. there are still too many obstacles to their full benefit. there is still a long way to go in terms of recognition of professional qualifications or the portability of pensions, for example. we must also work towards creating a genuine digital single market.
in writing. like the european commission report on which it is based, this text recognises that european citizens (whom both refer to as 'consumers') make up the internal market. it must be said that the recent eurobarometer surveys left no room for doubt. but these two reports have another point in common which is not lacking in salt: they draw no conclusions from the denial of the neoliberal experience! they are calling instead for more competition, more flexibility in the 'labour force' and total liberalisation of the energy market. a perfect example of the total deafness of the liberal majority which holds the reins of the european institutions. i vote against it.
in writing. as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market this year, it is clear that citizens and businesses are not yet reaping the full benefits of it. they encounter three types of obstacles: lack of information on existing rules, gaps in the transposition of european legislation into national law, or the absence of legislation. in this resolution we ask the commission to take a number of measures to overcome these obstacles. at a time when europe is suffering from both an economic crisis and a crisis of legitimacy, it seems to me more necessary than ever to ensure that citizens and businesses get the most out of the benefits of the single market. when working on this text, i particularly stressed the importance of addressing the lack of information citizens have about their eu rights. in this connection, i am particularly pleased that the text adopted calls on the commission and the member states to increase the awareness of the europe direct service among the public. i am also pleased that there is mention of information campaigns targeted at citizens' concerns, which i consider crucial.
in writing. too many obstacles still prevent europeans from taking full advantage of the single market, as we celebrate its 20th anniversary this year. this is the conclusion drawn by the european commission in its working document listing the 20 main concerns of citizens and businesses about the functioning of the single market. i fully agree with the analysis presented in the resolution adopted today, namely that these concerns are due to three shortcomings: the first in information, the second in implementation and the last in legal loopholes. in particular, i support the proposal that member states should establish a single point of contact for all mobile citizens in the union, enabling them to handle the administrative procedures related to their work and home and to be kept informed of their rights and obligations in one place in their host country. it not only facilitates the daily lives of expatriate citizens, but also promotes the mobility of all citizens and the exchange of good practice between all national administrations. i believe that this is the kind of initiative which will bring all europeans closer together.
in writing. this appointment has crystallized the issues of gender equality within the european union, particularly with regard to the executive board of the european central bank (ecb), since there are no women on it. for this reason, the european parliament has advised the council of ministers of the european union to reject the appointment of yves mersch as a member of the executive board of the ecb. although i am a strong supporter of parity, i decided to vote in favour of his appointment because i felt that the ecb must be fully operational, especially in view of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing.
in writing. parity is not an ancillary issue, it is not an option that can be followed or not followed depending on the vagaries. no, it's a matter of civilization. the european union has always been at the forefront of this issue. the hesitations and the inexplicable resistance of the council and the members of the european central bank are therefore simply appalling. promoting women to positions of responsibility is a matter of external credibility, and even more so an internal issue. the lack of diversity of profiles explains in large part the disconnection of the elites, especially financial ones, from reality. it's time to learn from past mistakes. the european parliament has shown by its narrow victory that it was right to convey this message to the council with conviction. we are now waiting for action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank. i supported the appointment of yves mersch, who was a highly qualified candidate for this post; i understand the controversy this report has created, however, in view of the concern for parity of the candidates. however, i consider it a great pity that i have sacrificed yves mersch when the procedure would have been much simpler if the recruitment had been exemplary and if the ecb had proposed equally highly qualified female candidates.
in writing. the message is clear: we meps want the ecb's executive board to be able to include at least one woman. it is not mr mersch's competence that we are calling into question by voting against his appointment. it is simply inconceivable that in 2012 we should be experiencing such a decline. the european union - and the european parliament in particular - has always been particularly active in defending women's rights, equality between women and men and greater respect for parity in our public bodies and in business. we cannot teach others a lesson and not apply it to ourselves. the european council cannot ignore the will of the european peoples any longer. we, the women's representatives, ask him to propose a female candidate without further delay.
in writing. the european union must be at the forefront of gender equality. in action, not just in speeches. it must pursue this objective on its own territory while actively promoting it in its relations with third states. the principle of parity must really be applied in the european decision-making bodies and therefore in the executive board of the european central bank. the eu cannot claim to be a strong advocate of gender equality without guaranteeing women's access to management positions now, otherwise what legitimacy will it have to defend women's rights inside and outside the union?
in writing. the report by my colleague sharon bowles was rejected by 325 votes to 300 with 49 abstentions. for the first time, the european parliament rejected the nomination of a member of the executive board of the european central bank, namely luxembourg's yves mersch. the purpose of this rejection was to denounce the absence of women in the board. the lack of diversity and representativeness within the european central bank was also pointed out.
in writing. parliament did not give its consultative consent to the appointment of mr yves mersch to the executive board of the european central bank. my colleagues in the house voted against it in the interests of equality and the promotion of women in positions of responsibility. i voted in favour of mr yves mersch's appointment because i prefer competence above all else. i am of course in favour of parity, but the sex of the individual should not be the predominant criterion in the selection procedure. the rejection of mr mersch's nomination on the sole ground that he is a man has set a precedent which runs counter to what we are trying to defend. only competence must come first. it seems to me that by this vote the members are depriving themselves of a man of great quality at the european central bank.
in writing. i supported the appointment of yves mersch to the executive board of the central bank. the issue of parity in the executive board is a matter of real concern which the council cannot simply ignore, but mr mersch is a competent candidate. and in times of crisis we need the central bank and we cannot simply block the appointment of a new member to its board of directors.
in writing. i challenge the current statute of the ecb. that in itself is reason enough for me to oppose the appointment of any new member of its board who does not wish to change them. the fact that the council is proposing to appoint a man to replace the only woman on the board is another reason why i am opposed to it. parity must be the rule in the european institutions too. but yves mersch does not have only the double flaw of not being a woman and not wanting to change the statutes of the ecb. he is also, and above all, a militant neoliberal. i vote against this nomination.
in writing. despite the proven competence of mr yves mersch, i voted against his appointment as a member of the executive board of the ecb. if he were appointed, no woman would sit on the ecb's 23-member governing council until 2018. i regret that the council did not consider this possibility, when many other candidates would also meet all the criteria of competence for this post. i am not opposed to the man, nor even to his ideas or nationality, but to a lack of coherence on the part of the members of the council who, on the one hand, advocate gender equality and, on the other, show a clear disregard for this principle in their choice of candidate. this is a disastrous political message for all those who are fighting for greater female representation in the governing bodies. in future, i hope the council will not put us in this kind of dilemma again, so that our candidate is no longer the unwitting accomplice of an outdated sexism.
in writing. this text, adopted by a large majority in the european parliament and which i supported, aims to strengthen the european union's capacity to deal with the dumping practices of certain countries with which we trade. implementing the consequences of a judgment of the court of justice of the european union, this decision will allow us to improve the sampling procedure when checking trade practices and related products.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the protection of the european economy against social and economic dumping by certain partner countries of the european union. in these times of crisis, it is essential to protect europe from unfair competition from our economic partners. that is why we must open our markets on a reciprocal basis so as not to endanger the businesses in our territories.
in writing. i supported the moreira report in plenary, which was adopted by a large majority: 625 votes in favour, 13 against and 0 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the purpose of this report was to specify the sampling technique for the examination of met. this report was adopted by the inta parliamentary committee under the simplified procedure.
in writing. this report enables us to adapt european legislation to the recent judgment of the court of justice of the european union in case c-249/10- brosmann and others v council. it is clarified that the decision to limit the investigation to a reasonable number of producers by using samples on the basis of article 17 of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 also applies to the parties subject to examination in order to determine whether met may be granted.
in writing. the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on measures against dumping by third country companies could have provided the european parliament with an opportunity to revise the list of criteria used to measure dumping. the practice of artificially low wages in relation to the wealth produced and european wages (wage dumping), the existence of tax exemptions or reduced taxes on companies (fiscal dumping), the endangerment of the ecosystem (environmental dumping) are all criteria which should be used to judge whether there is dumping or not. instead, the international trade committee merely approved the commission's proposal to be able to judge more arbitrarily and without having to respect any deadlines which company is worthy of being considered a 'market economy company'. the commission alone judges the market? but who is to judge the commission? the market? i am voting against this inept text.
in writing. the aim of this report is to open negotiations on a possible comprehensive trade agreement between the european union and japan. as one of the most ambitious objectives of the eu's trade strategy, many technical barriers will have to be removed and unnecessary differences and excessively rigid regulatory standards between these two parts of the world will have to be overcome. i have given my consent to the opening of the negotiations, keeping a very close eye on the negotiations to come and without prejudging the final outcome.
in writing. without falling into the trap of protectionism, which would obviously lead us straight into recession, europe has clearly failed in its duty to ensure the basic principle of reciprocity in its trade agreements with third countries. if we cannot talk about a europe of the straw, it is certain that we must speak with a stronger voice with all our partners to ensure the viability of our agreements. japan is a major test in this context. as a major industrial and commercial power and a major world power in asia, the european union has every reason to increase its trade partnership. it is still necessary that it be concluded on a sound and reciprocal basis, which is still not the case at the present stage of the negotiations.
in writing. following the much-publicized eu-korea agreement two years ago, parliament gave its approval for the eu to open free trade negotiations with japan. while it is true that increased trade could bring considerable gains in growth and employment, parliament stressed that negotiations should be suspended if japan refused to remove obstacles in key sectors, notably the automotive sector. we also wanted a binding review clause within one year of the opening of negotiations, to assess whether japan has achieved tangible results in the elimination of non-tariff barriers. similarly, the eu can no longer afford to negotiate trade agreements without reciprocity in opening up public procurement. only proportionate and reciprocal trade will help to revive growth and employment in europe and worldwide.
in writing. the european union and japan, two of the world's leading economic powers, need to maintain balanced trade relations. eu-japan trade must therefore be based on the principles of reciprocity and loyalty for the mutual benefit of both parties. it is therefore essential that the japanese authorities show good will in removing non-tariff barriers on their markets, particularly in the pharmaceutical and automotive sectors. european companies must be able to invest in japanese markets under the same conditions of openness as japanese companies in european markets. if japan does not produce tangible results in the short term on the elimination of tariff barriers on its markets, the european union could then suspend negotiations on the possible conclusion of a free trade agreement. indeed, no one in europe would understand why the principles of balance and reciprocity should not be applied between japan and the eu, which have reached a comparable level of development.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because the reciprocity of trade between the european union and japan is not respected. this is particularly the case in the railway and public transport sectors, where european companies have very difficulty in accessing japanese public contracts. at the same time, japanese companies can submit tenders for public contracts in the european territory, which is unacceptable. finally, i am concerned about the consequences of this trade agreement on the french car market, which is already very disturbed.
in writing. the resolution on the european union's trade negotiations with japan was adopted by a large majority. the aim of this resolution was to discuss the advisability of launching negotiations for a free trade agreement with japan. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. however, i deeply regret that negotiations for a free trade agreement have been launched now. i think we're going too fast again. and like the negotiations with india and mercosur, these negotiations may never come to fruition. japan is a major trading partner for the european union, but the question is whether we can fully trust it. before embarking on such negotiations, we should have waited for concrete signs of goodwill from japan. it is clear that it has still not removed a significant number of non-tariff barriers and technical barriers to trade which make it difficult to penetrate its market.
in writing. my colleagues and i voted in favour of opening free trade negotiations with japan. increased trade with this country, which is one of the world's largest trading blocs, could bring considerable gains in growth and employment. however, the european union will have to show firmness and suspend the negotiations if japan refuses to remove obstacles in key sectors, notably the automotive sector and the european beef embargo, which has been in place since the mad cow crisis. reciprocity must be the key. a binding clause was added by the rapporteur, mr kazak, to assess progress in the discussions over a year. the vote on this text is important from a commercial point of view, given the economic weight of our japanese partner. in 2011, the trade surplus between japan and the european union was eur 18.5 billion out of a total of eur 116.4 billion in trade, and has a significant margin to increase. by comparison, trade between the eu and the us in the same year was €444.7 billion.
in writing. i approved the resolution on trade relations between the european union and japan and the advisability of launching negotiations for a free trade agreement (fta). the aim of a possible free trade agreement would be to encourage japan to remove non-tariff barriers and other trade barriers. but we, the members of the european parliament, in the resolution we have adopted, urge the council to introduce an automatic review clause after one year in the mandate it will give the commission, so that it can suspend the negotiations if japan does not show more willingness to open up.
in writing. while i support most of the conclusions, in particular that the negotiations should lead to genuine market opening and trade facilitation on the ground and not merely to legal opening in principle, i abstained from voting on this resolution on the possible opening of trade negotiations with japan. the eu-japan high level group set up in the 1990s to harmonise our rules has only managed to make progress on three texts: the japanese non-tariff barriers are still too numerous and public procurement too closed. good intentions and the effects of announcements are not enough; they must be matched by a lot of work and a strong political will. but for the time being, this political will does not seem to be showing itself on the japanese side. i expect the european commission to show the same lucidity and pragmatism. and i hope that she will not open negotiations until she is sure that an agreement will be truly beneficial to both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to strengthen the coherence of the european union's development policy. as one of the world's leading donors, the european union's development policy must not be limited to humanitarian support but must also include other technical and political elements such as climate change and local actors such as ngos and local assemblies. the aim is to move from a donor relationship to an equal relationship leading to the exit from poverty for these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption by the european parliament of the schnieber-jastram report on the coherence of development policies. as vice-chairman of the committee on fisheries, i paid particular attention to the paragraph expressing the link between fisheries policy and the european union's development policy. the report makes it clear that the european union is opposed to the introduction of transferable fishing concession systems under the rfmos. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is a good signal in the context of the current discussions on the common fisheries policy. i am firmly opposed to the system of transferable fishing concessions, which would lead to the concentration of fishing rights and the monetisation of the system.
in writing. the european union is a major player in development in the world. it therefore needs to coordinate its various programmes as closely as possible, with a clear and precise roadmap, which will enable it to set short and medium-term priorities, such as support for the poorest countries or establishing a timetable for achieving the millennium development goals. it is also important that european external policies in the areas of trade, agriculture or environmental protection are pursued in a coherent manner and that the whole of eu action is more readable. finally, the economic crisis should not be an obstacle to member states' contribution to official development assistance.
in writing. policy coherence for development (pcd) has become a very important topic in the eu development policy debate. the lisbon treaty establishes poverty eradication as a global objective of eu development policy (article 21) and, in order to achieve this objective, states the need for a coherent approach to eu external action, including trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate change, tax havens (article 208). unfortunately, the report in question is not an assessment of the implementation of the cfp or its weaknesses. it is more a report on what the dpc should be. there are good elements in this report, such as the recognition of the right of developing countries to democratically define their own policies and protect their economies. however, i could not afford, in the name of genuine policy coherence for development, to vote in favour of a resolution which encourages the development of agrofuels in developing countries and which supports agro-industry. this contributes to land grabbing, and it goes completely against the concept of food sovereignty.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague birgit schnieber-jastram in plenary. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 561 votes in favour, 47 against and 51 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the main objective of the union's development policy is to eradicate poverty in the long term, in line with the european consensus on development (ecd). the schnieber-jastram report calls for the union's development policy, which is seen as a political responsibility, to focus on five areas of action. these are the european partnership agreements, agricultural and fisheries policy, climate change and energy, migration and security. as such, the report stresses the need to improve coordination of peacebuilding, humanitarian aid and development activities in post-conflict situations.
the coherence of our european development policies must be a clear political priority for the european external action service. i think it is also important that we pay particular attention to migration issues in development policies.
mr president, commissioner, by adopting mr ferber's report, the european parliament will be drawing important lessons from the mif i directive, by adopting a text which will mean that almost all financial transactions will have to be carried out on regulated platforms. that is the sense we should give to this text. high frequency trading, a technique that allows a large number of orders to be executed in a few milliseconds, will now be heavily regulated. the crisis has exposed abusive practices related to the use of high-frequency trading by some financial actors disrupting the functioning of financial markets in order to make substantial profits. the position adopted by parliament is a good one, discouraging the use of this practice; it will help to put finance back in its place, in the service of the real economy and long-term investment. the report also aims to prevent speculation in foodstuffs, which can be devastating for entire populations, by imposing limits on the positions of the various players on the trading platforms. the destabilising effects of commodity speculation are becoming increasingly evident, particularly in food markets. in this context, the proposals adopted today are a first step in the right direction, since they impose limits on the positions that can be taken by traders on trading platforms. this report also provides us with a significant step forward: the european securities and markets authority, esma, will be able to intervene to prohibit the sale of certain financial products whose toxicity to the economy has been recognised. i would like to conclude by commenting on an important point which links the debate between the mif i and the text we are going to vote on here. in its examination of mif i, the main contribution of the european parliament concerned the question of the advice to be given to investors, in particular small investors, when they undertook an investment. the conditions for financing this council are still a matter of debate and we need to clarify them to ensure that everyone, regardless of income, can have access to this council under conditions which are both transparent and which actually enable him to be wise in his investment.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to say very quickly that i believe that parliament is doing its job with the commission and, i hope, the council soon, on a difficult subject, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a very good job with the fictitious rapporteurs. it is a subject on which, in my view, we must be careful not to fall into demagogy. sometimes, outside, people ask us, "what are you doing to better regulate the financial markets?" and people underestimate what we've done. nor should we give the impression that we can, with a magic wand, completely transform finance, especially since we need it. there is a balance point that has been found on transparency, on better organisation. it is important to defend the rights of consumers. there are still some minor differences between the groups on this, but in any case there is a real agreement that consumers need to be better protected and that access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises also needs to be protected. so these are complex questions. we'll keep working. i think, commissioner, that this is a big piece and that it is part of an even larger whole. i also welcome the fact that the supervisory bodies which we have helped to set up together will also be able to exercise greater powers in this area.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's report is an assessment of what has become an important element of european economic governance. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the groups with whom i have been able to do - and this is not just words - real constructive work and i believe that this report, as a whole, reflects the concerns of all of them, even if not all of them have been strictly taken up. this report was also drawn up in close cooperation, in accordance with rule 50, with the committee on employment and social affairs, which is why a number of provisions were included in full in the report, without a vote, in such a way as to fully respect these rules and the ideas of the committee on employment and social affairs; it was the rules that prevailed. i shall not go into detail on the various points on which we insist from the point of view of the content of the semester; i would like to speak instead about what has been our main concern, namely the method. the six-month period is, as i said, a very important element in the establishment of coordination of the economic and financial policies of the member states and it involves both the european and the national levels. this is the first innovation. if the commission's proposals are to be subsequently approved by the council before they are reflected as far as possible in the national budgets, then, as far as democratic control is concerned, there is a need for good understanding and coordination with the national parliaments. in this respect we know - and i think no one will mind me saying this - that some of our national parliaments do not have a full understanding of community mechanisms and that there is a certain apprehension that the european level will take over from the national level. that is why some people argue, quite rightly, that national sovereignty gives them the right to vote on the budget they want and that they do not have to follow instructions or oukases that come from elsewhere. there is certainly a lot of work to be done in terms of teaching and explaining, and more recently a meeting was held in brussels with representatives of the finance and economic committees of the national parliaments to explain the european semester. i have had the opportunity to say, as rapporteur, that the european parliamentarians had no intention of interfering in national relations and the functioning of national parliaments and that, in reality, the european parliament and national parliaments had a specific mission, that of ensuring democratic control at their level. i believe that in future such consultation meetings will be necessary to promote understanding of the system and its proper application. in this respect, it would certainly be desirable if these meetings, which are being organized in a rather empirical way at present, could be more formal and, in particular, those who come to these meetings could do so on a regular basis, so that a real dialogue could be established between the national parliaments and the european parliament. on methodological issues, we also stress the need, for example, for more explicit recommendations to enable the results to be evaluated and possibly corrected. i would also add that it is also important - this may seem obvious, but unfortunately the opposite is often the case - that the states keep their commitments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among the many challenges raised by the introduction of the european semester, i would like to mention two main aspects. firstly, this mechanism must not simply be a tool for formal monitoring of budgetary policies between member states and by the commission. on the contrary, the european semester must allow for sincere and thorough collaboration between the european parliament and national parliaments, in accordance with our respective competences and the democratic principle. this is the only way to ensure that national budgetary policies are complementary. secondly, as regards the european budget, our parliament, by a massive vote in favour of the report by our colleagues kalfin and böge, has pointed out that 94% of this budget is an investment budget. on this basis, i proposed in my opinion incorporated in the report to examine the possibility of excluding member states' contributions to the union budget from the calculation of the structural deficit as defined in the two-pack, six-pack and tscg. our parliament is fighting the mother of battles, that of a european budget that responds to the general interest of the union and its citizens. this proposal is in that direction, and is addressed both to the net contributor states and to the beneficiaries. it would relax the budget negotiation. it would make it possible to move away from the harmful logic of the just return and the search for the discount to a contribution approach in the noblest sense of the term. in addition, such a method of calculation would give value to all payments to our common budget, including those of the beneficiaries. i therefore ask our rapporteur, mr gauzès, to withdraw his request on behalf of the epp to withdraw this proposal.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the colleagues who have worked on this dossier because it is both very simple and very complicated. when you think about it, it's very simple. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. it is not a great idea, at first sight, that with a common currency it might be better, when we are making budgets, to try to talk to each other, to exchange ideas and to ensure that the european and national levels cooperate. on the other hand, it is very complicated because there is a lot of sensitivity in a certain perception of sovereignty, which is already shared, but which some consider pure and perfect. so i think jean-paul gauzès has done a very good job. what concerns me - and this has just been said - is how, in the end, what we write on paper will translate into practice. how are we going to achieve, over the years, that cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament is not a discussion, which is useful, but really control by the national parliaments of what they have to control, at their level, and control, at european level, of what we have to control and, in the end, a better policy for the citizens and for the stability of the currency. this report is a milestone on a road which, in my view, still has a long way to go.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i have a slight hesitation about giving mr eppink the opportunity to speak further. but i would still like to give him the opportunity to correct what he said about the imf's latest remarks. because, when you read carefully - obviously, you haven't - what the imf says about the european situation is the exact opposite of what you said. the imf is telling us that the policies currently being pursued will lead to more austerity, which is something that anyone who is intellectually honest - and you obviously still are not - can see in some countries where extremely harsh policies have been applied under the commission's authority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is only the first stage in the process of putting national budgets under the control of the member states, because it is not the only procedure. there are also the treaties, the protocol on excessive deficits, the pact for the euro plus and, in your inimitable jargon, the six-pack and the two-pack. there is the budgetary treaty, a classic international agreement which even this parliament, not so long ago, considered unnecessary and redundant. different or even contradictory objectives, different areas of application, different legal nature of texts, some of which are contrary to the provisions of the treaty itself. speaking in these conditions of legal ambiguity is an understatement. the ultimate purpose of this gas plant is truly unique. under the pretext of the crisis, strengthen the powers of the european superstate by giving the commission the right to monitor and dictate not only the amount of public deficits, but also the amount of budgets and the details of policies. the country-specific recommendations you want to elaborate, the commitments in the context of the euro plus, all go in the same direction: wages blocked or reduced, facilitated dismissals, protected professions deregulated, increased competition from all sectors, dismantling of social protection systems, the states' room for manoeuvre are ridiculous, as the pitiful pseudo-political alternation that has just taken place in france proves. you want democracy in this process? well, since your project is so brilliant, at least have the courage to ask the people directly instead of going through your friends in the political and parliamentary class!
mr president, commissioner de gucht, could you tell commissioners rehn and andor that this european parliament is taking the european semester procedure seriously? for this reason, when the european commission, on 28 november, puts on the table the annual growth review, which will serve as a guiding principle for 2013, we would like them to bear in mind several messages. first, the growth pact, which the heads of state and government wanted to be adopted on 28 and 29 june, and then the lessons of what the imf tells us, namely that a road map based solely on austerity is clearly not going to help the european union out of the rut. finally, we believe that the annual growth review, the definition of a european vision before the european council, is a good way of giving ourselves the means not only to condemn each member state in its budgetary policy, but also to draw up a common road map, which will enable us, for example, to correct macroeconomic imbalances. so please tell your colleagues that we have two important wishes. the first is that this european parliament should be able to intervene in the definition of this european road map. and for that we need a document which we can amend, even though we do not have formal codecision powers at the moment. secondly, if the member states have to submit national employment plans in addition to the national reform programmes and the stability and convergence programmes, then these documents must be taken seriously. the member states which do not do so must be punished or, at any rate, called upon to do so, with a vigilance which your colleague, mr rehn, has not shown this year. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr eppink clearly thinks that the shepherd's response to the shepherdess should be practised, and i would be happy to say that he should know the french situation better and that clearly the rules that apply here are not necessarily the same elsewhere. in particular, the country from which i come, and which you probably know less well than i do, is a country whose demographic situation is nothing like that of other european countries, which makes it possible, in a difficult climate, where the president of the french republic is seeking to re-establish the conditions for a fruitful social dialogue to carry out the reform, to take up a mandate on the basis of a decision which has been imposed in the light of the balance sheet of the previous president of the republic.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for conveying our comments to mr rehn, but he took the trouble to call me yesterday to explain that he would be held elsewhere today, and i was sensitive to this approach. it is sometimes said that our debates are nothing more than a series of words which have no direct bearing on the work presented by the rapporteur. i would like to try today to prove the contrary and to answer those of my colleagues - i thank all those who spoke - who made a request. as regards mrs trautmann's request, i shall be very serious about withdrawing amendments nos 4 and 5. of course, i have to tell my group because i'm a loyal little soldier; but i will do everything to please you and to follow the recommendation that my friend alain lamassoure gave me on the phone. as regards the reference to the tax treaty, there is indeed a paragraph in which we were pleased, but, strictly speaking, this reference is of no consequence. in addition, we could be criticised for speaking of intergovernmental cooperation in a community text. i shall therefore also ask the group for permission to delete paragraph 23 altogether. i hope that the excellent cooperation work which has been carried out during the preparation of this report will be able to continue until the vote and thus mark the determination of parliament to make the european semester a highly effective exercise. in this respect, i would like to say to mrs zuber: 'i am a little sorry, commissioner barnier has just answered her as well, but i believe that we are not living outside of time and if it were not for european solidarity, i dare not think what would happen in some countries today. i think we should take that into account. europe is not oppressing countries in difficulty. i think she's trying to help them.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, my first words will be to apologize to mrs iliana ivanova, who has been occupied by other parliamentary activities and has asked me to summarize the report of the committee on budgetary control. our committee recognises that financial instruments are useful for creating multiplier effects, leverage effects such as guarantees and tolls. but we draw your attention to the recommendations of the court of auditors and its 2010 opinion on ownership of instruments, risk taking, accounting, transparency, and building the capacity of union staff to use them. the second point is the links with the financial markets. we believe that these instruments should only be used when there is a failure of private supply, so as to avoid any distortion with the financial markets. finally, on a personal level, i regret that the idea of introducing a compulsory user contribution is not being considered, particularly for transeuropean transport networks for which we need funding, particularly for networks which are not immediately profitable.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mrs gardiazábal rubial on her work, which has shown a very good command of the subject and an excellent spirit of cooperation. the development of innovative financial instruments as proposed by the commission should be supported as it makes it possible to put finance at the service of the real economy, and to serve the growth and employment objectives that the union has set itself, despite a context of consolidation of national public finances. as the commissioner has pointed out, this is a good way of using the budget as a lever to support our projects. i'd like to make a few remarks. first, viable projects that do not receive adequate market funding should benefit from these instruments as much as possible, so that grants are reserved for less income-generating projects. secondly, we must ensure the visibility of the union's budget, which is at risk of being weakened by the complex processes generated by these instruments, especially as the general public's knowledge of the role of the european budget is already not very good. we shouldn't get lost in the arcana of these montages. thirdly, a balance must be struck between the necessary control by the budgetary authority over the use of european funds and the flexibility which enables these instruments to adapt to economic conditions and to be attractive for investment. finally, i would like to emphasize the role of these instruments in the prospects for the development of capital markets in europe, but also the importance of prohibiting the linking of these instruments to complex products.
madam president, commissioner, the free and exemplary elections in georgia, which we had the privilege of observing with a number of colleagues, have led to the democratic transition in that country, which is a great privilege in that region. the irony, of course, is that the people who won this election and who we should congratulate are also the people who, during the campaign, denounced a dictatorship run by criminals. it is to be hoped that these new leaders will be a little wiser and more reasonable in government action than they have sometimes been in campaign rhetoric. the european union, for its part - as you did very well on your first visit to tbilisi, it should be emphasized - must, without being paranoid but also without being naïve, be very attentive to what is happening in georgia, and judge the new authorities on their actions, on their results and not just on their declared intentions. the european union must also be vigilant in reminding its authorities that alternation is not revenge.
for the greens/efa group mr president, if we do not give pens to this young generation, the terrorists will give them weapons. these are the words of malala, who, at the age of fourteen, understands perfectly well that raising children and fighting against obscurantism go hand in hand. beyond the case of this young pakistani woman who has become a symbol, i want to remind you that this unacceptable situation is experienced by girls in afghanistan every day. the multiple violence they suffer is no longer the headline story it was ten years ago when we tried to justify our military action in afghanistan in the name of empowering afghan women. so i want to say it again: we must not forget them. this is the message that afghan parliamentarians came to convey when they visited the european parliament a few weeks ago. they fear that in 2014, after the withdrawal of isaf forces, their rights gained over the past decade will be simply traded for a return to calm in negotiations between the afghan government and the taliban. so yes, we must continue to condemn these practices of another age. but above all, the european union must financially support local women's associations who are fighting to keep schools open.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the agreement between the european union and the united states on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the objective of the energy star agreement revision was to develop simplification measures to make the implementation of the programme more efficient. the energy star labelling programme, an initiative of the united states, became applicable in 2001 and was renewed in 2006. given the high energy consumption of office equipment, it is important to encourage european manufacturers to improve the energy performance of these appliances. the presence of the 'energy star' logo on an appliance thus indicates that the appliance was designed in accordance with the technical specifications of the programme.
in writing. the energy star programme, we are familiar with, as we see the brand on many of our office supplies. it is a common eu-us programme, which is popular and has been successful. it's good that he's being reinstated today. i therefore voted in favour of this text, particularly because it stresses the measures to be taken to protect our smes.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague béla kovacs, which was adopted by a large majority in plenary. the purpose of this report is to enable the energy star programme to continue in the european union. this program was created by the u.s. environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. this is a relevant and particularly effective programme. i am pleased that this programme has been renewed.
in writing. this text, which i supported and which was adopted by the european parliament, is a response to the crisis situation in the european union. the aim here is to mobilise part of the european budget to strengthen its innovative financial instruments. in practical terms, this means that a budget will be allocated to financing public or private projects with high potential but which are having difficulty finding investors due to the current unfavourable economic environment.
in writing. financial instruments are a tool of choice for the rational management of public money: by multiplying the impact of each euro invested, they promote the good management and success of the programmes in which we are involved. it reminds us that if we support these innovative tools, we demand that they be used properly and transparently. european taxpayers have a right to know how their money is being spent, and should not be kept in the dark by excessive technicalities or an overly complex legal framework. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which recalls these basic requirements.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which improves the effectiveness of the innovative financial instruments set up within the union to stimulate investment. these financial instruments encourage the development of our enterprises, which form the economic fabric of our territories, and that is exactly what we expect from the european union in these times of crisis.
in writing. the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, was adopted by a large majority at the plenary session on 26 october. this report relates to innovative financial instruments in the next multiannual financial framework. innovative financial instruments are different from the traditional grants for the european budget. these include project bonds. the idea of the gardiazabal rubial report is to develop them further, while rationalising their use. for the commission, the use of innovative financial instruments is a means of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy despite the context of budgetary austerity. the report sets out the criteria for using innovative financial instruments, the conditions for their implementation, the control and monitoring arrangements and the adjustments to be made on the basis of the eu's experience in this field.
in writing. the report has the merit of pointing out that public investment is necessary to develop public infrastructure and that private investment tends to be characterised by a short-term profitability logic which does not allow certain essential projects to be completed. but he doesn't draw the right conclusions. it proposes to develop private partnerships and to confine public power to a role of substitute for the market and protector of private investors. the text thus maintains the recipe which tends to prevail in the eu. i vote against this organized waste.
in writing. this text, for which i voted, constitutes the european ombudsman's activity report for 2011. created by the maastricht treaty, it is a vital link between the european union and the citizens of europe. the latter can thus lodge a complaint in the event of maladministration by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union.
in writing. the european ombudsman is a vital link in the continuing dialogue between the union and european citizens. the annual report of the commission is a good example of the confidence it has gained in those who have approached it, and we can only commend it. i support this text, which recalls the successes of the ombudsman and sheds light on the efforts we still have to make.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague erminia mazzoni, which was voted on in plenary on 26 october. this annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman, nikiforos diamadouros, in 2011 was adopted by a large majority: 499 votes in favour, 10 against and 17 abstentions. i'm glad you did. this report showed a gradual decrease in the number of complaints submitted to the ombudsman. despite some real progress, it is clear that the proportion of complaints handled that fall within the ombudsman's competence remained relatively low in 2011. to remedy this problem, we have stressed the need for a broader and more proactive information campaign among european citizens on the ombudsman's field of competence.
in writing. this report has two interests. first and most importantly, it reveals that most of the complaints of maladministration concern the european commission, further proof of the obscurity of this uncontrolled body. the second is a reminder: the european ombudsman is useless. if the part of the budget allocated to it could be allocated to the translation of the documents on which we have to work, the sum spent would have the merit of being useful. i would point out that the documents produced by the commission are sometimes not translated for several weeks, that the speeches of members in session have not been translated for almost a year and that we still have to work on texts in english. the european institutions are supposed to work in all the languages of the union. his failure to do so is the height of mismanagement.
in writing. i support this text because it will completely reshape our financial markets. we must regulate them better, make them more transparent, and fight excessive speculation. it took a long debate to reach this result, but we can welcome the adoption of this text. financial markets should be in the service of the real economy, not the other way around.
in writing. this report and the proposal for a mif ii directive which it amends are nothing but an attempt to mitigate a little the dramatic consequences of opening up stock exchanges to competition. i welcome the report's call for greater transparency and the prevention of conflicts of interest. but the report clearly does not live up to the challenge. it maintains the granting of european passports to all trading platforms and even offers the possibility of granting them to those of third countries. it does not prohibit parallel forms of negotiation but chooses to include them in the scope of the directive under the heading 'organised trading systems'. it does not prohibit high frequency trading. it does not prohibit speculation in raw materials. it maintains exemptions on the transparency obligation for platforms. we cannot tame the financial markets with quotas and exemptions and by opening them up to ever greater competition.
in writing. this text is the result of the clear objective we have set for financial markets: to create safer and more transparent markets for all. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which i support, and which provides for important measures to increase transparency and investor protection.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague markus ferber on markets in financial instruments and the amendment of the emir regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties and central repositories. the report was adopted by 497 votes in favour, 20 against and 17 abstentions. the rapporteur focused on the following points: an obligation of transparency, the introduction of a new class of organised trading facility (otf) for bonds, structured financial products, emission allowances and derivatives, ensuring uniform conditions of application between trading platforms and, finally, investor protection.
in writing. this report and the draft regulation it amends fall far short of what the situation requires. i welcome the strong desire to require greater transparency and to give the competent national authorities the power to ban certain financial products and certain financial activities or practices permanently. but why should esma have a say in the matter? as for the rest, it is only a cushion for the consequences of the liberalisation measures introduced in 2007. why should alternative trading platforms be included in the scope of this regulation rather than prohibited? why not ban derivatives and short selling? why even say that it is not about making them more expensive? and why should exemptions from the obligation of transparency still be maintained? we cannot combat speculation by simply monitoring it more closely. we must put an end to free competition between trading platforms.
in writing. the european semester was originally set up to support member states in drawing up and implementing their budgets. the text adopted by the european parliament, which i voted for, stresses the need for the member states to fully respect their commitments, in particular on sound public accounts management and the rapid reduction of excessive deficits.
in writing. the european semester, a new form of coordination of our national economic policies, is a recent instrument for the union. the idea is that by exchanging draft budgets, draft national reforms, we can develop a vision of the economic situation of the euro area as a whole. the initiative is part of the process of strengthening economic governance but, as the report recalls, it must involve all stakeholders: the european parliament, national parliaments and civil society. at the moment, that's far from the case. the emphasis must be on growth and employment - promoting quality jobs, developing new tools to combat unemployment, but also and above all working to preserve our european social model. this report, which i do not share in all its observations, nevertheless emphasizes these important elements which are at the heart of the political debate, both national and european, at the present time.
in writing. i supported this report on the european semester because it takes account of the demands of the employment committee, of which i am a member, for a review of economic and social policies to ensure that there is real coherence in all our policies for growth. economic governance has been the eu's main concern for the past two years, it is time to focus on the establishment of social governance which could be initiated from the top via our governments, and from the bottom via socially virtuous and identifiable companies, as i proposed in this report which has just been adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the economic cohesion of europe. the european union is putting safeguards in place to prevent the public finances of the member states from deteriorating in the future, thereby dragging other countries into a negative economic spiral.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague jean-paul gauzès in the plenary. the report, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies and the implementation of priorities for 2012, was adopted by 430 votes to 90, with 8 abstentions. i'm glad you did. while the european semester is one of the cornerstones of the whole range of economic and governance measures, my colleagues and i call on the commission to ensure that greater democratic legitimacy is given to the process. we regret that the european parliament has been left out of the main economic decisions taken in the context of the crisis. the main sectoral contributions for the 2012 european semester are and have been: employment and social policies, fiscal policies, the internal market and the gender dimension.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester by my colleague jean-paul gauzès. the european parliament, by voting for this report, demonstrates that it continues to be a force of proposals for the strengthening of budgetary and economic coordination between member states and between european institutions, and reaffirms its determination to work more closely with national parliaments and calls for their greater involvement in the european semester procedure.
in writing. the report calls for action to combat low labour market participation by disadvantaged groups, tax fraud and evasion, and gender inequalities. it also has the merit of recognising that parliamentarians cannot exercise any control over the european semester process. but that's all the positive that can be said about him. the rest is strictly in line with the austerity propaganda that prevails within these walls: call for the ratification of the merkozy treaty, support for greater flexibility in the labour market, calls on governments to comply with the commission's requirements in the context of the european semester, satisfaction with the austerity policies implemented and commitment to the rapid liberalisation of the transport and energy sectors. the fight against gender inequality supported by the text is undermined by the absurd claim that women 'choose' parttime jobs which are precarious for them. i am voting against this text and denouncing it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia trade relations at the plenary session on 26 october. this resolution is part of a multilateral framework with russia's accession to the wto on 22 august and part of a bilateral framework with the eu. while a new partnership and cooperation agreement is being negotiated, the resolution calls on russia to adopt a consistent and credible trade policy, to respect its wto commitments and to apply the provisions of the wto agreement on intellectual property. finally, my colleagues and i demand that the new bilateral agreement guarantee convergence of certification systems, the development of an open and transparent eu-russia energy market, reciprocity in public procurement, protection of all forms of intellectual property and a modernisation of the dispute settlement system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the elections in belarus. this resolution was adopted by a very large majority. with this resolution we wish to express our concern and dissatisfaction with the organisation and results of the parliamentary elections on 24 september. while alexander lukashenko has been the undisputed leader of belarus for over 18 years, we denounce the climate of intimidation and election fraud.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the elections in georgia, which was adopted by a large majority. the resolution comes after the participation of 1,500 international observers in the parliamentary elections in georgia on 1 october. their mandate was to investigate possible violations of the electoral law and the proper conduct of the elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i don't need to explain at length that the situation in gaza is very fragile. i don't need to explain very much that we are on the verge of a war here, not just between israel and palestine, but in the entire region. that is why i think it is important that this parliament now gives an opinion, a clear position, so that we can then - the council will deal with this too - give the council and the next summits a clear position from parliament. we can't put this off. this is a dangerous debate and i think it is our duty as political actors to have a clear position on this, and to do so in the form of a resolution.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is common practice to see that the european judicial area operates to the detriment of ordinary citizens and small businesses. it is particularly useful for large companies and for those of our fellow citizens who can afford to hire a battery of national and international lawyers. the sinister case of the extradition of aurora martin from france to spain is an illustration of this. this case is a disgrace to france and to the european union. the text before us, far from being an improvement on the existing situation, proposes to aggravate this inequality between those who are liable. thus, a judgment given in one member state would become enforceable, without any intermediate proceedings, in another member state. the right to challenge the recognition or enforcement of a judgment of a member state on the ground of its manifest incompatibility with the public policy of the member state in which the judgment would be enforced or recognised is a real regression. there would be little scrutiny of the jurisdiction of the courts of origin. we would be facing a justice system that works like an automaton. i cannot in any way endorse such a text, especially after the scandalous precedent of the aurore martin case. in conclusion, this text perfectly illustrates the european institutions' drift towards authoritarianism, to say the least, in the context of the crisis of its ultra-liberal economic model. yes, we are moving from a liberal europe to an ordo-liberal europe.
in writing. the compromise to be voted on tomorrow marks an important step in the fight against terrorism, as it limits the general public's access to products that can be used as precursors in the manufacture of homemade explosives. the regulation identifies dangerous substances, listed in the annex, which will be banned from the public beyond certain concentration limits. we want to prevent as much as possible that malicious people have access to these substances. however, for the normal use of these products, the framework we will adopt allows flexibility through the possibility of limited derogations. it is therefore provided that member states may allow the purchase of such products by persons who obtain a licence from their administration. in addition, a more flexible control system is provided for three products which are widely used by the general public, for example as fertilisers or pool cleaners. finally, any suspicious transactions will have to be notified by traders to the competent authorities. these provisions increase the safety of european citizens by better controlling the purchase, use and possession of explosives precursors within the eu.
mr president, the european parliament must take note of the events that have taken place between france and spain, but which concern european democracy as a whole. aurore martin is a basque political activist of french nationality, living in france, against whom spain has launched a european arrest warrant for offences related to her membership of the batasuna movement, a movement banned in spain because of its alleged links with eta. as such, aurora martin's activities have been deemed to be related to a terrorist organisation and are subject to heavy penalties in spain. on the other hand, batasuna is a party which is authorized in france and the same political activities as those of mrs aurore martin are perfectly legal there. however, she was recently arrested by the french police and was immediately handed over to the spanish police. how can we accept that the european union, which is supposed to improve the freedoms of european citizens, allows the european arrest warrant procedure to be hijacked in order to level political freedoms in europe from the bottom up? how can we accept that spain and france, by acting in this way, are endangering the peace process currently under way in the basque country?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to draw your attention to the case of aurora martin, a french citizen who was arrested in spain and handed over to the spanish authorities, and who is facing a 12-year prison sentence. his crime is that he participated in meetings of the batasuna party in spain, which is illegal in spain but legal in france, where it even has elected members. she is the subject of a european arrest warrant, which has been executed. while the introduction of the european arrest warrant in 2004 was hailed as the first step towards a european area of security and justice, there are now differences in its application that create inequalities between eu nationals. and this is contrary to the very spirit of the framework decision establishing this european arrest warrant. moreover, in cases with important political implications, as in the case of the basque activist, should the european arrest warrant not include wider exceptions and not be issued automatically, in order to better guarantee fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression, which is undermined in the case of aurora martin?
mr president, having an industrial policy is essential, for the member states as well as for the european union, in order to meet the needs of our people. for too long, the official doctrine has been that the market decides who lives and who dies in economic matters. the result is massive destruction of businesses, millions of jobs lost, skills lost, human lives sacrificed on the altar of financial profitability. a reality that impoverishes our people while enriching the rentiers. one thing, however, seems obvious. what is needed by workers and firms in difficulty is not grand speeches but concrete measures to put an end to the unjust law of the market. without a rapid reorientation, without a strong decision to give european industry the means to continue to develop, to simply exist, we are headed for disaster.
mr president, the technologies for accessing the internet are advancing at a remarkable rate. it is now childish to connect to the internet from a computer, mobile phone or tablet, whether at home or in a public place. this widespread access is an opportunity, but also a danger for our children. indeed, the internet can easily become a no-go zone. young users, who spend an average of two hours a day surfing, are often exposed to inappropriate, violent or pornographic images and content, and are easy targets for scams or harassment. the european union has a responsibility in the face of this danger. it must coordinate the member states' screening actions and strike a balance between the protection of children and the safeguarding of fundamental freedoms. it is essential that the union and the member states strengthen both enforcement measures to combat abuse and educational and pedagogical measures to raise awareness among children, parents and educators of the dangers of digital technologies.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad to be here, especially as this is the end of a long and, in some cases, arduous process of adopting two important pieces of legislation from a technical point of view, which also serve to reduce the legislation in force. i am also glad that, as regards the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry vehicles, i made a commitment during my hearing as the commissioner-designate for industry and i am glad that i have kept the commitment i made but also that the measure has been approved by parliament. the long negotiations, as mr panzeri has pointed out, have produced positive results. i want to thank both speakers, but also the shadow speakers: the compromise texts are the result of a series of constructive discussions, including with the commission and the council, which lasted almost two years because, as we said, this is a very complex matter, even from a technical point of view. i would like to stress that the new regulations will substantially improve the environmental and safety performance of all the vehicles we are discussing, to the benefit of citizens and society as a whole, and they also provide sufficient time for industry to adapt production to the new requirements. in addition, the simplification amendments contained in the two legislative texts will enable public administrations and companies to reduce costs: so we've been able to get a number of positive results. the adoption of these two legislative acts represents an important step forward in the simplification envisaged by the better regulation project and also in consolidating the internal market, as was emphasised in the speeches of the two rapporteurs. the two proposed regulations in fact repeal and replace some 40 directives, each of which is accompanied by a number of delegated and implementing acts, on which i have taken note of mr van de camp's request and therefore we will also follow closely the aspect which the rapporteur has stressed. the consistency between the two type-approval schemes has also been improved. i should like to mention some of the main points in the two texts. first, provisions on access to repair and maintenance information have been introduced to ensure a level playing field for the benefit of operators and consumers. secondly, market surveillance requirements have been introduced. thirdly, a consistent classification of the different vehicle categories has been introduced: a special case concerns special purpose vehicles, i.e. off-road and side-by-side vehicles, which may fall within the classifications of both regulations if they are compatible with the relevant definitions and technical requirements. fourthly, the environmental and safety protection of the vehicles concerned has been improved: i shall not go into the details of the individual proposals, because that has already been made very clear by the rapporteurs. these are just a few of the many points which have been discussed and agreed by parliament and the council, with very satisfactory results, i would say. i would like to thank parliament once again for allowing me to keep the commitment i made to you and to the citizens, which i believe is good for the community institutions at a time when there is often a lack of confidence in us. to work well and to keep our promises is also to respond in a concrete way to the messages we receive from many parts of europe.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, if we want to regulate everything at once, we end up making regulation incomprehensible and ineffective. could we believe that quad bikes, electric bikes, mini bikes, sidecars, cross bikes, really belonged to the same category of vehicles? of course not! especially if some of these vehicles are, moreover, used outside the purpose for which they were created. it is therefore particularly relevant to create subcategories. consider just one class of motor vehicles. quads, like mini-bikes or mini-quads, have become in a few years a real scourge of modern times because used by a minority of their pilots outside the dedicated sites, in conditions of characterized insecurity. they have become dangerous to pedestrians, cyclists and animals, and are involved in many environmental degradations. in addition, they are often produced at low cost and do not generally meet the safety requirements for use on public roads. in france, 61% of the victims of accidents caused by quad bikes, mini-bikes or mini-quads are children under the age of 10. these machines are accident-prone by nature. that is why we feel it is essential to legislate as a matter of priority, giving even greater force to the law on safety, on pilot training, on noise emissions, on road conditions, the aim being - everyone understands this - to protect both the drivers who respect the rules and the affected populations. it would also seem to us to be appropriate to define a european concept of enhanced safety and compulsory recycling and, above all, to prohibit all imports which do not comply with this concept.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, for the committee on employment and social affairs this end-of-year meeting is a major event, because in order to achieve a genuine economic and monetary union we must revisit the foundations of this economic and monetary union, which has clearly not withstood the crisis in which we find ourselves. the work of this parliament, under the responsibility of mrs thyssen - whom everyone will thank for the high quality of this work - is intended to clarify and define the position of the european parliament in the run-up to the great european council which is to meet in december. i am therefore surprised that president herman van rompuy, for whom this work is intended, is not here. furthermore, i believe that the result of our vote here will give our sherpas a mandate to represent us in the negotiations leading up to this work. we also believe that this appointment cannot be reduced or underestimated in the light of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. the re-writing of genuine economic and monetary union must remain the priority. in this area, the social question must be asked: we were very struck by the fact that in the document tabled by president herman van rompuy in june, four pillars were defined without ever mentioning the social dimension. but if you look at the maastricht treaty, if you look at the current state of economic and monetary union, you will obviously see that there is an imbalance between the economic policies defined in article 121 and the employment policies defined in article 148. but if you rebuild economic and monetary union on the basis of mr van rompuy's proposals, without taking account of this original balance, you will destabilise the whole system. moreover, this parliament, our committee on employment and social affairs, also attaches great importance to parliamentary control, to democratic control and, therefore, to the possibility for the european parliament to participate in the co-decision procedure in the annual growth review which sets the framework for this european semester. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we want the troika to be successful, we must extend it to include the ilo, which has just denounced the failure of greece to respect the fundamental ilo conventions following the troika's work. a genuine economic and monetary union cannot ignore the very foundations of the european social model.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro area is once again entering a recession. the exit strategy, which was advocated until last june by the council or the commission, has plunged us deeper into the crisis. euroscepticism is gaining ground. in this context, the van rompuy report, which is intended to define the next stage of economic and monetary union, is of particular importance. unfortunately, the council has refused to involve the european parliament fully in the drafting of this road map. the report by our colleague marianne thyssen is therefore an opportunity for parliament to take part in this debate and send a strong message. i welcome the rapporteur's remarkable work, which has shown that constructive spirit, which makes it possible to show our fellow citizens that parliamentary debate has meaning. the point of this debate is to establish the levers that are sorely lacking in the functioning of economic and monetary union. firstly, we need an integrated banking union to control banks, guarantee deposits and resolve crises without making taxpayers pay again. secondly, we need a fiscal union, in which the fiscal seriousness of the member states is matched by support for sustainable development at european level. this union must have a budgetary capacity fed by new own resources, the allocation of which must be discussed within the framework of the community method, the only guarantee of solidarity between the 27 member states. thirdly, we need a genuine democratic seal, otherwise the transfer of sovereignty will continue to be experienced by our fellow citizens as a confiscation of powers by bureaucrats. parliament, the main actor in representative democracy, must therefore be involved at every stage of the european semester. parliament must be involved in the operation of the european stability mechanism. parliament must be able to control the troika, especially when the imf itself admits that it has been gravely mistaken. last but not least, we need a social pillar - the fifth pillar - which guarantees wage standards to prevent structural reforms from causing a downward spiral. a social pillar which prevents budgetary discipline from reducing the quality of public services and social protection. a social pillar that promotes the integration of young people into the labour market and access to housing for all. a social pillar that reassures our fellow citizens, for whom europe is synonymous with saving the banks on the one hand, but worsening the situation of the majority on the other. this is the strong mandate which the european parliament must give to its president on the eve of the november and december council meetings. this message will be all the more clearly heard in the council if it obtains the largest possible majority tomorrow - thanks to you, my dear colleagues.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs thyssen for her work. i think that the european council last june also set the milestones for a better approach. but i wanted to ask you another question today: do you know how eurosceptics are made? we make eurosceptics by announcing things we never do. the european parliament has been making eurosceptics by telling citizens for the last 20 years about a common foreign policy which does not exist. they were told about the most competitive zone in the world in 2010, which they didn't see coming. and now, do you know what you will do at the european council next thursday if you take a decision which ignores a vote in the european parliament? in that case, as far as the ecb is concerned, and by giving the ecb an image which is not the one we want to see europe given to the world, you will risk completely discrediting all your nonsense about strengthening democracy. so we shall see on thursday evening whether the european council respects democracy or whether everything we do here is of no interest at all.
madam president, i regret that the agenda has been changed, since we are receiving the president of the republic of haiti today in a solemn session. i would remind you that europe is the world's largest aid donor and that the least we could do is to receive the president of the republic of haiti in a courteous manner. i am very sorry that you have changed the agenda.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which makes it possible to strengthen the judicial systems for businesses and consumers. the question of jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments between member states is a key issue in the context of the single market. this text will, in particular, allow that in the event of a legal dispute between a consumer and an undertaking, the consumer can always choose to go to a court in the member state in which he is domiciled. this is possible under the principle of protecting the weakest party.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. this report is a proposal for a recast of the brussels i regulation in favour of the european consumer. this reform is a real change in the legal framework of our single market: from now on, a consumer will be able to sue a seller or company outside the eu in his home country. moreover, any judicial decision recognised in one member state will be automatically recognised in all the other member states.
in writing. the single market also requires the proper implementation of court decisions throughout the european territory. the text will, above all, protect consumers better and enable them to enforce their rights more effectively. it is with this objective in mind that i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, which will make it possible to continue the development of a genuine european area of justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens consumer protection by granting them additional rights in the event of a legal dispute with a company, particularly if the latter is based outside the eu. the european union must implement increased protection for its citizens by extending the recognition of judicial decisions in all member states.
in writing. like a large majority of members of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to reduce the general public's access to high-risk chemicals that can easily be diverted to the artisanal manufacture of explosives. the aim here is to strengthen traceability and thus make the work of the member states in the fight against terrorism more effective.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. this report is part of the european union's strategy to combat terrorism. it highlights harmonised rules on the making available on the market of substances or mixtures which may be used in an indirect manner for the illicit manufacture of explosives, in order to limit their availability to the general public. i also support the decision to ban the sale of certain chemicals to the general public at certain concentration levels. however, exceptional access will be subject to the presentation of an authorization, embodied in a purchase licence. in addition, the report shall ensure that the processing of personal data required for the granting of a licence complies with directive 95/46/ec.
in writing. i voted for the mulder report on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. in line with the european strategy to combat terrorism, i believe it is necessary to reduce the general public's access to high-risk chemicals that can easily be misused. i welcome the idea of improving controls to prevent 'suspicious transactions'.
in writing. this prevention measure improves controls on certain chemicals that can be used as precursors to explosives. this refers mainly to the artisanal manufacture of explosives, which has been used in recent terrorist attacks, including the july 2011 attack in norway. i particularly support the emphasis on the fair distribution of costs between all actors: this measure concerns our security, but it must not unduly burden our businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows the public to restrict access to certain specific substances which are in common use but which can be used in a roundabout way as precursors to explosives. the european union must prevent any terrorist act within its borders. this requires more cooperation between member states. the security of citizens in the face of terrorist threats must therefore be guaranteed by strengthened legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, which seems to me to be fairly balanced: it aims to strengthen public security while disrupting as little as possible the proper functioning of the internal market. this is a sensitive subject, especially since many seemingly harmless products are used in the manufacture of homemade bombs that cause bombings. i supported parliament's position on this matter, in particular the fact that buyers could obtain a purchase licence for explosives precursors, or the strengthening of control through sales since sellers would now be required to report any 'suspicious transaction'. i am also in favour of mandatory labelling for professionals who wish to make explosives precursors available to the general public, by clearly indicating on the product that there are restrictions on its acquisition, possession and use.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to allow specific recruitment of croatian nationals in the european institutions. this report merely applies the principle of representativeness in the european union, as croatia will join in 2013. this process was also put in place for the previous enlargements of 2004 and 2007.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on special and temporary measures concerning the recruitment of officials and temporary staff of the european union. on the eve of croatia's accession, the regulation on the general rules for the recruitment of officials and other servants of the european union needs to be temporarily amended so that recruitment is open to croatian nationals. i support the amendment of these conditions of access as a matter of urgency, especially for linguists, as croatian is on the way to becoming one of the official languages of the union.
in writing. this report, for which i voted, sets out the obligations for the member states concerned (including france) to take all necessary measures to protect the mediterranean sea. this includes limiting as far as possible the levels of pollution of the seabed, the continental shelf and its subsoil in the context of resource exploitation operations that could be implemented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea bed and its subsoil. i believe that the ratification of the protocol is a major step forward in international cooperation to improve the safety of marine installations and to strengthen the response capacity in the mediterranean.
in writing. the mediterranean sea is particularly vulnerable to pollution. we must therefore pay particular attention to them, and this means that there are stronger requirements for the prevention and repair of accidents that occur there. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which will enable the union to conclude an important protocol to the barcelona convention. it will form the basis for better international cooperation to enhance the safety of offshore installations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of this protocol, which aims to ensure greater safety of activities in the mediterranean sea and to strengthen the protection of the mediterranean ecosystem. i also think it is important to improve coordination between the mediterranean countries in order to increase our responsiveness, since we still too often find that borders are not sufficient barriers to stop pollution.
in writing. i welcome the approval of the european union's accession to the offshore protocol. this demonstrates the need for increased security and sustainable governance of oil and gas activities in the mediterranean. the barcelona convention mechanism complements the commitments made by the union under the european neighbourhood policy and the union for the mediterranean through the flagship initiative for the clean-up of the mediterranean called horizon 2020. in addition to the 'sensitive areas' investment programme for the mediterranean, supported by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, other eu programmes are worth mentioning: capacity building of environmental authorities, environmental information sharing systems, sustainable water management, urban development cooperation and dialogue and various other research projects. it is important that the next multiannual financial framework 2014/2020 sustains the european union's support for the clean-up of the mediterranean. the fight against pollution by plastic waste, which is poisoning marine ecosystems, should be a priority.
in writing. the mediterranean is one of the areas of our ecosystem that should be preserved and where the most stringent regulations on the non-discharge of hydrocarbons by ships apply. the development of oil exploration and exploitation, in particular, represents a serious danger to this ecosystem, which is already very fragile due to its closed sea situation and numerous sources of pollution. this 'offshore' protocol does not prohibit the development of offshore platforms, but it does allow for better control of them and, therefore, to limit their consequences. i think this protocol is still insufficient but it is a step forward which i support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european union's accession to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea, as it will provide a better framework for activities related to the exploitation of fuel reserves in the mediterranean sea. it advocates enhanced cooperation and coordination at regional level, which are the solutions for sustainable governance and effective environmental protection, even as offshore activities are expected to grow strongly in the coming years. this accession is also a further step in the process of bringing the two sides of the mediterranean closer together, something i am committed to and working for as a member of the european parliament. i can therefore only welcome the entry into force of this protocol in the near future.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the accession of the union to the 'offshore' protocol. this protocol is one of the protocols of the 1976 barcelona convention. it covers a wide range of exploration and exploitation activities, as well as requirements for permitting, liability and damage compensation, and the removal of abandoned facilities and harmful substances. adopted in 1994, when the environment was being addressed differently, this protocol may have shortcomings in defining a sustainable management system for activities at sea. however, a policy for sustainable governance of offshore oil and gas activities is essential. it is clear that the transfrontier consequences of an accident in the mediterranean would not be confined to the member states of the union. it is therefore important that the union encourages international cooperation to enhance the safety of marine installations and to strengthen the response capacities of all stakeholders. pending the regulation on the security of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, currently under discussion, ratification of this protocol is a step in the right direction.
in writing. adopted by a large majority in the european parliament, this protocol governs relations between the european union and greenland in the fisheries sector. i supported this fair and balanced text, as it takes account in particular of the sustainable fisheries objectives of the european union's environmental policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part. the purpose of this report is to renew the previous partnership agreement, which expires at the end of 2012, with a view to extending it to 1 january 2013. i support this protocol which provides for the granting of fishing opportunities by greenland to european shipowners for the period from 2013 to 2015 for a whole range of fish species.
in writing. the objectives of this new protocol give priority to the protection of the environment through the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. it ensures that scientific advice is followed. the interests of greenland's fisheries are guaranteed. the same applies to the fishermen of the union. i vote for it.
in writing. technical report, this text was largely supported by my colleagues in the house and myself. it aims to simplify and strengthen the conditions for eligibility in european elections for eu citizens residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. this rapid adoption by the european parliament should allow for implementation for the next elections in 2014 if the council supports it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the right of eu citizens residing in a member state of which they are not nationals to stand as candidates in european elections. i support this modest progress and hope that these administrative changes will be implemented for the 2014 european elections.
in writing. i voted for the casini report on the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in european elections. i think it is important to correct certain problems associated with double voting and double candidacy. the new proposal does not meet parliament's ambitious objectives, but it does bring improvements to the present situation in terms of administrative convenience.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to allow the council to adopt this act quickly and to provide as soon as possible for information to be given to citizens of the union residing in a member state of the european union of which they are not a member on the eligibility rules for the next european elections in 2014. it is true that this text allows for some improvements in terms of administrative convenience for the potential candidate and the states concerned. i regret, however, that the council has still not been able to reach agreement on the voting rights of these same nationals and considers it necessary to examine the possibility of allowing candidates to stand in more than one constituency in the same european parliament election, irrespective of residence qualifications, which is also provided for in the 1976 act but is not, in practice, regulated in secondary union law or even in national law.
in writing. in the afco committee, of which i am vice-chairman, the council of the european union consulted us on the text amending the 1993 directive on the right to stand as a candidate and to vote in elections to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the aim was to take account of certain dysfunctions linked to double voting and double candidacy. we approved this proposal because it contains modest but sensible reforms and we want them to be implemented before the 2014 elections. this is an improvement because it reduces bureaucracy for candidates who want to run in their state of residence, which is not necessarily their home state.
in writing. this report facilitates the possibility for any european citizen to vote and stand in european elections, regardless of the member state in which he resides. it is a significant step forward in this respect. i vote for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the directive on the right of citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals to stand for election to the european parliament. the original intention of parliament was to allow candidates to run in more than one constituency in the same election. this is permitted by the direct elections act 1976, but is not regulated in practice. because of the disagreements in the council, no action has been taken on the european elections so far. the council has chosen to limit itself to relieving some of the burden on the national authorities. in concrete terms, it is a question of whether someone has been prevented from running as a candidate in his own state. we are therefore far from the ambitious objectives of this parliament. there are only a few modest improvements to the current situation in terms of administrative convenience for the potential candidate in particular. but in a legislative co-decision process, it was not possible to get more from the council, if we wanted some improvements in the next european elections in 2014.
in writing. this text, which i supported, was adopted by the european parliament with the aim of strengthening the protection of european consumers in consumer credit agreements. it takes stock of the situation two years after the adoption of the directive in order to report on the successes and failures of the member states. the report concludes that there is no need to amend the directive but that access to information for consumers should be facilitated, particularly with regard to cross-border credit involving different currencies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2008/48/ec on credit agreements for consumers. this report gives an account of the first two years of application of the directive by the member states and highlights the progress made and the delays in its application. the main aim of the directive was to facilitate crossborder credit by reducing differences between national laws. however, we need to be more vigilant about the information available to european citizens, in particular about the risks associated with loans in foreign currencies for the consumer who opts for cross-border credit and about the cost of insurance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens consumer protection against advertising abuse and omissions in the information provided by certain credit agencies. the new credit directive will make it easier for consumers to access information. we still hear too often the stories of families who are saddled with debt because of naivety but also because of a lack of awareness of the real commitment sometimes hidden when taking out a loan. consumer credit must respond to the immediate financing needs of our citizens, but credit companies must be transparent with their customers to avoid them being dragged into a vicious circle.
in writing. this is a logical consequence of the single market: citizens can take out loans in a country other than the one in which they reside. the very fact of this possibility should make a member of the european parliament feel concerned about the protection of a consumer who has taken advantage of the opportunity but is confronted with practices which are similar to those in his own country, but which are nevertheless peculiar and foreign. problem: crossborder loans are marginal because they are hampered by language problems and lack of direct contacts with the lender. yeah, that's common sense. consumers, who often rank bankers, along with insurers and mobile phone service providers in the top three of scammers and thieves, are frankly not enthusiastic about doing business with a representative who does not speak their language and is not clearer about the terms that annoy them. in this context, the commission's willingness to allow practices that are of no interest to anyone seems dogmatic. it's ignoring people's common sense in favor of a utopia. that is why i abstained, in the name of defending, despite everything, the consumers you claim to protect.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on consumer credit agreements, which aims to assess and take stock of the directive transposed since 2010. the objective of the single market has enabled consumers to access crossborder credit. the aim of this directive is to harmonise the arrangements for contracts with a value of between eur 200 and eur 75 000. the success of this practice is however not without its drawbacks, as the european commission found that 70% of the websites of the financial institutions monitored omitted essential information in their advertising and in their credit offers, as well as information on the costs of ancillary services such as insurance accompanying the credit application. the report also warns against the expansion of sms loans, which are micro-loans granted via the internet or sms, to which member states should pay particular attention.
in writing. this report advocates the competition of consumer credit agencies within the european union. it draws no conclusion from the finding that such bodies do not comply with the obligations to provide clear information to citizens imposed on them and that they are driving them into over-indebtedness. he's just offering to give them more control. worse, it compares it with other financial products and welcomes their opening to competition. i am voting against this inept text.
in writing. widely adopted by the european parliament, this report, which i supported, paints a picture of the social situation in the european union. it is a real call for coordination in the field of social investment. as rapporteur on the social entrepreneurship issue, i followed this vote with interest and welcome the result.
in writing. this report, adopted by a single vote, did not make the front page of today's debate, but it does emphasise fundamental issues: investment in human capital as an essential condition for preparing the future of our european societies. partly due to a lack of investment in education and training, there is a persistent gap between skills and labour market needs and high structural unemployment. youth must be at the heart of social investment strategies. the aim is to respond to the various social risks and unmet needs. social entrepreneurship is an essential component of social investment; the report is therefore to be read in conjunction with the report we adopted on the promotion of enterprise and social innovation. reconciling economic and social objectives, building 'activating welfare states' and promoting policies that favour growth and employment is the way forward in overcoming the current crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the jazlowiecka report. i am convinced that in this time of crisis, the social, employment and education objectives of the europe 2020 strategy need to be pursued more than ever. alongside sound public finances, i believe that well-targeted social investment is needed to achieve sustainable growth again. that is why i support the conclusion of a social investment pact.
in writing. we must have clear objectives in social, employment and education, as these will be the foundation of our future growth. europe still has some way to go in this area, and this report lays a clear foundation for renewed ambition in the face of the crisis and the changes in the labour market. i voted for this report because it takes a balanced position between the short-term requirements for responding to the crisis and the long-term challenges for sustainably modernising our social model.
in writing. it is clear that austerity measures are not enough to end the economic crisis we are experiencing, which is why we need an investment strategy. that is the message of this report, and i have given it my full support. we need a social investment pact, alongside the competitiveness pact, which sets out real priorities in terms of social governance, mainly to combat youth unemployment and create sustainable and quality jobs. the pact should be an opportunity to show the people who are suffering more and more from the crisis and have to bear the costs of the austerity measures adopted throughout europe that a better future is on the horizon thanks to public policies of social investment.
in writing. this report takes a disastrous look at the lisbon strategy and the austerity measures applied in the european union. it is not, however, drawing any conclusions from this and approves the austerity measures on the pretext that they would constitute "necessary efforts". the central idea of the social investment pact, which was a priori interesting, is immediately invalidated by the discounted objective proposed for such investments ('responding to emerging social risks and unmet needs') and by the fact that the text considers public-private partnerships to be a social investment. this text about the seductive is another fraud. i vote against it.
in writing. the current economic and financial crisis has a negative impact on growth but also on employment, poverty levels and social exclusion. in particular, the unemployment rate in europe rose from 7.1% in 2008 to over 10% in january 2012; in 2011, the poverty rate for people aged 16 to 24 was 21.6% on average. i supported this resolution on the social investment pact because it underlines the fact that the crisis requires a modernisation of the european social model and a new approach to national social policies. it proposes concrete measures to respond to this, such as the creation of a european social label, and sets clear guidelines for the member states.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i wanted to support the european initiative to increase the visibility of and access to information for european citizens about agricultural products. it is crucial to make the working population aware of the production and distribution methods of these agricultural products. the agricultural sector has great potential for growth, particularly in rural areas, and it should be given our full support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and information of agricultural products. the cap is currently implementing a wide range of measures to promote the consumption of agricultural products. i therefore support the development of a modernised framework better adapted, in particular to external markets, which would increase the outlets for european agricultural products and thus contribute to the preservation of jobs in the primary sector.
in writing. the cap is currently implementing a range of measures to promote the consumption of agricultural products. i am convinced that a modernised and better adapted framework would increase the opportunities for european producers and thus contribute to growth and employment in the union. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and information of agricultural products.
in writing. europe has a reputation for agriculture: consumers can be proud of the quality of their food. our geographical origins are a sure asset, one which the world envies: we must bet on them inside and outside our borders, for stronger growth, for the spread of our flavours and a protected environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will allow for a better valorisation of european agricultural products. the european union must support the agricultural sector, which remains an important economic actor in the economy of our territories. in addition, beyond these economic considerations, it is now essential to promote the production of our farmers who undoubtedly contribute to the promotion of our land throughout the world and contribute to the preservation of noble traditions.
in writing. europe, with its diverse landscapes and cultures, has the opportunity to offer a variety of high-quality agricultural products. the cap offers instruments for the promotion and information of these agricultural products, which must be developed and adapted to demand while taking better account of the constraints on our farmers. this is the whole point of the report by josé bové, which my group adopted on tuesday, 20 november, with a large number of amendments. the rules on food safety and health, environmental conditions and animal welfare are much stricter in europe than in the rest of the world. these are the conditions needed to meet the concerns of consumers alarmed by the mad cow and e. coli crisis. but the trade-off for such constraints is the assurance of offering quality products that should be better promoted in europe and the rest of the world, especially in emerging markets. we have a unique agricultural heritage in europe because of the variety and quality of the products it offers. it is up to us to increase the world's markets in order to contribute to the growth of the agricultural sector.
in writing. the promotion of european agricultural products, both of a high diversity and quality, is essential to ensure the competitiveness and long-term sustainability of the sector. however, only 0,1% of the cap budget was spent on the promotion of these products in 2012. this resolution calls for an ambitious european policy in this area, and i support it. i welcome the emphasis on local and regional markets in the text, which states that a promotion policy should focus on the diversity and freshness of products and the proximity between producers and consumers. as regards external markets, i support the idea that we must make the most of the high demands placed on our producers in order to increase the market outlets for their products. in addition, european wine consumption is steadily declining, without any internal promotion measures for this product. given the importance of the wine sector in my constituency, i am pleased that the text raises the idea of information campaigns for the adult population on responsible consumption of quality european wines, highlighting the qualitative properties and characteristics of european wines.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the promotion of agricultural products, which aims to draw attention to the authentic, varied and high-quality 'tastes of europe' for the consumer. if, historically, agricultural promotion measures were introduced to deal with agricultural surpluses and then food crises, it is now time to define a policy in this area that encourages quality products, as well as more co2-saving practices that protect biodiversity and are better suited to soil protection. to this end, a clear definition of the objectives of the promotion policy for agricultural products is a necessary first step and cannot be separated from a significant increase in the budget devoted to it. the development of short supply chains is indeed needed to economically stimulate and socially requalify rural life, or to show schoolchildren, through educational actions, how food is produced and what life is like in rural areas. the european union should also strive to export a sustainable model of agriculture and the products derived from it. just need to put the good talk into practice.
in writing. while we hear about relocations all the time, we have an example in the food chain that proves that the eu is still a production land. the food industry is the largest employer in europe, with 4.2 million workers and a turnover of €1 trillion per year. if this sector is now profitable and creating jobs, it is thanks to the cap and its quality products, which allow the eu to be the second largest exporter of agricultural products. but we must not rest on our laurels and ensure our leading position in the international market. this is precisely the point of this report, which i supported, and which proposes to highlight our assets by means of an appealing, ambitious and targeted promotion policy. i am thinking of our quality labels, european cuisine, environmental and health standards in production. what may have initially appeared as constraints for the sector has become one of the selling points, which strengthen our position in the global market, where consumers are increasingly looking for quality and authenticity.
in writing. this excellent report, which has the support of the european parliament, gives a snapshot of the state of play in the art sector. this growing field (particularly in china) has been regulated at european level by a directive since 2001. the text stresses the importance of fair remuneration for authors and the need to review the appropriateness of applicable rates and thresholds. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 'right of way' directive. i believe it is essential to guarantee authors of graphic and visual art a financial share in the success of their original works and to rapidly harmonise the application of copyright in the european union.
in writing. this report, which i supported and which was adopted by the european parliament, is a procedural act designed to simplify the ordinary legislative procedure. it is important that these rules of procedure are adapted so that the european parliament can become more efficient without compromising the transparency of its work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of article 70 of the regulation on interinstitutional negotiations in legislative procedures. it is important to make procedures both more transparent, more efficient and more participatory, as advised by the conference of presidents in october 2012. in this sense, i support the introduction of a new article 70a on the approval of a decision to open interinstitutional negotiations before the adoption of a report by the committee on budgets.
in writing. it is true that the rapporteur's proposals and certain amendments seem to democratize and clarify a number of current legislative practices. but the root of the problem is that the adoption of vital legislative reports is now done in small committees. the rapporteur is appointed, which is logical. but now there are also fictitious rapporteurs (one per group) who pre-empt the work of the parliament's ad hoc committee. in the most serious cases, a handful of people are appointed from the outset to negotiate with the council and the commission, without representing political sensitivities, in order to reach a compromise adopted at first reading as soon as possible. the result is that, with or without debate in plenary, we are now adopting more and more reports which are actually adopted by a tiny minority of our technical colleagues. european laws are actually decided by five or six quidams who are supposed to have the expertise. the powerful technocratic commission at the centre, 27 member states, the majority of which are weak, a few members invested with the divine light of the other, that is what constitutes the legislative power of the european union. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the guerrero salom report on interinstitutional negotiations in legislative procedures. the amendment is to amend the parliament's rules of procedure, in particular with regard to the internal working methods of our institution. this text is nevertheless important for our citizens because it improves the transparency of the negotiations before a compromise between the three institutions. in order for the text adopted by meps to be representative of the positions in parliament, we had to change our rules of procedure and make our procedures more transparent, more efficient and more participatory.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to inform all meps in their own language when negotiations are opened between a delegation from parliament and other european institutions, and to have the delegation's mandate approved by the plenary. i regret that the obligation to provide information in all languages does not apply to the minutes of the negotiations which the delegation will have to make before its parliamentary committee. this type of information should be easily accessible in their own language to all members of the european parliament. we work on and vote on all the reports that are passed in plenary and not just those that are passed in the committees of which we are members. we must therefore be able to obtain information easily and in our own language about all the work of parliament. there is an urgent need to redirect parliament's investments in this direction.
in writing. the text i supported aims to streamline the translation process within our institution. translation plays a key role in european democracy by making the work of parliamentarians accessible to all citizens. however, in order to save money and given the availability of video recordings of the debates translated into all the official languages of the european union, the debates will no longer be translated into written form. the content will remain accessible on the internet, at anytime and in all the working languages of the european union, through the live translated videos of the debates. modern technology has thus saved money.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of rules 181 and 182 concerning the in extenso report of the debate and the audio-visual recording of the debate. as part of the implementation of the 2013 budget's cost-saving measures and given the size of the budget allocated to translation in the european institutions, we need to make translation savings without jeopardising multilingualism. the minutes will therefore now reflect the speeches of members only in their original language.
in writing. in these times of budgetary discipline, the european parliament is setting an example. i voted for a sensible measure: to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament so as to stop translating the minutes in extenso of plenary sessions, but without jeopardizing multilingualism. this translation was far too expensive. this will save nearly €8.6 million a year. however, all languages will remain represented in the final report, and those who wish to follow the discussions can continue to watch the videos on the internet, where they will have real-time interpretation in their own language.
in writing. i voted against this report. the aim here is to make a very small saving in the translation of the debates in their entirety into all the official languages of the european union. the so-called in extenso report will be available in writing only in the languages in which the speeches were delivered. those who would like to have access to the whole debate in their own language are asked to refer to the video broadcast, accompanied by translations which are clearly stated to be unreliable because they are simultaneous and therefore subject to human error. the catch is that they can do this if they are able to find themselves on the parliament's website, which is not within the reach of the first citizen to come as the website of this institution is complex, not intuitive and not user-friendly. either way, this access is limited in time. in short. the policy of transparency and openness that you boast about is an absolute hypocrisy.
in writing. we adopted a report for which i was the fictitious rapporteur for the epp in the afco committee. the report concerns the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure as regards rule 181, the in extenso report and rule 182 on the audiovisual recording of debates. in view of the tight budgetary context, the european parliament also wanted to make an effort by adopting savings measures for the 2012 budget. the bureau and the committee on budgets reached an agreement on 26 september 2011 that the systematic translation of the in extenso minutes of our plenary debates into all languages should be stopped. however, the same agreement provided for the retention of an in extenso english translation for convenience. i considered that translating the reports into one language, english, would create a hierarchy in the official languages of the union and would call multilingualism into question. i therefore wanted to propose that the minutes should reproduce the speeches of members in their original language and that the single translation into english should be deleted. and this too, by pushing the logic of translation savings to the limit. the majority of afco, and then the whole parliament, followed suit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ilchev report on the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure concerning rule 181 on the in extenso report and rule 182 on the audio-visual recording of debates. with this report parliament is introducing significant cost reductions in the field of translation, since the in extenso reports which reproduce the speeches of members in their original language will no longer be translated into the other languages.
in writing. under the pretext of budgetary savings, this report makes translations of plenary speeches compulsory only if a member of the european parliament requests them! the fact that we are saving money on the translation work of members of parliament is absolutely shameful. with such a system, no research on the speeches of meps is possible, neither for parliamentarians nor for european citizens! we are referred to the video of the oral speeches (so nothing for the written speeches) and their unofficial translation. these are not working methods! parliamentary assistants must now listen to and transcribe speeches and citizens must guess where the videos are hidden to access information! i denounce this harmful report and call on my colleagues to reconsider their priorities in terms of budgetary savings.
in writing. the text, which was widely adopted by the european parliament, aims to reform the rules on two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. one of the key points is the mandatory introduction of affordable advanced braking systems (anti-lock braking system (abs) or combined braking system (cbs)) on all new motorcycles.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. i support this report, which aims to simplify the current legal framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements, particularly in the areas of safety and the environment.
in writing. thanks to the adoption of this report, motorcycles will now be safer and cleaner. technology is advancing rapidly, and every day it is making the road safer. we adapt the rules to take account of these developments, and make the most of them. this text will make motorcycles safer thanks to abs and better monitored to reduce accidents.
in writing. within the european union, 16% of road deaths are two-wheelers, while they account for only 2% of road traffic. this statistic is unbearable. reducing it requires both improving the safety of motorcycles and related vehicles and of road infrastructure. from anti-lock brakes for cylinders over 125 cc to automatic lighting, the proposals are moving in the right direction. but the development of road areas deserves the attention of this parliament as well. we know the dangers of certain infrastructures such as slippery white stripes and sharp safety slides. these are matters that merit further consideration. finally, road safety prevention must be strengthened. we must think of a real culture of prevention and of probably more frequent awareness campaigns. in this connection, i would point out that the long-running awareness raising campaigns against domestic accidents have proved effective. they should inspire us.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves transparency and access to information for users of the two and three-wheel vehicle market. the new safety and environmental measures will benefit all european citizens, as reductions in accidents and co2 emissions are expected to be achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important that we have safer and greener motorcycles. vehicles such as mopeds, scooters, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles and quads number 30 million in the eu. they account for only 2% of traffic, yet they account for 16% of fatal accidents on european roads. we cannot leave the users of these vehicles in such a dangerous situation. it is therefore necessary that these vehicles meet very stringent safety and emission standards. the aim is to make motorcycles and similar vehicles safer, for example by including more brake assist systems (abs or cbs), and more environmentally friendly (harmonisation with european standards). the automatic lighting of headlamps will also be encouraged, although this will be left to the discretion of the member states. the text will also benefit manufacturers, who will benefit from a new regulation replacing the 15 existing directives. this should simplify their market and give them more visibility and prospects.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by a large majority on tuesday 20 november of the report on the approval and monitoring of the two- and three-wheel and quadricycle market, which represents 30 million vehicles on the road in the european union. these vehicles account for 16% of fatal accidents on europe's roads, although they account for only 2% of road traffic. new administrative and technical rules were therefore needed to ensure that these vehicles are better protected and reduce their emissions. the main points i would like to make about this proposal are the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems (abs) and combined braking systems (cbs), automatically-ignited headlamps to make these vehicles more visible and the strengthening of sanctions against individuals who, by illegal manipulations, increase the maximum speed of their vehicle and therefore constitute a danger to the safety of other road users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheelers and quadricycles to make two-wheelers safer and greener. these vehicles represent only 2% of road traffic but are involved in 16% of fatal accidents in europe. from 2016, anti-lock braking systems and combined braking systems will be installed on motorcycles and scooters.
in writing. two- and three-wheel vehicles are involved in 16% of fatal accidents on european roads, although they account for only 2% of road traffic. in addition, these vehicles emit disproportionately large amounts of air pollutants. the rules in force must be revised to make these vehicles both safer and less polluting, and i welcome the adoption of this text by parliament. from 2016, the most powerful motorcycles (above 125cc) will have to be equipped with anti-lock braking systems (abs), and the least powerful (below 125cc) will have to be equipped with at least combined braking systems (cbs). in addition, to improve the visibility of motorcycles and drivers, automatic headlamp lighting will be introduced when the engine is started. the text also increases the requirements for compliance with the emission standards of these vehicles: these requirements will increase gradually and will reach the euro 5 standard in 2020. the text also provides for the introduction of increasingly advanced on-board diagnostic (obd) systems, which will enable vehicle malfunctions to be detected and repairs to be carried out quickly when necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new type-approval rules for two- and three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, as they should ultimately provide a safety boost for two-wheelers, who are very vulnerable, since they account for one sixth of all deaths for only 2% of the distance travelled on european roads. the abs will now be compulsory for motorcycles over 125 cc, and the additional cost should be largely limited by the generalization of this equipment, as was the case in the automobile. in addition, new pollution standards will be applied gradually between 2016 and 2020. finally, the entry into force of this regulation in 2016 will see the end of the 100 hp bridging of french motorcycles, which had never really proven its effectiveness in road safety and which could pose problems of insurance coverage, in the case of an unbridged vehicle purchased abroad for example.
in writing. adopted by a large majority, this text, which i supported, aims to establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural or forestry tractors (tractors, trailers and tracked vehicles). these measures will make it possible to increase the security of these machines and to increase the access of the member states to information.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the approval of agricultural and forestry tractors. i support the initiative taken in this report to simplify legislation in this area by replacing the 24 basic directives with a single regulation of the european parliament and the council. the harmonisation of the rules on the manufacture of agricultural or forestry tractors ensures a high level of protection and avoids the fragmentation of the internal market as regards the standards for such vehicles.
in writing. the adoption of this text makes the tractor market safer and more competitive. the current legislation governing them is far too cumbersome and obscure, and i therefore support this text, because it simplifies the legislation and lighten the administrative burden on manufacturers, and makes it easier for repairers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which harmonises the legislation in force in the union concerning the manufacture of agricultural or forestry tractors. it seems to me that it is essential to improve the safety of users by making these vehicles safer and more environmentally friendly.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural or forestry tractors (tractors, trailers and tracked vehicles). it simplifies the legislation considerably by replacing the 24 basic directives with a single regulation, which takes over the requirements laid down in the current legislation without reducing the existing level of protection. the text encourages the introduction of new technologies such as abs (anti-lock braking system), which are now available and can lead to significantly safer vehicles. studies have shown that if these technologies become the standard for new vehicles, the progress would be considerable. the definition of common binding rules would also avoid the fragmentation of the internal market which would result from the existence of different standards in the member states. even though these vehicles represent only a small proportion of european vehicles, they must not be forgotten by european legislation because they can be very dangerous.
in writing. the european union is often the subject of criticism, particularly in relation to the proliferation of regulations which weaken the readability of its action in the eyes of citizens. i therefore welcome the adoption of the regulation on the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry tractors, which considerably simplifies the existing legislation by repealing the 24 basic and 35 amending directives in favour of a single regulation. the new regulation, which has just been approved by the european parliament, will establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry tractors (tractors, trailers and tracked vehicles) while ensuring a high level of road safety through the introduction of new technologies such as anti-lock braking (abs), occupational safety and environmental protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry tractors, which aims to establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural or forestry tractors. the regulation is useful in that it simplifies legislation by replacing 24 directives. these provisions will improve safety and the environment through harmonisation of rules at eu level.
in writing. this report, which i supported, is the european parliament's response to the european commission's green paper on card, internet and mobile payments. it's a growing industry. it is necessary to give it a framework without hindering its development. we also call for the development of global standards, not just european ones.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on card, internet and mobile payments in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. thanks to the single market, you can now travel and shop anywhere in europe. however, as europeans are well aware, it is not always possible to buy things the way we would like. our cards, our internet purchases and, increasingly, our mobile phone purchases are still too often constrained by techniques and measures which impede the common market. it is to put an end to this incoherence that i voted in favour of this report. i am committed to this subject: i have in particular stressed during the drafting of this text the importance of taking better account of all the actors involved, and the paramount aspect of payment security for users. i will continue to work for consumers, traders and businesses.
in writing. harmonising european rules on credit card payments will make life easier for european citizens, who are increasingly mobile and increasingly use card payments over the internet. payments by credit card, internet or telephone will now be more secure and cheaper. currently, the fees for processing card payments are often too high. by making costs more transparent, operators will thus be encouraged to compare the invoiced cost with the actual cost. the establishment of a single card payment system modelled on the single euro payments area (sepa) is a step forward, as this mechanism has proven its effectiveness in improving cross-border bank transfers throughout the territory of the states parties. citizens will now be able to make payments in one country from an account in another. finally, the commission will need to establish clear and objective rules so that certain file hosting sites or services are not excluded from online payment without justification.
in writing. in view of the explosion in internet and mobile payments, the european commission has considered it necessary to draw up an overview of payment methods in europe in order to identify gaps between the current situation and the prospects for an integrated payments market. it is estimated that several million businesses and hundreds of millions of citizens are affected by these payment methods. in 2009, 58 billion retail payment transactions were carried out in the euro area alone. it is therefore important that the european institutions, whose task it is to anticipate and prevent obstacles, have decided to look into this issue and to propose measures to create the conditions for an integrated market for card, internet and mobile payments. all measures and regulations which can facilitate information and remove barriers for consumers must be supported. that is why i welcome the fact that the european parliament has spoken on this subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on 'payment by card, internet and mobile phone'. while payments take many forms that diversify with technological advances and make it easier for citizens to access various goods through distance purchasing, there is still room for improvement. there are weaknesses identified by consumers which are not acceptable, such as the fact that certain crossborder transactions are not accepted because of their origin. the costs involved are not sufficiently transparent and one can wonder about the excessive fees charged for cash withdrawals at atms outside the bank. the development of the digital economy must therefore be accompanied by transparent, secure and efficient payment systems to facilitate cross-border trade. the diversity of payment instruments and the creation of innovative payment methods should not compromise the security of payments. security standards for internet payments should be improved to ensure secure conditions for transactions.
in writing. with my support and the broad support of the european parliament, this text is the continuation of the banking decisions taken at the g20 following the 2008 crisis. although the european union is ahead in this implementation, several areas are still lagging behind, notably the shadow banking system (evading, hidden accounts, etc.) and this text is the first step towards their inclusion in a more transparent system.
in writing. five years after the financial crisis, european citizens are still waiting for the conclusions and lessons to be drawn from the legislation that would put an end to the most questionable practices in the financial economy. it is not only clear that lessons have not been learned and that we are still exposed to terrible financial shocks, but that practices have also been widely developed. this is particularly the case for shadow banking. the black hole of international finance, the billions of euros that are pouring into it are totally out of control. it's incomprehensible and irresponsible. the european parliament is therefore right to point the finger at this nonsense and must continue its work to move forward on this fundamental subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the shadow banking system. today, the shadow banking system represents 30% of the entire financial system, and in 2011, it had brought in over 50 trillion euros in 2011. the parallel banking system is the non-bank credit activities, whose benefits and risks need to be balanced. the report aims to increase prudential oversight to reduce the systemic risks posed by this system. i support the two major measures advocated in this report, namely the application of a capital regime to unregulated entities and the strengthening of the collection of data on transactions in this sector.
in writing. the shadow banking system is almost a third of our financial system, and almost half of the assets of banks. yes, it has played a sometimes harmful role in the outbreak and development of the crisis we are experiencing. for this reason, it is essential to provide better guidance. i voted for this because it takes a threat-proportionate approach: where its activities are potentially dangerous, the shadow banking sector must be regulated. where they are useful and complementary to the ordinary banking sector, they must not be impeded. the commission must now develop an arsenal suited to these challenges.
in writing. the parallel banking , which includes the intermediary credit activities of insurance companies and the activities of most hedge funds , is a booming market. it now represents 30% of the global financial system, or nearly $67 trillion. in a period of shrinking bank lending, this system of credit distribution deserves our full attention. while the european union benefits from the positive effects of this sector, it must also guard against the risks of drift inherent in this type of activity, particularly because the latter mainly contribute to the financing of risky projects via short-term loans, a potential source of destabilisation. the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007 and the financial crisis that immediately followed are arguments in this direction. there is therefore a need for an adequate legal framework, with transparent regulation and supervision, to safely ensure the recovery of our economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens controls on non-bank credit to avoid the kind of abuses we have experienced in the past and which are one of the causes of the current economic crisis. a stricter and more harmonised banking regulation in europe can only be beneficial for citizens.
in writing. the shadow banking system represents 25 to 30% of the entire financial system and half of the total assets of banks. the commission, with its green paper (of 19 march 2012) has set a first milestone on the way to a genuine control and supervision of the shadow banking system. this approach is based on indirect regulation of the system. but it is regrettable that there has been no criticism of the decisive role that banks as a whole have played in the present sovereign debt crisis. it is a direct regulation extended to some of its aspects that should be implemented. the proposed regulation seems to me to be quite inadequate, particularly in terms of consumer protection, and will not prevent financial institutions from transferring risky assets to these less regulated entities such as shadow banks. in particular, the commission could work towards changes in ifrs so that aggregates without compensation or risk weighting receive greater attention. i therefore abstained on this vote, which does not call into question the relationship between the banking system in general and these 'shadow players', whose number has increased considerably in recent years (short explanation of vote pursuant to rule 170 of the rules of procedure).
in writing. this report, which i supported, is part of a wider initiative in the digital field. the development of digital technology is constant and legislation is often lagging behind. it is therefore important to allow for the development of a framework that is flexible enough to protect children in their use of these tools while still maintaining sufficient flexibility to adapt to these permanent changes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of children in the digital world. young people today are more proactive and intuitive in their use of digital technology than adults. that is why, in order to strengthen the protection of children from illegal and inappropriate content circulating in the digital world, i support this report which aims to establish more effective cooperation at european level.
in writing. i welcome this text, which lays the foundations for a strong response to limit the risks children face on the internet. the member states need to coordinate their efforts to better address these dangers: the internet has no borders, and neither should our actions. it is above all the parents and schools who must learn to respond to these challenges. reducing our children's exposure to danger, avoiding risk, coordinating our responses better, all without compromising our privacy - these are essential measures that i fully support.
in writing. 90% of 9-16 year olds go online at least once a week. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. it is the duty of the states and the eu to do everything possible to effectively protect children and young people from the dangers of the digital world, which is not, as the idea goes, a virtual world without risk or consequence. the regulation of online content, the strengthening of the signalling of illegal content, judicial and police cooperation between member states and with third states are actions to be carried out quickly. finally, age verification systems at the entrance to sites should be created to prevent children from accessing any inappropriate content. the proposals in my report on the protection of minors also need to be implemented urgently: the creation of a .kid domain name for children's content, which should be regularly monitored by an independent authority; awareness campaigns; the distribution of information kits on how to surf safely; the protection of minors through filtering systems; the reporting of harmful content via a green number; training of teachers and trainers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the protection of children in the digital world. with the increasing presence of new technologies in the daily lives of citizens, and especially children, it is essential that they are educated in these new media. it is also necessary to protect children with stricter rules against the potential dangers of illegal content on the internet.
in writing. the international convention on the rights of the child, whose anniversary we will be celebrating on the same day as this vote, reminds us that a child is not only a fragile being who must be protected but also a person who has the right to be educated, cared for and protected, no matter where in the world he or she is born. on this international day for the rights of the child, the european parliament voted by a very large majority a resolution on the protection of children in the digital world, against the risks of violence, fraud, child pornography and sexual harassment that children can encounter on the net. our resolution strongly calls on states to make further efforts to combat illegal and harmful content on the internet, to ensure safe use for children, while stressing the importance of educating children on the new digital media. at a time when surfing the internet is becoming a habit for our children, it is necessary to ensure stronger protection for them.
in writing. in the digital age, with smartphones and tablets becoming part of our daily lives, and especially children's lives, we need to ask ourselves how we can protect this vulnerable group from the particularly violent or shocking content to which they may be exposed, and to prevent any risk of harassment or fraud. that is why i supported the adoption of my colleague silvia costa's report, to highlight the need for coordinated action at european level, in collaboration with the member states and the internet operators themselves. we should be better equipped to report illegal content or abusive behaviour on the internet and to foster better cooperation with the police and juvenile justice services. in addition, tools such as parental controls, filtering software or age verification systems should also be better exploited. finally, given that adolescents are often not aware of the personal information they leave on the internet and that it can be exploited for commercial or malicious purposes, it is essential that information campaigns be developed - particularly through schools - to disseminate best practices.
in writing. the internet has made it easier to access information and has multiplied the sources of information. the internet is also a teaching tool that is still under-used in french schools. that is why the european parliament, and i share that view, has felt that young people's access to digital technologies should be promoted while ensuring a high level of protection. parliament took the view that the education of young people also involves this new medium in that it helps to train them for citizenship. however, this learning must be strictly supervised, since deviations in the form of illegal or inappropriate content exist and must be prevented.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'protecting children in the digital world' because, in a context where young europeans are spending more and more time at the computer and at an earlier age, i am concerned about the possible dangers of internet surfing for young people. we should improve coordination at european level to report illegal content or abusive behaviour. cooperation between police and judicial authorities and between european union agencies must support the fight against child pornography. parental and educator education on new media is also a key element, which should be at the heart of the system, as should the introduction of helplines to report illegal behaviour and content.
in writing. in europe, internet use by children is becoming commonplace. for example, a study shows that almost all children aged 9 to 16 in the eu use a computer for play or homework. while internet use can help children to learn and develop, it also exposes them to the dangers of violence, fraud, and pornography, all of which are often unknown to parents. by voting in favour of this resolution, i am asking that children be better protected in the digital world. to do this, i am particularly in favour of using additional technological options to prevent children from accessing content that is inappropriate for their age (parental controls, age verification systems, etc.). it also seems to me crucial that children, parents and educators are better trained in the use of new digital media. in addition, i believe that better coordination at european level of contact points such as hotlines for reporting illegal content or abusive behaviour, and better cooperation with third countries for the rapid removal of inappropriate content from sites hosted on their territory, are essential.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of children in the digital world. the digital world offers a powerful tool for communication, information and education. children today are entering this world earlier and earlier. parents are not always able to protect their children in this complex and rewarding world that also presents dangers - commercial solicitation, sexual assault, harassment on social networks, and so on. i supported this report, which allows for better coordination of action at union level. this protection includes digital education, the fight against illegal and harmful content for minors, the protection of privacy and the right of reply. this report has managed to combine these two main principles, the protection of children and the defence of freedoms.
in writing. adopted by the european parliament, this own-initiative report, which i supported, is a text of general policy on social entrepreneurship. a real call to support the social and solidarity-based economy at european level, i followed this theme with interest, being myself rapporteur on a related text concerning the creation of a european label for investment funds wishing to invest in social entrepreneurship.
in writing. with almost 11 million employees in europe, the social economy sector is a key component of the so-called social market economy that the european union is seeking to develop. because it meets a double requirement - economic and social - and aims to meet social needs not or poorly met by both the market and the state, and because it is part of a logic of social and territorial cohesion, the sector has considerable advantages, especially in times of crisis. the aim today is to facilitate and support its development in all the member states, since it is a sector which is still undervalued and little recognised. i therefore welcome the adoption of the becker report which emphasizes all these elements and sets out some lines of action. i also supported mr vergiat's alternative resolution which sought to highlight the diversity of the sector, particularly in france, and to recall the difference between the social and solidarity economy sector and social enterprises. in the report we ask for a comparative study of the existing frameworks in the member states, but also for more flexibility in access to financial support.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the social entrepreneurship initiative. the report proposes to stimulate the creation of social enterprises, since they, like smes, are responsible for job creation, which is the european union's number one priority at the moment. i am also pleased that the social label, a project i have been working on for two years, has been included in paragraph 28 of the report, thanks to our voluntary work and the support of all the political groups. this is good news for the future of the social label, which is not limited to social enterprises alone, but to all companies wishing to promote compliance with social standards at work.
in writing. social enterprises are good for growth, they are a guarantee of inclusion and innovation. they already represent almost 11 million jobs. however, there is no clear legal framework for them. the commission has sought to lay the foundations for accompanying framework conditions. in voting in favour of this report, i am calling for more precision, but also for more ambition. it is time for local, national and european authorities to take an active role in supporting them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'social entrepreneurship initiative' to support the action of companies whose aim is to provide goods or services to vulnerable people and who use their profits to achieve a social objective. a strategy and measures to promote social entrepreneurship are important for the development of this sector.
in writing. supporting social entrepreneurship is a good thing. but we need to agree on what we hear about it. social entrepreneurship cannot be limited to providing services to vulnerable, marginalised or excluded people. nor can it be intended to replace public services. its staff must be salaried and not volunteers. that is a number of points on which this report is at least vague. so we must be on our guard. the insistence on making social enterprises "competitive" enterprises in the context of the "social market economy" is equally worrying, because competitiveness is not the aim of a social enterprise. despite all these worrying aspects, i welcome the fact that this report pays particular attention to the recognition of social enterprises and supports increased support for social enterprises. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. this text, which i supported, aims to implement a real banking union between the member states. it is the european parliament's response to president van rompuy's initiative to redefine economic and monetary union. it also proposes to go further in fiscal union and economic union between member states while strengthening democratic accountability. the aim is to maximise the possibilities offered by the treaties in order to avoid any amendments - or new ratification - which would be particularly time-consuming. in this time of crisis, it seems to me that european integration is a big part of the solution. it makes it possible to manage better, to rationalize expenditure and to coordinate actions better. this is particularly true within the euro area, but the door remains open to anyone who would like to join us.
in writing. alongside banking supervision, the need for a genuine european budget based on own resources, and the strengthening of the fight against tax evasion, improving democratic legitimacy is crucial. it goes without saying that the union has been going through a deep crisis for some years now - an economic, social, societal, institutional and ultimately a crisis of meaning. that is why the idea of a social pact is fundamental to me. it is the idea that the union must be based on a fifth pillar - in addition to the four pillars put forward in the report by the presidents. the social dimension is the poor relation of the union's action in this period of crisis. binding rules on budgetary discipline and the monitoring of economic and budgetary policies must be accompanied by rules on employment and social criteria: we therefore call for the establishment of a social pact for europe which promotes, in particular, decent wages and the implementation of a social protocol to protect social rights and labour law. the citizens hard hit by the crisis and its social consequences expect more than austerity and fiscal rigor. it is up to the union to show its added value and to recover the meaning it lacks.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on economic and monetary union. i support the recommendations proposed, such as further integration of a financial, budgetary and economic framework, as well as strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability.
in writing. strengthening economic and monetary union means facing economic and monetary crises with greater weight and coherence, which affect the union as a whole and cause considerable social and industrial damage. this strengthening means more powers for the union. and so this justifies new obligations for the latter but also for the member states. transparency of decisions and information for european citizens are, along with this pattern of increased integration, a necessity for democracy in a society of trust. in the necessary back and forth between the union and its members, which must be one of the union's privileged democratic tools, it is important to involve national parliaments so that they can appreciate the impact of their decisions at european level, just as it is important to involve the european parliament more closely in the policy to be implemented in the economic and monetary field. it would be right, therefore, for the single supervisor and the president of the european stability mechanism to be accountable to the european parliament. this would strengthen their legitimacy in europe but above all at international level, where the balance of power demands it even more. the treaties already allow us to make important reforms. the european parliament has a duty to act. why wait ?
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for the strengthening of the economic and monetary integration of the union. as the eurozone enters a new recession, it is essential that europeans agree on the organisation and decision-making processes within the eurozone in order to pull the continent out of this economic slump. the recent progress has helped to calm the market frenzy, but we must maintain the course and move forward to ensure that the euro area is stable for a long time and that the periods of calm we are experiencing are not just periods of calm before a new storm.
in writing. i am happy to admit that a genuine economic and monetary union, as the rapporteur claims, requires a huge transfer of powers and funds to the european union. budget, taxes, social protection, banking supervision - everything must be the responsibility of the technocrats in brussels and the central bank in frankfurt, according to you. nothing should remain for national governments and parliaments except the financial privileges and material advantages of their members, paid to approve you as they have done for 30 years. the problem is: who wants this, apart from those in this chamber who already see themselves as the absolute masters of a tyrannical europe, sheltered behind a pseudo-democratic legitimacy? no one is! you want confirmation? so for once, have courage. ask the people after a genuine, open, honest and democratic debate! you would never dare, because you know very well the answer they would give you: "fuck you!"
in writing. the crisis we have been experiencing since 2008 has highlighted the fragility of the current architecture of economic and monetary union. we must now learn from the crisis and give the union the necessary framework to ensure its economic and financial stability and prosperity. that's the whole point of this report. i also wanted to support, by my vote, two democratic and social demands which i felt were indispensable in this next wave of integration. firstly, i believe that such a strengthening of economic and monetary union cannot be achieved without stronger democratic guarantees: the involvement and control of the european parliament and the national parliaments are necessary. secondly, in view of the serious social crisis in several member states, i particularly support the recommendation to introduce social and employment criteria, in addition to the existing budgetary and macroeconomic criteria.
in writing. on the eve of a major summit on the future of economic and monetary union, i joined my colleagues in calling for the introduction of a social pact. it is clear that strict policies alone are not effective in helping to overcome the serious endemic crisis with which we have been struggling for several years. i would like to join the socialists and democrats in calling for solutions that do not simply rescue the banks but take account of the challenges of preserving our european social model and give priority to employment and training for young people. moreover, these reforms cannot be carried out without the involvement of the european parliament, the voice of the citizens in europe, and also of the national parliaments. the heads of state or government in the council must realize that if they want to win the support of the peoples of europe for these economic reforms, they must allow democratic control of the measures adopted. this is essential for the democratic legitimacy of this process.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union', which encourages economic integration in the euro area in particular. the report contains useful recommendations towards an integrated financial framework, relating to the single supervisory mechanism, the fight against tax fraud and taxation. these issues are at the heart of the european construction and the challenges it faces.
in writing. this report endorses all the decisions taken at the last two european summits. the budgetary pact, the growth pact, the european semester 2012, europe 2020, it is all there. the text even calls on the states to implement these decisions as soon as possible and calls for the designation of "bad pupils" (sic!). the banking union he promises us is just one more step towards the austerity federalism which the text very explicitly calls for. the usual round of demands for a little more power for the european parliament, of reminders of the importance of social inclusion and solidarity, will not change anything at all. i am voting against this text, its false solutions and its austerity measures.
in writing. the report by marianne thyssen (belgian epp member), instead of giving a genuine critical analysis of the recommendation of the quartet of the council, the commission, the ecb and the eurogroup, endorses all the initial proposals of the commission and the council, including increased surveillance of indebted countries, the adoption by the commission of binding economic policy measures towards member states, the implementation of the 'two-pack', the need to transpose the european stability mechanism into all euro area states. repeating and reaffirming the old recipes, which are dangerous for the population and the poorest, will not help europe to emerge from the crisis but will, on the contrary, contribute to deepening it further, as a growing number of economists argue, at the risk of plunging the continent into recession and dragging many other countries with it. the european parliament has thus missed a unique opportunity to give its views on a process from which it is carefully excluded. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the text i supported is an interim review of the work and cooperation between the countries of the european union and those of the acp (africa, caribbean and pacific). while the report highlights a slight loss of interest on the part of european parliamentarians, it nevertheless highlights the progress that can be made in the joint work of these two groups of countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2011. the assembly, which met twice in budapest and lomé, adopted ten resolutions and two declarations in 2011, thanks to the active participation and essential role of national parliaments, local authorities and non-state actors. it is in this direction, characterized by a strong desire for political cooperation, that work on the cotonou agreement and the epas for next year must continue.
in writing. i voted in favour of the neuser report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2011. i welcome the fact that in 2011 the ppp continued to provide the framework for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries. like the rapporteur, i believe that we must ensure that the decisions of the jpa are consistent with those of the european parliament. i also advocate greater involvement of meps in the meetings and activities of the pa.
in writing. through the joint assembly, which brings together european representatives and representatives of the african, caribbean and pacific regions, we have succeeded in creating the conditions for an open and democratic dialogue between our regions. i welcome the clear ambitions set out in this report to continue and strengthen our relations. this parliamentary assembly must continue its work in order to establish itself as an indispensable actor in the north-south dialogue. i particularly support the ambition of greater participation of citizens, and in particular women, in development projects, task forces and working groups.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is a rare opportunity to present some of the proposals together with a fellow-commissioner. first, i would like to say that i wish, on behalf of the commission, to thank mr sonik and also ms tzavela, as well as all the members who have contributed to the development of this very comprehensive report. i will, of course, concentrate more on the report by mr sonik. the initiative is very timely. as the report recognises, technological advancements have spurred a rapid commercial development of unconventional fossil fuels, especially shale gas, in certain parts of the world. up to now, most of this has been outside europe. inside the european union resource potentials are still subject to considerable uncertainty. as captured well in your report, public concerns over health and environmental risks have led a number of member states to consider adapting their national legislation to deal with shale gas projects. certain member states have already postponed permitting decisions and some have even adopted bans. it is clear that the future development of shale gas will depend on the extent of public acceptance of fracking. unless environmental and health risks are addressed in a proper way, and people are convinced that they are, then the development of this industry will not last. we need to face up to this issue and we need to face up to this issue now. these risks are also the main focus in your report. it has identified the most salient issues calling for close follow-up, including a number of uncertainties or gaps in current eu legislation. similar issues were also covered in the study which we released in september. i have discussed these issues in depth with my colleagues günther oettinger, who is sitting here next to me, and of course also connie hedegaard, and the commission has now included in its work programme for next year, 2013, a new initiative that will strive to provide maximum legal clarity and predictability for market operators and citizens and prevent, reduce and manage climate and environmental risks in line with public expectations and in a harmonised manner across the european union. in this respect i am happy to see that our ideas are converging. the commission’s impact assessment is already looking at options to manage risks and to address regulatory shortcomings. it will take into account the findings from recent studies released by the commission and the member states, as well as risk control measures put forward also in your report. we will assess how to prevent surface and sub-surface risks, to adopt monitoring, reporting and transparency requirements and finally to clarify the eu regulatory framework and remove potential obstacles with regard to both exploration and extraction activities. to conclude, i believe that we can meet the essence of your requests through the actions that we are implementing or planning. we look forward to engaging with parliament in the follow-up of this truly important initiative. i am also very much looking forward to today’s debate and will try to answer as many of your questions as possible at the end.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in addition to what my colleague mr potočnik has said, i would like to thank the two committees and the two leading members for the reports which show how varied the subject of unconventional energy resources, gas and oil, particularly shale gas, is. it is about environmental protection and also about climate aspects, it is about energy policy, it is about industrial aspects and also about social issues. the three studies commissioned by the commission, which we published a few weeks ago and which we are now analysing, provide a parallel basis for a comprehensive consultation and follow-up in the european union. we must not be fooled: as in many other matters of energy policy, we have had a wide range of opinions and interests on shale gas. some member states are categorically against it, others have moratoriums, and some see shale gas as an important contribution to solving their energy independence. the change in the united states of america is far-reaching: americans are largely independent of gas imports, and will be able to decide whether they are even willing to export gas. the price of gas in the usa is currently only about a quarter to a third of the price of gas payable on the gas markets of the european union. with shale gas, you have flexibility, you get away from long-term supply contracts with high gas prices tied to the world oil market price, and also indirectly, production in the united states of america is making a change for the world market: large quantities of lng, previously shipped from nigeria and qatar to the united states, are now free. they are increasingly being integrated into the energy strategy by japan following the shutdown of nuclear power plants after fukushima and also by europe with existing and planned lng terminals. in our view, for several reasons, it is unthinkable for the european gas market that shale gas meets all our gas needs: according to all initial analyses, our reserves are much lower, the cost of production is rather higher. and of course, the dense settlement of the european union with 500 million people will not reduce to zero the potential that exists in the united states in some of the deserted regions and states, but it will reduce it. acceptance questions are added. we will therefore continue to develop our policy of completing the internal energy market in order to increase security of supply, further develop renewable energy and effectively promote energy efficiency. shale gas is not a substitute for the internal market, energy efficiency or renewable energy sources. it can complement them. we now have a gas market within the eu with an annual consumption of about 540 billion cubic metres. a third of our deposits are produced within the european union, namely in the united kingdom and the netherlands. these potentials, these production volumes, will decline significantly over the next 15 to 20 years. and one chance might be that shale gas can partly replace the traditional production volumes so that in the future not one to one of every cubic metre produced in europe will have to be imported into europe. in this respect, shale gas could contribute to our diversification objective. at the moment we have only a few test drilling operations carried out in the member states. we will therefore be providing sound support for demonstration projects. we need more reliable statements on gas volumes and exploration costs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the water, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the water. the commission has deliberately included in its 2013 work programme an initiative to be attributed to several commissioners - mr potočnik, mr hedegaard, mr tajani, mr barnier and myself - which will deal with the relevant environmental, climate, energy and industrial aspects. we are particularly interested in the dialogue you have started today, in your speeches, in your opinions and in the very factual reports from both committees as a basis for joint conclusions next year.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, i am firmly opposed to the extraction of shale gas. this issue goes far beyond our european borders and has adverse consequences for our water supplies. i'll let you imagine, in developing countries, where access to water is vital, what these consequences can be and how dramatic they can be. but shale gas extraction is also linked to the question of land grabbing, to the question of land fertility, that is to say the challenge of food sovereignty in many countries. so, ladies and gentlemen, despite the publicity, despite the shameless lobbying at the very door of our house, i call on you to take responsibility. we need a binding legal framework for our european companies. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, you are asking me to choose between plague and cholera? have you not noticed that in many developing countries there is no water?
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, what an honour it is for me to have to answer all these questions! as regards the question of which developing countries will carry out research into shale gas extraction, i know that countries such as south africa and morocco have already undertaken research. but you can trust the multinational companies of the entire earth to go and get these resources to the last drop wherever they are. as regards the water issue, to which my colleague refers, and the consequences for water supplies, it seems that we did not have the same sources of information. i have seen an excellent film, gasland, which i recommend to you, in which the united states, although a highly developed country with advanced technology, is shown to have had a dramatic effect on water supplies, on the health of people and animals, which i would say was quite dramatic.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have a question to ask my colleagues, particularly about the polish claim, since it is felt that this is a debate which is being renationalized, and that in order to allow exploitation in poland, an attempt is being made to give it european legitimacy. on the potential, what answer do you have to the figures and the potential that were announced, and then to the discovery that there is seven times less potential for shale gas exploitation and exploration in your territory, poland? what is your answer to subsidiarity, since you are invoking this principle? does poland intend to apply subsidiarity to environmental rules? so far, this has been a matter of european competence and no country can exclude itself from the application of these regulations. finally, on acceptance, what is your response to the many european citizens, including all those who have made complaints to the committee on petitions of the european parliament?
mr president, commissioners, first of all, the exploitation of shale gas is totally incompatible with a genuine policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we must move to a post-oil society, and it is obvious that we will not do so by multiplying the reserves of unconventional fossil fuels. the health and environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing is totally unacceptable. the consequences of this technique on the environment, on health and on water resources cannot be accepted in europe and they are also the reason for very strong opposition from the population. as a member of the european parliament for three and a half years, i must say that i have never seen such intense lobbying on a text we have to vote on. this is something that is totally unacceptable and it simply means that we must go against the will of the people. moreover, the promised return is far from guaranteed. in the united states, the companies that are exploiting the gas are currently facing the greatest financial difficulties and now that the americans are going to make methane recovery compulsory - because yes, gentlemen, you who asked this question earlier, methane emissions are a real problem - it is obvious that the cost will be even higher. consequently, there is no evidence that it is profitable. that is why i support and have signed the amendment calling for a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, simply because it is during the period of study and drafting that this moratorium should apply. finally, i would ask my colleagues to reject the report presented by the committee on industry, research and energy completely and, of course, in any case to vote in favour of deleting certain paragraphs, such as those which say that shale gas plays a central role in the transformation of the energy system or those which refer to missing or incorrect information to explain the opposition of the people. perhaps it is time to stop treating european citizens as fools. they're not! (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". no one can afford to check your figures, but don't you think it's more likely that the economic recession is the cause of the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the united states? it's not funny, it's not funny! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i'll answer both of your questions. it would take a very fine life cycle analysis of both to be able to compare them equally. there are, as you know, since germany is a pioneer, techniques for extracting coal which are now much cleaner than those which we had in the past and which therefore allow a considerable reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. but i think it is useful, indeed, to have a comparison between the one and the other. as regards your second question, mr krahmer, we should not have the butter and the butter money, in other words we should not have both coal and gas. and that is precisely what we often have today. and my statement was general. you know very well that the peak oil probably happened in 2008 or 2009. if we exploit massively on a global scale all the unconventional resources, it's not two or three degrees more we're going to have, but five, six or seven... (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i'm obviously not accusing you of anything and i'm obviously not going to. i do not accuse anyone of anything because i do not like to accuse without proof, but i do not see much connection between animal experimentation and the shale gas affair. i think we may have different or the same views on animal testing, i don't know. it is true that as members we receive thousands of emails, but this is the first time we have had an exhibition of this nature on the day we vote in the european parliament's plenary. it is something very special and worth noting. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". it is perfectly legitimate for some communities to make this claim, but i would draw your attention to the fact that there are others who are completely opposed to the exploitation of shale gas. that is precisely why, if we go in this direction, it can only be with a very serious legal framework, and with the assurance that all the damage that will be caused to people will be paid by those who have exploited the shale gas, because that is the minimum that can be demanded. once these safeguards are in place, i am not sure that the profitability of shale gas exploitation will be assured and that those who are considering exploiting it will still have the same desire to do so.
mr president, commissioners, i think this debate has reached the height of misinformation. why would you do that? because on the one hand, there is an exhibition - and i think it was initiated by the polish members of parliament - that looks like a citizens' organisation, but when you look closely, you see that it is funded by a coalition of shale gas industries. i would say that it is a fraud on the goods: you do not say exactly who and what. that's our criticism of this exhibition. on the other hand - i think you forget them, but the commissioners have mentioned it - there are reports commissioned by the commission. i ask you to read them carefully, because the environmental report shows very clearly that there are risks of pollution of surface water and groundwater and risks of depletion of water resources. the land grab can be devastating, and there can be air pollution. but it seems that these risks do not exist. it is not a question of being for or against shale gas, since decisions on the energy mix are a matter of national sovereignty. our concern as elected representatives, as members of the european parliament, is to protect the citizens of europe. these reports show that there are clearly identified shortcomings in the legislation: the inadequacy of the water framework directive, the management of effluent to be integrated into the mining waste directive, and the integration of hydraulic fracturing into the environmental impact assessment directive. if we do not address these shortcomings, we will face serious problems, as has been the case in the united states and canada. the responsibility of companies must also be total. they will have to prove that they will have sufficient financial guarantees to support the application of the polluter-pays principle in the event of environmental damage. that is why it is not for industry to decide our energy future, but for citizens. finally, with the support of about 100 members, we tabled an amendment calling for a european moratorium on hydraulic fracturing. i hope that as many members as possible will take responsibility at the time of the vote and demonstrate that the lobbies do not have all the power in brussels. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to point out that poland is in breach of the water directive. you are therefore already being asked to comply with the requirements of this directive. the second problem with hydraulic fracturing is its social acceptability. the commissioner has already spoken about this. when people know that there are risks to their exploitation - as was the case in france and bulgaria - it is still up to them to decide. at the same time, in relation to the risk posed by co2 - which was the subject of questions earlier - shale gas will not replace all energy sources. we must develop renewable energy. europe is doing it, commissioner oettinger has spoken about it, and you too have the opportunity to do it in poland.
the question is "blue cardboard". my question will be very short and very simple. we have not had an answer just now, especially in view of the expertise that has been carried out on the impact of the exploration and exploitation of shale gas creating micro-earthquakes. we have a british study and american studies. what is your response, particularly in terms of energy choices, to the impacts of shale gas exploration and exploitation on soil stability?
the question is "blue cardboard". my question is similar. the problem with this exhibition is not that industrialists can exhibit, we agree, but that they say so when they are industrialists. when they're ngos, they say so. the problem is that we are deceiving ourselves: we do not know exactly who they are and, as claude turmes said, we realize that they are industrialists linked to the exploitation of shale gas. that is what is wrong, not the fact that lobbies come to parliament and can influence people. we need total transparency on who's involved.
mr president, we are having a very passionate debate today on a particularly sensitive subject. i would like to return to the two reports we are discussing and congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr sonik and mrs tzavela, for the very balanced and very realistic approach they have taken to shale gas exploitation. i support them for that, and for a number of reasons. the first is the cost of energy and competitiveness. we are in a period of serious economic crisis: many of our citizens are very concerned about the increase in the price of energy and we know that the energy bill is a fundamental element of the competitiveness of our companies. the example of the united states is very telling in this respect. the second reason is energy independence and diversification. emphasis should be placed on the search for new, less polluting extraction technologies and on strict compliance with safety requirements for the experimentation, exploration and exploitation of this resource. what concerns me is the loss of faith in scientific and technological progress - from which innovation, entrepreneurship and risk-taking are derived - which is undeniably contributing to the deindustrialisation of europe. we therefore need to gather more knowledge and information before we condemn shale gas once and for all. we cannot and will not be able to ignore for long the immense reserves of european shale gas and the opportunity it represents. i therefore do not think that a moratorium is appropriate. what i hope is that, in compliance with subsidiarity and with a strict regulatory framework, respectful of the environment, water resources and security, we can allow member states who wish to take advantage of this opportunity. so we need real regulation. let us start the debate with the studies which have been commissioned by the commission and i am confident that we will be able to obtain a legal framework which will be conclusive.
mr president, commissioner, nobody has mentioned it yet, but i think something important happened on sunday, as the world bank presented its report, announcing that by 2060 global warming would be over four degrees. it's the world bank that's announcing it, which means we're in a serious situation. what this means very concretely is that if we want to prevent this, we're going to have to go from 35 billion cubic meters of co2 in 2050 to 10 billion. that means that we will have to take very strict measures, not just to reduce, but to really divide by two or three our emissions. what this means in very concrete terms is that today, faced with this global and european challenge, we will be forced not to use all the energy available if we do not want to cause global warming to explode. i say this because everyone knows today that methane has a thirty times greater effect on global warming than co2, and that for shale gas, between four and eight percent of the methane escapes into nature from the well to the pipelines. this applies to all methane, of course. so this is a fundamental issue. finally, to illustrate the need for european regulation, i visited a shale gas well near wrocław, which is being drilled by halliburton in poland. there was no reservoir for holding water. the hydraulic fracturing had occurred. the water was back in the wild. that is why we need real legislation and a moratorium in the meantime.
in writing. this parliamentary report presents a balanced and dispassionate approach to a highly controversial subject, and i welcome it. i believe that the choice of the energy mix and the authorization of shale gas extraction are national matters. this is in line with the principle of technological neutrality which i advocate in the context of the energy roadmap 2050 debate. that is why i do not support the idea of a european moratorium on the exploration and extraction of shale gas. it is nevertheless the responsibility of the european union to define rules at european level to ensure environmental protection and high levels of safety. as it stands, hydraulic fracturing is a serious problem that cannot be ignored. there is also talk of large shale oil resources in europe, but no one can say for sure that the potential is promising enough to consider industrial exploitation. so, in order to make informed choices, let us continue to evaluate the presumed reserves and research exploration techniques. we must not close the door on this source of energy, given the developments on the world energy market and the challenges to europe's competitiveness.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, if the european institutions are to promote solidarity and employment for all, they should invent a real industrial and social shield to defend the automobile industry, jobs, research and training of workers. since there is so much noise about a so-called growth pact, why are the structural funds and the european investment bank not being mobilised to defend every site, every job from psa in aulnay, to rennes, to ford or general motors? the automotive sector needs a new impetus with the vehicles of tomorrow which should be cleaner, safer, more energy efficient and therefore new research and new factories are needed. europe's trade policy must be completely reviewed, particularly its agreements with korea and those currently under negotiation with japan, which are draining the european automobile industry. i propose, commissioner, that in coordination with the member states, moratoriums be decided on all plans for dismissals and closures of firms, that any company which receives public funds from the european union, but also from national governments, and which dismisses or relocates, should return this money, and that a new public credit system supported by european funds and the european central bank should be able to promote innovative, ecological and job-creating projects.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in some areas europe is no longer competitive. it's a fact we must accept, but not suffer. we need to drastically reduce our dependence on foreign countries in such strategic sectors as steel. we cannot abandon a know-how of more than two centuries to the mere vagaries of the market. we need a european initiative urgently. i ask you, therefore, solemnly: what strategy will you adopt to prevent certain governments, like france, from undertaking unsuccessful and counterproductive attempts at productive recovery, destructive both in terms of jobs and investment?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, with this question we are at the heart of the main european contradiction: to serve people and their needs and to build the future, or to focus only on financial profitability, dividends, free and undistorted competition, which destroys while relying only on a competitive dumping? steel and steelmaking: an industry at the very foundation of europe. a sector which has allowed many sectors to develop, in search of progress, men to acquire unusual know-how - the automobile, the railway, the building, the packaging, the agri-food sector. a sector which directly and indirectly provides millions of jobs, a wealth which is indispensable for our territories and our peoples. a sector which has made europe great and which is in great danger. vampirized by finance and the big international groups, our steel industry is on the verge of a huge crisis which will destroy many production capacities, will see know-how disappear, will destroy the lives of thousands of employees. the mittal code is, in this respect, instructive. it is closing sites such as those in gandrange, florange and liège in belgium, from where it did not hesitate to transfer $37 billion to luxembourg for tax optimization purposes. he's been selling off the arms, keeping only the most profitable. at the same time, he is building many blast furnaces in india, financed by the sweat and blood of european workers who throw them away after they have been well used. the independence of europe and the future of european industry are at stake. "the mason is seen at the foot of the wall", says a french proverb. what does the commission intend to do? will it decide to act for europe and finally assume its responsibilities by declaring the safeguarding of the steel industry and industry a major european cause in 2013?
mr president, commissioner, there are three debates in a row on our agenda in which you are at the heart of the debate. you have had some of these discussions with commissioner andor, and rightly so, because we are talking about industrial policy, about policy which is also at the heart of the jobs of europeans. however, one actor is missing from your debate, and that is commissioner barnier. we are seeing that behind many of the strategies at work are strategies for financializing the economy, which are leading to the unravelling of the industrial fabric of our territories, and this is also the link that you will have to knit, if you will allow me the expression. i therefore thank you for taking the initiative of this working party which is part of a logical chain between the thinking on raw materials and that on the automobile industry. we need a comprehensive strategy, which includes both the question of research and development, the question of quality and jobs. i am always struck by how much europeans have been mobilized and shocked by the idea that they might no longer control access to rare earths as if it were a strategic issue - somewhat like what the americans have sometimes done - that when we consider the question of steel, for europeans, it would not be considered as equally strategic for our economies. we let mr mittal simply act like a financier and, contrary to everything we have learned in our economics books, instead of creating value added, he seeks to move up the value chain by destabilising and destroying production units on european sites to go and buy mines, where he can better organize speculation.
in writing. to ask those who have been dismantling the european steel industry for 60 years what they think the future will be is like commissioning an educational project from fourniret. these are the same people who, in 2006, in the name of the sacred competition policy, approved mittal's hostile takeover bid for arcelor, who lashed out at anyone who denounced the lack of industrial projects by the indian billionaire and who rejected any national or even european strategic vision. the result of your management? today the steel industry is largely in the hands of multinational firms outside europe, which favour short-term profitability and the search for the lowest costs, especially in their country of origin. but the steel industry is strategic. applying the common brussels law to it condemns many other industrial sectors, such as the automobile and the building industry, which provide millions of jobs, to an unacceptable dependence on foreign countries and symbolises the absence of a european industrial project. the reaction of france, which demands that strategic multinational companies take into account the concerns of the states, is pathetic: mr mittal does not care about it as he does about his first merger-acquisition. these multinationals are only serving their shareholders. except for being a shareholder itself, the state can't do anything. but the sacrifices of gandrange, florange, dunkirk and alas elsewhere will be appreciated.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, sis ii is a kind of sea snake. we're not counting the deferrals anymore. it may be worth recalling that the original decision was taken in 2001. i will say that in a way i welcome all these postponements. we are not counting the increases in appropriations voted for this gas plant, which i do not welcome, because we know that the commission is much more concerned about the proper use of appropriations on a number of issues. i do not for one, welcome the forthcoming implementation of general information systems. we all know that in all the member states there are lapses in the protection of the data of our fellow citizens contained in these files. the european parliament has had to fight hard to be informed and also to ensure that the remarks of the european data protection supervisor are at least partly incorporated, but that does not reassure me. there can be no security for citizens if this concept is not understood in all senses of the word and if fundamental freedoms are not really protected. we therefore remain fundamentally opposed to this one-sided view of security. we remain opposed to this secure europe. the blockage we are seeing with regard to data deletion is unfortunately just an example of what we do not want. we shall vote against this report, not because of the efforts of our rapporteur, whom i congratulate, but because of this method of generalised recording of citizens which does not take sufficient account of data protection.
mr president, this year the committee on petitions has acquired the right to be automatically associated with the hearing of european citizens' initiatives. i think that is the strong signal for this committee in 2011. citizens already knew which committee to turn to if their rights were not respected, but now they also know which committee to turn to when they have proposals to improve european legislation. i hope that the committee on petitions will be seen more and more often as the privileged interlocutor of the citizens in the european parliament. this problem of consideration is also found in the results of the positions taken by the committee on petitions. all too often we are called upon by citizens who are faced with legal concoctions on which we would like to take a stand; but while the problems are european, while the solutions should be european, we remain powerless, because subsidiarity is still not compatible with european solutions, and this is due to a lack of national will. i will take the difficult example of transnational divorces: the problems are both national and european, where custody or visitation rights go beyond national borders, in this case those of germany. despite the obvious difficulties for many parents to see their children born of a binational union, we in parliament are still powerless to act. my proposal that all european citizens should have the right to a national ombudsman, especially from germany - which sends a lot of petitions - on the model of the french ombudsman, has not been followed by any effect. however, in the case of transnational divorces, this remains a solution that reconciles a european problem and a national solution. in many cases, european law seems incapable of meeting the expectations of citizens. the european year of ... 2013 will have to deal with citizens' grievances, ... divorce but we need ways of acting to be ... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel, i do not know whether i should make a speech: i will sign your speech! i don't need to repeat it, i'll just take a few sentences you've said and go into them, but i think it's all been said. the only thing that has not been said is that with 1.10 or 1.13 billion, the budget we have today, we can continue our policies; but below one billion, we can't do anything. i think that the commission and parliament must be firm in the face of what is happening in the council. there are also - and you said it - on the one hand those who want a long-term budget to meet the challenges ahead. because the budget is an investment budget, not an expenditure budget. because we need to boost growth and employment and i do not think any head of state or government is opposed to this. then on the other hand, there are those who want to cut back on their budget to save money in the short term. in such circumstances, is it really necessary to meet at a summit this afternoon? we need to meet to discuss, but not to cut the budget. the position of parliament is clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. sixteen heads of government are on this line and they met last week you also said that. if i had one word of advice to give to them, it would be this: 'be united in the council, stand firm when it comes to defending our common budget'. at the risk of repeating myself, those who see europe as a free trade area and a single market are lying to themselves and to their fellow citizens. the european union is first and foremost a community of values, and therefore of solidarity. do you know that the estonians and slovaks, through the european stability mechanism, contribute to the financing of pensions in greece, even though they are higher than in their own country? i wanted to stress this - it is not said enough - because these countries believe in the added value of europe. my group is convinced that the european union needs a good, solid and responsible budget, because in the face of the crisis, for some member states this is the only way to make these investments. in the baltic countries, for example, a prime minister told me last week: 'without european funding, the railways will continue to be connected to moscow, not to europe.' that is not what european integration is about. the baltic countries, like us, need these connections to europe. more than €1 trillion of investment in infrastructure networks will be needed to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. if we do not have the infrastructure, we will not have growth and jobs. most of these investments will be private, but without the european contribution, these projects will not be realised, because of the lack of start-up capital. another example: we have decided to invest almost eur 270 billion to ensure that every european household and every one of our businesses has access to ultra-high-speed broadband by 2020. if we had waited for private investment alone to do this, we would have raised barely 50 billion euros. this means that there would be no broadband network for europe, because 220 billion would be missing. yet these investments are necessary for our companies. they create jobs, boost the economy and help us to be competitive. growth through investment is the only way out of the crisis. my colleagues, we are at a crossroads. either we learn from the lessons of the last 60 years and work together to revive a europe based on peace, solidarity and competitiveness, or we lock ourselves into selfish and nationalist positions and we will sink together! the 16 member states plus croatia that met in parliament last week showed that there is a core of member states that want to move forward. we in the european parliament will defend our position on the budget. we are defending the european programme for aid to the most deprived - you mentioned it. the proposal for a reduction of 400 million euros, my friends, is unacceptable! we cannot accept that this programme be affected, even if we make efforts on other budget lines, but there is no question of sacrificing the aid intended for the poorest of our fellow citizens, who will be even more numerous with the crisis. we have to take this responsibility to support the ngos that are taking care of these people, and this volunteering. it is not really a show of solidarity to remove this amount from the budget; it's going the wrong way. i am counting on parliament: we must not allow that line to be attacked. we will defend the europe we believe in, which is not an addition of countries that use the community's policies to their advantage, but a genuine union of 27, solidarity, responsibility and prosperity. we're at a crossroads! we have a duty, my friends, to block if this is not moving in the right direction, and we also have a duty to overcome national egoisms in our various countries to show the way to the europe of the future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, since the treaty of rome, the history of europe has been one of uninterrupted progress. it is therefore the responsibility of all of us to keep moving forward. the budgetary proposals made by the cypriot presidency and the president of the council for the period 2014-2020 propose nothing less than to bring europe's progress to a sudden halt and to set in motion a retrogression that would be catastrophic for its future. in the face of the crisis, parliament proposed to extend the 2007-2013 budgetary levels by simply increasing them by the foreseeable impact of the new elements attributable to the future budgetary period: the integration of a twenty-eighth member state and the taking into account of the new competences of the union, following the treaty of lisbon. the commission, for its part, made a lower proposal, based on current budgetary levels, arguing that the savings required by the economic situation should be financed by the enlargement of the union's missions. this proposal remains compatible with the european idea, in a context constrained by the crisis. on the other hand, the proposal of the cypriot presidency and that put forward by mr herman van rompuy are a sharp breach of the very principle of progress in the construction of europe. these arbitrations are eurosceptic, because within the council, we give in politically to the blackmail of the most eurosceptic states. so our position in this parliament is simple. since mr cameron is exercising his veto, we would remind you that the european parliament also has a veto in fine on the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. we shall not hesitate to ask our colleagues in parliament to use this right of veto to block the council's political resignation. a negotiation is under way. we must not forget that this is a negotiation with 28 partners and that the european parliament will have the last word.
mr president, this summer our member states agreed on a growth pact. in the autumn, they show inconsistency by not agreeing on how to grant him. the budgetary discipline is one thing, but it is the citizens who are paying the price of the crisis, by cutting jobs. they expect policies that promote economic recovery, the revitalisation of the internal market and greater solidarity. that is why, like other colleagues - and i say this to president barroso right away - we cannot regard the commission's position as a ceiling, but as the last floor to which we could descend in the case of the european parliament. the proposals of the cypriot presidency, as well as those of mr van rompuy, clearly do not take this into account. neither on the budgets that allow us to have a balance to promote territorial development and territorial equity, between policies such as agriculture and cohesion funds, nor on a number of activities that guarantee the competitiveness of the european union, namely industrial policy, research, the esm, nor to ensure guarantees for youth, access to training, erasmus funding, but also the inclusion of all young people in lifelong learning, as well as lifelong learning for others, adults or seniors. this is, as mr barroso has said, the fifth freedom. finally, the appropriations for the emf and for the poorest are not included in the budget, as regards food aid. so, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call for a real investment in infrastructure and the economy and in the future of young people.
mr president, in the context of the crisis which is hitting europe very hard, i would like to remind you that the only instrument we have at our disposal for collective action is the european budget. that's why it's vital to preserve it. we need a strong budget and a substantial budget, because it is the only lever for investment at european level in the service of growth and because it is also the only instrument for reducing inequalities between member states, between regions, between european citizens and, i think, especially the poorest among them. i believe that our parliament has two battles to fight: the first is to obtain a budget that is up to the challenge, which is absolutely immense in our time, and the second - which is at least as important - must enable us to ensure that in future the european budget is no longer simply a variable for adjusting national budgets. we in the european parliament must mobilize to get the european union to create its own resources.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, despite our efforts, those of the cypriot presidency - to whom i pay tribute - and those of the commission - to whom i also pay tribute - on the budget, europe is doing a bad job. historically, democracy has arisen from the consent of the taxpayers' representatives who pay the taxes and benefit from the policies that are funded. this consent shall be given by a public vote after a public debate. what do we see? europe has no taxes. it begs charity from its members. (applause) there will be a debate in the european council, but it will not be a public debate and it will not be a european debate. none of the 28 members is accountable to the 500 million citizens of europe. each of them will negotiate to minimize its own contribution to the common budget and to maximize the money it gets out of it. it's for the one who's the most generous with other people's money. so, of course, the debate is taking place here and now in parliament. how many of us are there? what media outlets are covering it live? how many citizens are watching this debate? parliament itself is not responsible, since we only vote on expenditure. we too know how to be generous with the taxes voted by others. president van rompuy wants this council to be a conclave, but the budget for the future of europe cannot be decided as the election of a pope behind closed doors, invoking the holy spirit of the founding fathers. (applause) this is coming from a christian democrat! the final outcome of these negotiations will only be a success for europe if all those involved agree that it will be the last, in this form and according to this procedure. europe can survive a lack of funds; it would not survive such a democratic deficit. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. my first words will be to express my regret at the absence of the president of the european council. the crisis has now caught up with the debate on the european budget. we fight, that's normal. but we need a deal, or we'll be the laughing stock of the international community. yes, we must support the excellent proposals of the european commission. at the same time, we cannot ignore the financial difficulties of many member states. in this context, i would suggest that we keep the overall multiannual ceiling as proposed by the commission and make it two periods. an initial three-year period during which a freeze of appropriations is accepted to give member states time to put their finances in order and ratify the stability treaty. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. in 2014, we will have a new european parliament, a new commission, a new president of the european council. in 2015, the united kingdom could leave the union. we could bring all these issues into the political debate in the 2014 european elections.
in writing. i deeply regret the absence of president van rompuy, who did not consider it useful to come before us to present his proposal for a multiannual budget, certainly the most important since the creation of the eu. let us not make a mistake in the debate: the question is not which programmes should be scrapped, but what future do we want for our union? too often, the european budget is heard as an expenditure budget, but it is in fact an investment budget, a strategic instrument to support smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. i would like to emphasize one point: the connecting europe facility and its transport dimension. we know that the transport sector is a lever for growth and competitiveness and a source of employment. so yes, the budget requested by parliament is high, but i would rather call it ambitious. our assembly will be extremely vigilant, even if it does not hope to do so, in the negotiations in the coming days in the european council, which must not forget that parliament will have a say. he can say yes or no if the proposal on the table is not satisfactory.
in writing. i voted against this nomination. france is about to take a decisive step towards equal rights by adopting a law on marriage for all, finally joining several member states on this issue. i believe that the appointment of tonio borg would contradict this progress in france and in europe. the portfolio for which he is called european commissioner for health is fundamentally incompatible with his past statements and actions on contraception, voluntary termination of pregnancy, and the rights of homosexual and transsexual persons. this position involves working for all european citizens, regardless of their gender or sexual orientation. as extremists are particularly violent in word and deed in france, the appointment of tonio borg would mean that europe can accommodate such deviations. it is clear to all french socialists that fundamental rights are not subsidiary: they are universal. beyond the scope of the jurisdiction, this is an ethical issue; european citizens are entitled to expect europe and the european commissioners to be at the forefront of defending these values.
in writing. tonio borg has just been appointed commissioner for health and consumers. during his hearing by the european parliament, he assured meps that he would put his respect for european law ahead of his personal convictions on abortion and homosexuality. in particular, it has committed itself to fully respect the european charter of fundamental rights. we take note of this commitment, but we will not fail to be vigilant. we now expect the new commissioner to impose this right of reservation in all areas of action of his mandate, starting with health, including sexual and genetic rights.
in writing. at the plenary session on 21 november, i supported the candidacy of tonio borg of malta as commissioner for health and consumer policy. his nomination was approved by 386 votes in favour, which i welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. during this audition, tonio borg was able to showcase his political skills. he was also able to answer all questions relating to the legislative files under negotiation, thus showing that he had a good knowledge of his portfolio. finally, tonio borg has committed himself to resume negotiations on the tobacco directive as soon as he is appointed.
in writing. i am voting against the appointment of mr tonio borg as european commissioner for several reasons. mr borg has demonstrated and implemented policies in his country which are opposed to women's right to control their own bodies. i refuse to endorse such policies. mr borg has on many occasions demonstrated his fierce opposition to equal rights, whether between women and men or between heterosexuals, homosexuals and transgender people. i denounce this opposition to the recognition of the equality of every human being before the law. mr borg also shows a lack of clarity on the issue of gmos and food in general, which is unacceptable for someone who is preparing to be commissioner for health and consumer protection. not to mention his lack of concern about conflicts of interest in the european agencies. he's a right-wing man, and a hard-right one, too. all of which is why i absolutely cannot approve his appointment.
in writing. this text, which has the broad support of the european parliament and for which i voted, aims to provide financial support to the italian region of emilia-romagna, which has been hit by a disaster and needs help in its reconstruction following the series of earthquakes that hit its inhabitants in may 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 5/2012 concerning the solidarity fund following the earthquakes in emilia-romagna and the amendment of the budget line for the preparatory action for the european year of volunteering 2011. the current shortage of payment appropriations is delaying the implementation of many european programmes, but we must not postpone decisions on such urgent matters as aid to the victims of natural disasters. i therefore support a rapid intervention by the eusf in emilia-romagna.
in writing. i am pleased that, in these difficult budgetary debates, the whole of parliament has mobilised to provide this much-needed help to italy. it will enable our italian partner to cope with the immense costs and difficulties caused by the earthquakes that struck it this year.
in writing. at the sitting on 21 november, we voted in favour of amending budget no 5 and the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 670 million to help the earthquake-stricken region of emilia-romagna. on may 20, 2012, a magnitude 5.9 earthquake shook much of northern italy and caused extensive damage in the emilia-romagna region. a second earthquake occurred on may 29. the earthquake killed 27 people. in addition, 350 people were injured and more than 45,000 were evacuated. the report by my colleague, francesca balzani, was adopted by a large majority, with 661 votes in favour, 17 against and 6 abstentions. i'm glad you did.
in writing. i voted in favour of the balzani report which aims to provide €670 million in aid for the victims of the earthquakes in italy. on may 20, 2012, a magnitude 5.9 earthquake caused widespread damage in northern italy. on may 29th, a second earthquake occurred. the human and material balance is important. the direct damage is estimated at 13 billion and the conditions are right for the solidarity fund to be mobilised.
in writing. this text, which has the broad support of the european parliament and for which i voted, aims to provide financial support to the italian region of emilia-romagna, which has been hit by a disaster and needs help in its reconstruction following the series of earthquakes that hit its inhabitants in may 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. following the series of earthquakes that struck italy in may 2012, italy requested assistance from the fund. i therefore support a rapid intervention by the eusf in emilia-romagna.
in writing. i voted for the fernandes report to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for italy. italy requested assistance from the fund following the earthquakes that struck the north of the country in may 2012. in addition to the human toll, these events have caused significant material damage, affecting homes, industries, farms, cultural sites, etc. i am glad that the members of the european parliament have voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund, for reasons of dignity and solidarity.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, thanks to the european parliament's call, the council has agreed to release eur 670 million to support reconstruction operations in the emilia-romagna region of italy, which was hit by a series of earthquakes in may 2012. the adoption of this report appears to be a first victory in the battle between parliament and the member states over the 2013 budget. parliament made its approval conditional on the regulation of the european programmes (european agricultural fund for regional development, research programme, erasmus programme) which are currently in arrears. i would remind you that a number of local authorities which benefit from the structural funds will not be able to receive reimbursement if the member states do not reach an agreement quickly.
in writing. at the sitting on 21 november, we voted in favour of amending budget no 5 and the mobilisation of the corresponding eu solidarity fund of eur 670 million to help the earthquake-stricken region of emilia-romagna. on may 20, 2012, a magnitude 5.9 earthquake shook much of northern italy and caused extensive damage in the emilia-romagna region. a second earthquake occurred on may 29. the earthquake killed 27 people. in addition, 350 people were injured and more than 45,000 were evacuated. the report by my colleague, mr josé manuel frenandes, was adopted by a large majority, with 672 votes in favour, 19 against and 7 abstentions. i don't care about that.
in writing. i, like a large majority in the european parliament, supported this text which constitutes an update of the rules governing our trade relations with brazil and thailand. this report takes account of developments in the poultry imports and exports sector. the vote validates the result of several years of negotiations and ensures better reciprocity between trading partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the agreements concluded by the european union following the negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994. this report concerns the substantive amendments to the concessions between the european union, brazil and thailand in respect of processed poultrymeat.
in writing. i voted in favour of approving the eu's agreements with brazil and thailand, which will provide better protection for the european poultry sector. the agreements provide for an increase in the proportion of meat in processed poultry imports.
in writing. adopted in the european parliament with my support, this report takes account of the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation (wto). the aim is to regulate the tariff contingencies and operating licences specific to timber exports in order to ensure fair trade while maintaining a high level of sustainability in this sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the allocation of tariff quotas for exports of wood from russia to the european union. the report is a legislative annex to the eu-russia trade agreement, which provides improved trading conditions for the many european producers who used to source from russia. for the first time, the european union is managing export quotas from a third country.
in writing. at the sitting on 21 november, i supported the report by my colleague vital moreira on the allocation of tariff quotas for russian timber exports to the eu. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 599 votes in favour, 11 against and 88 abstentions. i'm glad you did. this adoption by the plenary confirms the assent given by the committee on international trade in may 2011.
in writing. i, like a large majority in the european parliament, supported this text which constitutes an update of the rules governing our trade relations with brazil and thailand. this report takes account of developments in the poultry imports and exports sector. the vote validates the result of several years of negotiations and ensures better reciprocity between trading partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the modification of the concessions for processed poultrymeat between the eu and brazil and thailand. in order to protect european poultry farming, regulation (eec) no 2658/87 should be amended to avoid an increase in imports of processed poultry.
in writing. with this agreement, we are protecting the european poultry industry. it is a decision that benefits both our producers and our consumers. i support the eu's clear ambitions to ensure a high level of protection for all, while maintaining strong and sincere relations with our brazilian and thai partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which protects european poultry against the massive imports of processed poultry which do not always meet the protection standards imposed within the union. we must protect this sector which is helping to promote our terroir throughout the world. this is a matter of public health, since it seems essential to ensure that european standards of protection are met so that our citizens have good quality meat on their plates and our poultry farmers do not face unfair competition. an open market is a market where the standards remain the same for everyone!
in writing. the report by my colleague vital moreira on the concessions on processed poultrymeat in the agreements between the european union, brazil and thailand was adopted by a large majority. i'm glad you did. the report aims to address the dramatic increase in processed poultry imports into the european union. this increase in imports has had a very negative effect on european poultry farming. parliament has therefore just given its approval to the amendment of the agreements with brazil and thailand, which are the main suppliers of processed poultrymeat to the european union.
in writing. broadly adopted in the european parliament's plenary, this report, which i have supported, is simply an update of the association agreement between the european union and the state of israel. the latter does not change the substance of the agreement, but only corrects a number of taxation problems encountered in the previous practice of this agreement between the two trading partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part. these amendments are intended only to overcome potential errors in the technical interpretation of the agreement.
in writing. this resolution agrees to amend annexes to the protocols to the framework agreement between the european union and israel. the amendments, which are purely technical, do not in themselves pose any problems. i voted against this resolution, however, because the vote itself is a very bad signal from parliament at a time when the gaza strip was being bombed by the israeli state as part of operation pillar of defense.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague, mr vital moreira, on the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part. the report was adopted by 542 votes to 113, with 31 abstentions. the purely technical report aims to amend the eu-israel association agreement on agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fish and fishery products, which entered into force on 1 january 2010.
in writing. on wednesday 21 november i voted in favour of the report on the commission proposal for a regulation on the agreement between the european union and russia on the administration of tariff quotas for exports of wood. in the context of its accession to the wto, russia introduced tariff quotas for wood and, given that the european union is a major recipient of these quotas, it was necessary to establish the general provisions of this bilateral agreement.
in writing. russia was already an important partner of the union. now that it has joined the wto, a whole new set of possibilities opens up for our relations. we voted in favour of an agreement which will enable european timber producers to increase their exports to russia. this is good news for european producers and good news for our economy. this new agreement is a further step towards ever closer cooperation with our russian partner.
in writing. russian wood now accounts for 60% of european imports from the pulp and paper industry. the eu-russia agreement on russian timber imports will thus allow european companies to import russian pine and spruce trees to the eu at preferential tariffs. in the past, the european forestry industry had suffered from import restrictions imposed by russia. this new agreement will thus help to revitalise the sector. it is also an important step towards a more stable and predictable trade relationship with russia, but also towards the affirmation of european trade policy, since for the first time the european union will manage the tariff quotas of a third country.
in writing. at the sitting on 21 november i supported the report by my colleague, mrs inese vaidere. this report has been adopted and i welcome it. the european union now has to manage russia's timber export quotas since its accession to the wto. the report aims to provide predictability and better trading conditions. indeed, since 2007 the european union has experienced increases in timber export duties applied by russia. and these increases have affected many european producers who source mainly from that country.
in writing. adopted in the european parliament with my support, this report takes account of the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation (wto). the aim is to regulate the tariff contingencies and operating licences specific to timber exports in order to ensure fair trade while maintaining a high level of sustainability in this sector.
in writing. the schengen information system (sis) is the main security tool of the schengen area. for this reason, i supported its updating, which is characterised by the integration of biometric data from identity documents. the text also strengthened the protection of european citizens' data and defined the financing arrangements for this information system, which is essential for the security of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the migration from the schengen information system (sis +1) to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) - (including the united kingdom and ireland). the schengen ii information system allows the introduction of new data, for example biometric data, new indications and functionalities which strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice in europe. the report aims to determine the modalities of data migration according to the current planning: thus, the approach adopted is that the entry into force of the legal framework of sis ii starts from the moment when the first member state has migrated to the new system.
in writing. protecting europe means first of all guaranteeing our security. the schengen information system will be developed in such a way that the cornerstone of our security system will become more efficient and more complete. this new system will enable us to make border controls more efficient, in particular through new biometric data. information will be better protected, better used: this means less difficulty, fewer errors, more efficiency. i voted in favour of this report because it puts particular emphasis on data protection: it is the guarantee of increased public confidence, it is the guarantee of its success.
in writing. the aim of this report is to speed up the effective implementation of the schengen ii information system (sis ii). i am opposed to this development of the sis. it allows for the arbitrary retention of biometric data and its transmission to security agencies in third countries. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the schengen information system (sis) is the main tool for the security of the schengen area. for this reason, i supported its updating, which is characterised by the integration of biometric data from identity documents. the text also made it possible to strengthen the protection of european citizens' data and to define the financing arrangements for this information system, which is essential for the security of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the migration from the schengen information system (sis +1) to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) - (excluding the united kingdom and ireland). the schengen ii information system allows the introduction of new data, for example biometric data, new indications and functionalities which strengthen the area of freedom, security and justice in europe. the report aims to determine the modalities of data migration according to the current planning: thus, the approach adopted is that the entry into force of the legal framework of sis ii starts from the moment when the first member state has migrated to the new system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to support the effort to improve the legal framework for the migration from sis i+ to sis ii. the european parliament is showing its willingness to ensure that this migration takes place under the best possible conditions and that member states who need it can benefit from funds from the 2012 budget. several amendments are also needed to ensure better data protection in the context of migration. i regret, however, that on a matter of such importance for our citizens and the security of the schengen area, parliament is merely consulted here. finally, the issue of double standards remains with regard to the treatment of bulgaria and romania in this dossier. i hope that this approach will soon be a thing of the past.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague carlos coelho on the migration from the schengen information system (sis 1+) to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (without the united kingdom and ireland). the report was supported by a large majority of 604 votes in favour, 53 against and 35 abstentions. i'm glad you did. this schengen information system is by far the main instrument for the security of the schengen area. it is the backbone of a europe without frontiers and of an area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii will allow the introduction of new data (including biometric data), new types of alerts and new functionalities, which will ensure enhanced security and a smarter use of information.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the protection of the schengen area through the use of new computer tools which will allow for better coordination between member states. europe must have reliable instruments to strengthen its cohesion and the effectiveness of its internal policies. the european union has allowed every european citizen to move freely within the schengen area. this real advance has a direct impact on our citizens and their mobility, but it is still essential to be able to control migration flows in order to avoid turning our territory into a sieve. the new technological tool will help to strengthen the confidence of european citizens in a protective europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the two texts concerning the migration of the schengen i information system (sis i) to sis ii. our first message is clear: this migration has been decided on for several years, it has been long overdue, it is time for this system to be put in place, effectively and efficiently in all the member states: we therefore urge the council to put this system into operation without any further delay. the sis is also an essential component of the schengen system and the european architecture for combating organised crime and for internal security. this second version will make it possible to modernise this database and, above all, to make it a central and community-based structure. this migration and, more generally, this database are subject to an absolutely fundamental principle (and recalled in both texts): strict rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. this report adopted by the european parliament, which i supported, looks at several recent communications from the european commission. this evaluation report on the application of community law provides an overview of the state of play in relations between the european union and citizens when complaints are lodged. parliament has placed particular emphasis on the rule of law, the principle of legal certainty and transparency.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on monitoring the application of european union law. this report emphasises the importance of the primacy of european law and the charter of fundamental rights, and the dissatisfaction of european citizens with respect for their rights. this is regularly discussed in the committee on petitions, of which i am a member. it is essential that the european commission has the means to ensure that community law is properly applied on european territory. this control strategy must take the form of prior action by the european commission to support the member states in transposing directives and of a subsequent action of financial sanction if community law is not transposed within the time limits laid down in national legislation. to this end, infringement procedures must be carried out in the light of an on-the-spot investigation of the proper application of the provisions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lichtenberger report on the monitoring of the application of european union law. i believe that the european parliament must emphasize the rule of law, the principles of legal certainty and transparency. i note that more efforts should be made to improve and coordinate judicial training for lawyers in national administration as well as regional and local authorities at european level.
in writing. the own-initiative report by my colleague eva lichtenberger was adopted at the meeting of 21 november 2012. this report covers enforcement in the european union for the year 2010. my colleague eva lichtenberger emphasises the rule of law, the principle of legal certainty and transparency. it also stressed the need to improve and coordinate judicial training for lawyers in the national administration and local and regional authorities. finally, it recalled that the role of citizens in the infringement procedure was vital.
in writing. this report adopted by the european parliament has been the focus of all attention. i also voted in favour of this text because i think it is measured and consistent. it recalled that the decision whether or not to exploit shale gas was a matter for the member states and thus recognised the french and bulgarian moratoriums, for example. however, this exploitation is only possible in strict compliance with european environmental legislation such as the water, air and impact studies directives. finally, the european commission is responsible for assessing as soon as possible whether this body of legislation is sufficient or whether it needs to be further strengthened to better protect european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction activities. the complex debate on shale gas deserves to be taken out of the manichean framework of the problem. in this sense, i am trying to adopt a pragmatic approach: i am opposed to hydraulic fracturing, which is banned in france, because of the disastrous effects it would have on the environment, particularly on groundwater. since the member states are sovereign in the conduct of their energy policy, i could not support mrs rivasi's amendment. however, i am not opposed to the idea of prospecting or research to improve our knowledge of our energy potential. it is worth noting that these resources could help us to reduce our energy dependence and lower the price of gas. it is therefore better not to close the door on the extraction hypothesis, but not at the expense of nature or renewable energies, which represent the future of our consumption model.
in writing. in our view, as french socialists, national and european legislation must be extremely strict, for example on hydraulic fracturing, which is the only known method of extraction at present, in order to prevent any damage to the environment. this is not to deny the importance of energy independence and the place of energy costs in the competitiveness of industry. our priority must be to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. i regret that an amendment which i co-signed calling for a european moratorium on hydraulic fracturing did not find a majority today. despite this setback, i welcome the action of the socialists and democrats, which has been decisive in giving priority to two particularly important principles: the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle.
in writing. public opinion, poisoned by the green lobby, is often hostile to the exploitation of shale gas and oil. these would be bad in themselves. their exploitation techniques would be devastating to water, air and health, and unlikely to evolve or improve rapidly. the economic interest would be disappointing. my country, france, is the only one that has decided to play the ostrich. the government, which is led by a militant minority, refuses not only to exploit the reserves but also to allow exploration to determine whether the estimates of reserves, which are now theoretical and based on computer calculations, are accurate. such an attitude is unlikely to encourage research, whereas hydraulic fracturing without chemicals or pneumatic fracturing are already technically accessible, if not industrially exploitable and economically profitable. in the face of the immense challenges of energy independence, employment, competitiveness and rebalancing the external balance, such an attitude is regrettable. the simple public ownership of the subsoil avoids many of the excesses and abuses that have been observed in the united states and that we are told about. but, strangely enough, the reports voted on today are relatively balanced on the subject. their main fault is that they attempt to circumvent or trample on the energy sovereignty of the states recognized by the treaties. that's why i abstained.
in writing. after a heated debate on shale gas extraction, a real game of ping-pong in the house where, as rapporteur for the deve committee, i was able to express my deep disagreement and raise the concerns of developing countries, particularly in terms of land grabbing and access to water, fertile soils and food, which is potentially a challenge to the food sovereignty of these countries. today we voted on the two reports by the itre and envi committees, finally giving the ep a position on this very controversial subject. if the itre report was pro-shale gas, totally irresponsible and unacceptable, mr sonik's report was more controversial. i finally abstained on the final vote on the latter. the reasons are simple: on the one hand, this report has the merit of taking a stand for an adaptation of european regulations, of increasing the ep's will to control fracturing and of responding to the challenges; on the other hand, the moratorium, or more precisely the amendment urging member states not to allow new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu, was rejected. i am firmly opposed to the extraction of shale gas.
in writing. on the question of shale gas, we are faced today with many questions but too few answers. that is why i voted today in favour of a very cautious approach, given the risks and negative impacts of hydraulic fracturing on the climate, the environment and health. so far, i do not think it is appropriate for member states to allow hydraulic fracturing in the european union. the polluter pays principle should also be implemented to prevent industrialists from avoiding their responsibilities in the event of an accident.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague boguslaw sonik, which was adopted by 562 votes to 86, with 43 abstentions. this report presents a balanced and dispassionate approach to the controversial issue of shale gas exploitation. the report stresses that the choice of energy mix and the authorisation of shale gas extraction are matters for national competence and calls for strict control of drilling technologies, particularly hydraulic fracturing. the aim is to avoid any damage to the environment.
in writing. the report makes a damning observation about the lack of information we currently have on the consequences of shale gas exploitation and the use of the hydraulic fraction. he acknowledges that this activity can have dangerous consequences for the environment and human health, without drawing the necessary consequences. instead of calling for the practical application of the precautionary principle and recommending to the member states a moratorium on such activities, it merely sets out the framework for such activities in the future. it calls on the member states to exercise caution, as one would urge a suicide bomber not to jump off a bridge too violently. the dangers of shale gas exploitation are well known. the only reasonable position in this matter is to demand an immediate moratorium on this activity. this report does not. it is an unacceptable concession to the gas lobbies which have been active in the european parliament for months. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the fact that hydraulic fracturing is not explicitly authorised, that research authorisation is better regulated and that strict implementation of existing waste water treatment standards is called for. the report maintains a binding obligation for all operators to disclose the full composition of chemicals and the concentration of fracking fluids, and to fully comply with eu legislation in force under the reach regulation. today, we don't know how to measure the environmental and health impacts of these gases, but we do know that hydraulic fracturing techniques require a lot of drinking water and chemicals. the risks of water contamination are therefore very real. the european parliament has not really made a choice between the short-term vision of gas monopolies and a long-term vision capable of protecting the vital resource of water for mankind.
in writing. our assembly has just adopted a report which sets out in an objective way the potential impacts and benefits of shale gas extraction in europe. i have supported it wholeheartedly, because i believe that we must be able to know both the environmental risks associated with the extraction of this resource and the competitive advantages it can bring to our economy. i regret the ideological attitude of some members who have tried in vain to ban the exploration and extraction of shale gas throughout the eu without reliable data. i personally voted against this amendment, which goes against the principle of subsidiarity and makes a misuse of the precautionary principle. we can oppose hydraulic fracturing, which poses serious problems that cannot be ignored, but it is not reasonable to close the door categorically to shale gas, while the energy bill of households and businesses keeps increasing and our industries lose competitiveness. i therefore call for a european research programme to assess the available reserves of this resource and to develop environmentally friendly exploitation methods.
in writing. this report adopted by the european parliament has been the focus of all attention. i also voted in favour of this text because i think it is measured and consistent. it recalled that the decision whether or not to exploit shale gas was a matter for the member states and thus recognised the french and bulgarian moratoriums, for example. however, this exploitation is only possible in strict compliance with european environmental legislation, such as the water, air and impact studies directives. finally, the european commission is responsible for assessing as soon as possible whether this body of legislation is sufficient or whether it needs to be further strengthened to better protect european citizens. in addition, the text provides details on the attractiveness of shale gas in terms of energy independence and competitiveness of the european continent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on industry, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil shale. in the context of the energy roadmap 2050 debate, it is essential to uphold the principle of technological neutrality with regard to unconventional hydrocarbons. our strategy must be twofold: on the one hand, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, the european union cannot impose or prohibit the use of one or another type of energy, and on the other hand, the union must guarantee rules that guarantee a high level of environmental protection. we must therefore continue to research innovative exploration techniques in order to improve our knowledge of our energy resources.
in writing. i voted for the tzavela report, which examines many issues relating to the development of shale gas and oil shale exploitation in the european union. in the interests of diversification of energy sources and security of supply, i support the use of shale gas in a reasonable manner and with all the necessary precautions. i share the view that each member state should be able to decide on its sources of energy supply, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the report by my colleague niki tzavela was adopted by 492 votes in favour, 129 against and 43 abstentions. this report, entitled 'industry, energy and other aspects of shale and bituminous shale', presents a balanced and dispassionate approach. the report stresses that the choice of energy mix and the authorisation of shale gas extraction are matters for national competence and calls for strict control of drilling technologies, particularly hydraulic fracturing. the aim is to avoid any damage to the environment.
in writing. this report is a plea for shale gas. it is a literal copy of the propaganda of the gas lobbies that have been parading around the european parliament for some time. it calls for the exploitation of shale gas in the name of international competition and the diversification of energy sources within the future single energy market which the report advocates. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. such inconsistency and such failure to pursue the general interest are a disgrace to all members of the european parliament. i denounce this text, the fruit of the unhealthy collusion with the oil lobbies.
in writing. europe's limited hydrocarbon resources force us to import a large part of the energy we consume: oil comes from african countries, while most of our gas comes from russia. the eu is heavily dependent on the goodwill of these neighbours, who can set gas prices as they please, and in the event of a regional political conflict, such as the one between ukraine and russia from 2005 to 2009, we could find ourselves in a delicate situation. but the discovery of shale gas reserves in europe could change the situation. according to a us study, france's gas reserves are estimated to be equal to 90 years of our current consumption. the exploitation of these gases could restore a degree of energy independence to the eu, reduce the energy bill of businesses and households and lighten our trade balance. the challenge now is to find a technique that can extract them cleanly. that is why i supported this report, which calls for an unbiased and informed approach to this challenge, both economic and environmental. closing the door to shale gas is closing the taps of an energy that could be strategic.
in writing. the issue of shale gas divided parliament today in plenary. unfortunately the amendment, which i co-signed, calling on the member states not to authorize hydraulic fracturing operations was rejected by the european parliament: the 262 votes in favour were not enough. however, hydraulic fracturing is currently facing many unsolvable problems. moreover, the tzavela report, which presents shale gas and american experiments in a very positive light, and which i voted against, was also adopted. the only reason for satisfaction is that the sonik report on the environmental consequences of shale gas and oil shale extraction activities received a large majority. it calls for a ban on hydraulic fracturing in sensitive areas. it recalls that while each member state has the right to choose its energy mix, all member states should have robust rules on all exploitation techniques, including hydraulic fracturing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. i welcome the adoption of this report, although vigilance is still needed in view of the contradictory votes today. the fight continues!
in writing. in the heated debate on shale gas in the european union and its member states, there is no absolute truth. between pro and anti shale gas, there is most certainly a middle line, and dispassionate debate is a necessity. to abandon this energy now without even pursuing research would be a major strategic mistake. but on the other hand, to give a blank check to the exploitation of this resource when the technology is not yet developed would be an environmental folly. shale gas has undeniable potential and should be seriously considered. but as they stand, their exploitation puts the environment at risk, and it would be irresponsible to do so.
in writing. on wednesday 21 november, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, i was asked to give my opinion on two reports on shale gas. on this burning issue, it is with a sense of environmental issues, of the urgent need to develop our country and our industry to meet the needs of our people, that i have decided to vote for these reports. in the present state of scientific knowledge, it is certainly undeniable that large-scale commercial extraction by hydraulic fracturing would be contrary to environmental protection. however, this should not jeopardize scientific research into this energy, which could enable france and europe to achieve a certain degree of energy independence. a sound, public and secure control of shale gas and oil extraction in the years ahead (provided that safer extraction methods are mastered) would not only be an asset for our industry but would also help to bring down the cost of energy for a significant number of households. i understand the fears and apprehensions which arise from the discovery and use of non-conforming extraction methods for this new energy source, and these fears are justified. however, my role as a communist member of parliament, who is seeking the happiness of the people of europe, is to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand for election.
in writing. the european parliament adopted two resolutions on shale gas and oil shale: one on industrial and energy aspects and the other on environmental impacts. in both texts, the european parliament recognises that member states are free to decide whether to explore for and exploit shale gas or not. in this context, i welcome the vote by parliament rejecting an amendment tabled by a number of members from different groups urging member states not to authorise any new hydraulic fracturing operations within the union. for my part, i believe that further exploration research is essential to regain the competitiveness of our continent.
in writing. this report, which i supported, is a snapshot of the 2011 year of petitions submitted by citizens to the european parliament. many requests cannot be met because they are not the responsibility of the european parliament but of the national authorities. where the request falls within the competence of the european union, it is found that it concerns a very large majority of environmental concerns such as biodiversity loss and pollution. the european parliament has acknowledged that it should step up its action to better take account of the concerns of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2011. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am pleased that it has acquired the right to be automatically associated with the hearing of european citizens' initiatives. i hope that the committee on petitions will be seen more and more often as the privileged interlocutor of the citizens in the european parliament. we are often called upon by citizens to deal with legal tricks, such as the difficult example of transnational divorces. unfortunately, we do not have the means to be effective, especially when, in the case of transnational divorces, the problem is european but the solution remains national.
in writing. the committee on petitions is the most direct voice of citizens in the european parliament. this report provides information on the activities of this committee, which is essential to the smooth functioning of our institution. in 2011, for example, it focused its work on issues related to the environment, human rights and justice. it is to be welcomed that citizens are becoming increasingly familiar with the workings of this committee.
in writing. i supported in plenary the report by my colleague giles chichester on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2011. this report was adopted on 21 november 2012. this own-initiative report lists 998 petitions declared admissible in 2011. the rapporteur notes that many of these petitions relate to citizens' growing concerns about the climate, the environment and the protection of biodiversity.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, parliament has shown its realism and sense of responsibility on the budget. for two years in a row, a qualified majority in this parliament has accepted the level of payments voted by the council of ministers without adding a single euro. parliament has made sure that its political priorities prevail in its votes. these are the same as those of the european council: the europe 2020 agenda and, more recently, the content of the growth pact. the same sense of responsibility guides us today when we say - as president schulz did - that the 2013 budget cannot be discussed until we have guaranteed the financing of the arrears for 2012. none of the 27 ministers disputes the amount of these arrears, which is 9 billion. but now some of them do not want to pay in 2012 all the payments due for the programmes fully implemented in 2012. this is contrary to the financial regulation. it is contrary to the 2012 budget as we voted. it includes the commitment, read earlier by president schulz, to adopt an amending budget during the year if necessary. and above all, this attitude is contrary to the treaty itself. the european budget must be balanced, which means that it must be voted on in balance, but also that it must be implemented in balance. we cannot end the year with a debt of 9 billion euros. i would add that on the eve of the european council, refusal to pay yesterday's bills would deprive any commitment to tomorrow's budgets of credibility. in the meantime, the rejection of the 2013 budget is a reminder to those who have forgotten it in some capitals that in budgetary matters, whether it is a question of negotiating for one year or for seven years, nothing is possible without the agreement of the european parliament. we trust the commission - and i welcome its new commissioner for the budget - to prepare a new text which takes account of the state of our discussions and to play its role as facilitator, and we trust the particularly active cypriot presidency to take the necessary initiatives.
on behalf of the alde group. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i fully agree with what mr jørgensen has just said about the urgency of the situation, we all know that. and i think that when future generations judge, through the eyes of the historian, what our generation has done, it's largely on the issue of climate change that we will be judged. we all know how difficult things are, and having attended three climate conferences, i have been able to judge for myself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we cannot be satisfied with future commitments, with funding which is innovative but not specified, simply because we decide to do so. because beyond the challenge of climate change, there is also the political challenge of europe. i fully agree with what you said a moment ago, commissioner, about the need for europe to show a united face. at a time when we are facing so many criticisms all over the world, i believe that we can not only be initiators but also demonstrators of how we can reconcile the economic question, economic development, the interests of our companies and new industrial sectors with, at the same time, a fierce fight against climate change, that is, for the survival of future generations and of humanity. i believe we have a real responsibility here, because if there is one region in the world that has the capacity to do this, it is europe. there is no other, because for the countries of the south, development issues come before climate issues, and for the united states, the economic issue comes before the climate issue. today, we are the only people on this planet who can actually meet this challenge. i think we are all aware of this and that is why we must be ambitious, demanding of others, but also and perhaps above all of ourselves.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i quote: 'a world at + 4°c would trigger a cascade of cataclysms, including extreme heat waves, a drop in food stocks and a rise in sea level affecting hundreds of millions of people'. this is not the green group's doha preparedness brochure but it is, as you know, the world bank report, which adds that 'fighting global warming is an economic opportunity'. however, as we can see, it seems that the international negotiations are stalling and are waiting until 2015. we must of course avoid what led to the failure of copenhagen: trying to reach an agreement on the eve of the end of copenhagen and not preparing it sufficiently in advance. doha is an extremely important meeting. but since it seems that all conservatism takes precedence over urgency and the new economy, in particular the new, decarbonised economy, the european union must also lead by example. here again, the union seems to be stumbling: whether on aviation, on climate change linked to agrofuels, on the restriction of the carbon market or on hot air, the latest decisions of the european union are bad decisions. we know your ambition, commissioner. we must go to doha with ambition and we must continue to try to convince your colleagues in the commission, as well as us in the european parliament, that europe must remain a leader.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i think it is time to speak simple truths. the simple truth is that it is not by bombing israel with rockets, or by committing terrorist acts in tel aviv that we will arrive at a palestinian state. the security of the state of israel will not be achieved by continuing to colonize and by continuing to deny the palestinians any prospects. i believe that this parliament must take up its responsibilities: to demonstrate, to say, to support the strategies that could bring peace. these strategies are clear. we need a clear-cut yes to the reality of the state of israel and to the defense of the state of israel. we need a clear yes to a palestinian state, that is to say a palestinian state that is not limited by settlements. so we must support the non-violent strategy of palestinian president abbas today. if we fail to support this strategy, we are in fact supporting those who do not want peace and that is why i think it is very good that in the european parliament resolution we are going to vote on tomorrow we explicitly said that we support president abbas' strategy of going to the un and asking for recognition of the palestinian state as an observer state. if we do not do this, if we do not call for the lifting of the blockade of gaza under international control, we will not succeed in pacifying the region. we can't lock up 1.5 million palestinians and expect them to remain rational. yes, what islamic jihad is doing is horrible. yes, firing rockets at israel is horrible. yes, it must stop, but it can only stop if those human beings in gaza have a life prospect! it is very simple to understand, and that is why we say yes to israel's security, yes to israel's identity, yes to palestine. let's end the blockade and support president abbas at the un! (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i would like to ask you, colleague: do you think that the blockade of gaza has prevented rockets from entering gaza? no, you can't! the proof is that they sent over a thousand during the blockade. so it might be smart for you to try to understand that today, lifting the blockade, with international control of what comes in, bringing food, possibilities for reconstruction in gaza, and controlling the rest, is also controlling the underground entrances. as long as there is no international control, massive international control, but there is an entry of food, of construction materials, you will still have underground to bring in rockets, and you will have the situation you have today, with an increasingly desperate people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president-in-office, in these very painful and dramatic times, it is absolutely necessary that political force should replace the violence of the politics of force. our parliament, in this respect, must vote a clear and strong resolution in support of the ceasefire - if there is one - for a lasting peace and for the two-state solution. but i think we must stop justifying this escalation by constantly throwing the two sides back to back. in this case, there is a colonizer and a colonized. in this case, there is one people in gaza who are being blockaded, and the other one who is dominating them. the truth is that by designating hamas as the enemy and the interlocutor, the palestinian authority and the plo have been weakened, since they decided, twenty years ago, to end the military struggle and to start a process of dialogue. the international community and the european union have weakened and even humiliated the palestinian authority and have shown total impunity towards the israeli leadership. no political initiative has ever been taken to enforce international law. it is the same thing that feeds the radical fundamentalist groups which are used, today and always, to justify this unacceptable policy of blockade, colonization and war. the truth is that, as four years ago, the israeli leadership today uses fear and starts a war, and makes the blood of palestinians flow for the ballot box, as part of an election campaign. the truth is that this military operation is aimed at preventing palestine from gaining associate membership in the united nations. we must now be clear and help to enforce international law. we can do this by using article 2 of the association agreements, by clearly supporting mahmoud abbas's move to recognise palestine as an associate member. there is no more beautiful cry than that of mrs. mihal wasser, an israeli teacher who lives three kilometers from gaza, in a letter she wrote to the israeli prime minister, which was published in the israeli newspaper haaretz. i quote: "if you care about us, stop defending us with missiles. instead of operation pillar of defense, you should be launching operation hope for the future". well, i'm just saying that because there's no better way to say it. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". what you say is completely wrong! for the last four years, hamas has been playing the role of moderator and enforcing the truce. it is radical groups outside hamas, islamic jihad, that have occasionally caused rocket fire and now missiles. the fact that the military leader who had authorized the exchange of prisoners and was negotiating the truce was killed is an assassination aimed precisely at triggering this escalation - i repeat, as four years ago - on the eve of the israeli elections.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need today to enumerate all the crises and threats to our security which affect the stability of our continent and its neighbourhood. the news - we have just spoken about it - provides us with new reasons every day to consider that the multipolar world of the early twenty-first century is, in many ways, more dangerous than the one we have become accustomed to, because it is less predictable and less organized: civil war in syria, israeli-arab tensions, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, clashes and crime in the sahel, piracy off the coast of somalia, continuing war in the congo, to name just the dangers of today. in view of this, it would be irresponsible to regard the common security and defence policy as a luxury or an anecdote. it is a policy which is, admittedly, recent and still in the making. more than any other policy at european level, it is a policy based on the member states, on their material and human capacity, on their traditions and on their political will to share, or not, their almost absolute sovereignty in diplomatic and military matters. this fact leads too many observers and too many colleagues to regard the common security and defence policy as a negligible amount or as an unnecessary illusion. we believe, quite the contrary, without naivety or excessive illusion, that the csdp is a strategic necessity for the european union. that is why it is written in full in the treaty of lisbon. the european union simply can no longer afford to delegate its security and that of its neighbours systematically. of course, nato, which brings together 21 of the 27 members of the union, is still - and should be welcomed - the cornerstone of the continent's collective defence. of course, the transatlantic partnership must be reaffirmed and it is irreplaceable, but this is not the sole result of efforts and ambition on the part of the european countries themselves, quite the contrary! the americans themselves, who have initiated a real strategic shift towards the asia-pacific region, are asking us europeans to be more active, more robust, more self-confident in matters of security and defence. those who question the csdp, speaking of duplication, must realise that it is a pragmatic and intelligent complementarity between nato, a military organisation, and the european union. there are crises that affect our security and in which nato cannot intervene; the european union has been a major player in the development of the middle east, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the development of the middle east. unfortunately, such examples are likely to increase in the future. the european union often has full legitimacy to act, because it acts within the framework of international law, and there are few third countries that do not recognize it as a balanced role without ambiguous unilateral ambition. she has many means of action; it has the so-called global, civil-military approach, which it alone can take advantage of. unfortunately, the fault often lies in the political will - above all the political will of the member states - the lack of political will - we must also stress this - or of motivation on the part of certain brussels institutions responsible for the cfsp and csdp, the lack of vision, sometimes the reluctance to act vis-à-vis the council, the ideological reluctance because it is considered that soft power is more effective than the use of armed force, and also the absence, sometimes, of clear priorities which too often give the impression of navigation by sight. the strategic challenges we face are immense and unprecedented: a structural and sustained decline in european defence budgets, a reorientation of us priorities, and extreme volatility and diversity of threats. the european countries therefore have no choice but to undergo a major and collective strategic downgrade, or to recover and exploit to the best of their abilities the possibilities, albeit still modest, of the csdp. it is certainly in the area of capabilities that this effort must be most substantial today and we emphasize in the report the virtues of pooling and sharing promoted by the european defence agency, which is in the right direction. the economic and strategic crises must not be - mr president, this is an important subject - a pretext for resignation but, on the contrary, an opportunity to strengthen our common ambition. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is a pleasure, following this debate - and i would like to thank all the colleagues who participated in the preparation of this report in all the groups - to see a very broad consensus emerge on the fact that the european union must be able to achieve global international ambition, including a security and defence policy. i regret, as does the minister, that our british colleagues are still taking a very ideological and not at all pragmatic position, which is confirmed by the facts. they have spoken here as representatives of a great military nation, but they must not delude themselves. this great military nation is also going to suffer, and is already suffering, a considerable strategic decline, with declining defence budgets, difficulties in terms of equipment and human resources, like all european countries. of course, nato is a last resort, but nato cannot always and everywhere intervene to defend european interests. a number of countries in the european union are not members of nato. a number of nato countries will not always be ready to take on the defence of european interests. we have to face that possibility. the european union must therefore assert a form of autonomy which is not competition, competition or duplication but intelligent complementarity. and this is already happening in all the missions of the european union: more than a dozen missions are being successfully carried out today and are expected - this is the most important one - by countries which are themselves in crisis, and which recognize the european union as having a legitimacy that they would probably not be prepared to grant to any other international actor. we should be proud of that and reaffirm that ambition. i hope that the fairly broad vote we have tomorrow in favour of this report will help the high representative and the council to move forward.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the greens support the political message of this report, which calls on the european union to make the signing of the enhanced cooperation agreement with kazakhstan conditional on progress in democracy, respect for human rights and freedom of the press. i would like to denounce the verdict of the court of appeal of mangystau, which has just sentenced the oppositionist vladimir kozlov to seven and a half years in prison. his trial, closely watched by the international community, was called a show trial, a "soviet" trial. there is no hard evidence against mr. kozlov. he is accused of slandering his country to foreigners; the commission's work is also very important for the future of the european union. we cannot accept that opposition members and human rights defenders who are invited to parliament are in danger when they return to their countries, or even imprisoned. the credibility of our assembly is at stake.
mr president, i wholeheartedly support the commission's proposals on finning. you see, i come from the island of reunion, where sharks don't get much press, given the repeated attacks on surfers. but i keep in mind that a shark thrown into the sea is a dead shark. i am reminded that the barbaric practice of finning has led to overfishing and that european fleets are not without blame. finally, i keep in mind that 73 shark species are endangered, given the essential role of sharks in the life chain. that said, sharks have been in the oceans for nearly 400 million years - 140 million years before the dinosaurs - and they even help create the oxygen we breathe. so we cannot be that species - the human species - that sacrifices another species for economic interests and also to satisfy the pleasure, in asia, of a soup, which is not even good.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs. i am particularly pleased with the proposals in mr ferreira's report, which correspond, in the main, to my own proposals. european fisheries have a future and the cfp must accompany investment in the sector. fleet modernisation and renewal are essential to ensure both the competitiveness and sustainability of our fishing model. the average age of the european fleet is now 27 years, which raises serious environmental and safety problems. it is becoming urgent to respond to this problem. of course, there is no question of increasing fishing capacity and effort. i insist on this point. fleet renewal should be carried out at constant capacity or even lower if necessary. it will obviously be necessary to define precise criteria for this renewal. i therefore propose to give the commission the power to adopt delegated acts on these criteria. i take this opportunity to reiterate my firm opposition to transferable fishing concessions. this is a dangerous mechanism which would inevitably lead to the dismantling of our fishing model. however, a fleet capacity management tool is necessary as the capacity ceilings imposed on member states in the basic regulation are not sufficient. commissioner, you often ask me what my proposals are for alternatives to transferable fishing concessions. i'll try to answer your question. as part of my report on the emff, i will shortly table an amendment to strengthen member states' compliance with their capacity ceilings in the form of ex post conditionality. if, after three years, a member state does not respect its capacity ceiling, the commission may suspend commitments and payments from the emff to that member state. it is up to the member states to measure and control their capacity with all the necessary rigour. in future they will have to bear the consequences of any shortcomings in this area. i have no doubt, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support this proposal.
mr president, commissioner, the fisheries discussions of this part-session, each in its own way, prefigure part of what will be the building block of the future common fisheries policy. as architects of this policy, we must always bear in mind that each pillar of sustainable development determines the balance and strength of this edifice. in other words, fisheries policy must promote economic viability, job preservation and resource conservation. these five reports examine the main objectives of the future cfp, namely maximum sustainable yield, the fight against discards and the allocation of fishing rights. but these objectives must not be mere slogans. the technical measures in the gallagher report, even if they are only transitional, point to the difficulties of moving to practical cases, fishery by fishery, stock by stock. the ferreira report on small-scale fishing was wise in recognising that there is no single criterion, but a list of criteria, for defining small-scale fishing. the gróbarczyk report raises the question of the lack of data. the lövin report on the external dimension stresses that we are moving in a global context and raises the question of the conditions for exploiting resources outside european waters, as well as the import conditions for fair trade. it is no longer possible that the constraints imposed on our fishermen are not corrected by import constraints which prevent unfair competition. finally, the patrão neve report on sharks calls for the urgent need to strengthen the union's controls. success in ambition is not proclaimed; it is built by patient and meticulous work between goals and means. that's what we're trying to do.
mr president, i shall devote a few minutes of my speech to supporting - positively - on behalf of my group, the report by our colleague mr ferreira. in our view, this report has at least two advantages. first, it focuses on a key sector of fishing activity, often forgotten and sacrificed - small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing - which affects the majority of vessels and fishermen in europe. secondly, this report puts the problem of small-scale fishing at the heart of the reform of the common fisheries policy. if, as we hope, the new fisheries policy is based on sustainable fishing criteria, the interests of small-scale fishermen will be safeguarded and strengthened. only a fisheries policy firmly geared to the conservation of the marine environment, to the protection and renewal of stocks, will ensure the future of thousands of small fishermen and, with them, the future of the world food to which small-scale artisanal fishermen make a decisive contribution.
madam president, mr president of the court, my first words will be to thank you and all the members of the court, including mrs kaljulaid, who is accompanying you, for the work you do and, above all, for the attention you pay to parliamentarians. you've been paying us a lot of attention, and i just really wanted to thank you. i also thank commissioner šemeta, who, in continuation of the remarkable work of his predecessor, continues to improve the control of our accounts and the quality of the special reports. i would like to apologize to my colleague, mr bogusław sonik, who is delayed by other parliamentary commitments. i too regret the absence of the council, which is the budgetary authority. this report, mr president, is too late. it's not your fault. i have tabled amendments to the financial regulation to change the timetable. the european commission must submit the accounts by 31 march each year, the court must submit its report by 30 june and parliament must vote by 31 december. it is unthinkable today that in november we are still talking about the business of 2011. i propose that the working party i suggested should meet to amend this timetable. some observations: article 323 of the treaty suggests that parliament should ensure that the financial means are made available to the european union. i wonder if the court could not play a role of warning in the functioning of the union's treasury: we have learned that we are 9 billion short, we are unable to pay our bills. i therefore suggest that the court can help us to monitor the functioning of the union. a final word on shared management: i think we need to go back to this shared management. i have questions about the independence of the audit authorities, about the relations with our national control institutions, and i believe that this shared management - which was useful in its time - should be reviewed. i wonder if we should not, at union level, create our own financial function and abolish this shared management, which is full of errors, very expensive and whose effectiveness deserves to be reviewed.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am glad that the commission has decided to open these two investigations, but i would like to see them completed, and i echo the view of mr daniel caspary, who calls for this process to be accelerated if possible. this product chinese origin pv panels represents an import volume of eur 21 billion per year, or 10% of total chinese exports to europe. on such a volume, of course, beijing's practice of abusive subsidies puts the whole european photovoltaic sector at risk. as i said in my report on eu-china relations, europe must not hesitate to use trade defence instruments when fair trade is not respected, and it must do so, of course, in accordance with wto rules. other major players in international trade - you know - for example the united states, have understood this quite well. they recently imposed tariffs of 24 to 36 percent on chinese solar panels sold at abnormally low prices in the united states. it is not a question for europe of opening a trade war with china: it is simply a question of stopping being naive, of enforcing our rights, of preserving our industry and our jobs. reciprocity must become the basis of our new relationship with china. this principle must govern all areas, in the context of a genuine partnership which i hope will be balanced, but this will require europe to adopt, beyond trade defence measures, an offensive industrial policy. the renewable energy sector is particularly strategic, as it is a growth driver for the future. we have the capacity, if we choose to do so, to put europe at the forefront. we have the technology, we have the know-how, we have -- and this is essential -- human capital. what we lack, deep down, is the will to do it together. let's decide, it really is urgent!
the greens/efa mr president, commissioner, we cannot welcome the presidency, which is not here. we spend our time in our constituencies, in our countries, defending europe, saying: 'there will be no way out of the crisis without europe!' europe is a complicated issue: there are 27 states, soon to be 28, and it is still extremely difficult to find and adopt european decisions quickly. but, excuse me, commissioner, when i listen to you, i think to myself: 'if only the employees in the photovoltaic sector had not watched the video of your speech!' because they will say: "is this europe protecting me?" we have been told for years that the fight against climate change, renewable energy targets, green industry, the green economy, would be the pillars of european growth, of the european economy. what do we see today? we see european institutions that are, in part, paralysed by china, and that take months and months to potentially react, to initiate interim measures. how can we justify to all these workers, to all those who are fighting for europe to protect industry, to protect workers, to announce that the united states will take strong measures within a few weeks - up to 250% of customs duties - and that in europe we have finally begun an investigation in september and that we may have provisional measures in july, at any rate before the end of the year? it is true that first solar has already closed its sites in germany; it's true that the q cells news is a little behind us. but how many small and medium-sized businesses are in trouble today? even if they're not newsworthy, they're in trouble. thousands, tens of thousands of jobs are at stake. so, commissioner, on behalf of the commission, we are clearly asking you to speed up the process of putting in place provisional measures. europe had leadership, ambitious renewable energy targets, with a strong renewable energy industry at its side. today we are losing this second leg, as a real trade war is raging because it is a strategic sector between china and the united states, on a key issue of competitiveness and the energy future of renewable energies. it seems that the european union has chosen to wait forever. the decision, at this rate, will be made by default. when there is no longer any european photovoltaic industry, there will be no need to take any measures: you will be at peace! (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue card". thanks to mr caspary for getting me started again, it allows us to continue to work on this subject. what i find extremely strong is that the whole of the committee on international trade - which is not known to be totally protectionist, but which, through this oral question, is asking the commission a very strong question - is asking the commission to go much faster. it is not entirely unusual for a german coordinator of the ppe group and a german coordinator of the socialist group to say today that action must be taken, when it is true that germany has repeatedly said: 'let us avoid any problems with china, let us avoid any trade war with china!' it is therefore a united european parliament that is asking you, commissioner, to speed up the procedures. we have to save these jobs. we must follow the example of china and the united states and finally have an industrial policy which also defends itself with commercial tools.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to what has just been said and i must confess that i am concerned about the turn of events. it is clear that china is flooding the european pv market with low-priced products, taking advantage of our incentive policies. but what will happen once all our companies have gone underground, unable to face particularly aggressive competition? i'll tell you what: the chinese have a particularly aggressive trade policy which is to kill all competitors with low prices and, once they have a monopoly, to raise prices exorbitantly. at this rate, in three or four years we will have no european producers of photovoltaic panels and the price of chinese panels will be at least 50% higher than what our industries are offering at present. in short, if we do not react to behaviour like this, we have everything to lose. i would also like to express my concern, commissioner, about the reaction of our chinese friends. as soon as they learned that the european commission was going to investigate allegations of subsidy dumping in photovoltaics, they themselves launched an anti-dumping proceeding on european silicone and filed several complaints with the wto. is this to be considered a form of intimidation? the chinese will most certainly report the results of their investigation before the commission - their legal deadlines being shorter - and i agree with daniel caspary and my colleague vincent jadot, who ask the question: what will be done if the chinese authorities conclude that there is dumping? as we are thinking about modernising our trade defence instruments, i think we have here a good illustration of the importance of not underestimating them. that would weaken the union.
in writing. as the eu's trade deficit with china continues to widen, our companies are faced with imports of chinese products at abnormally low prices every day, and they have to deal with this on their own. indeed, although the european commission may decide to impose anti-dumping measures, in practice it is found that these measures are regularly circumvented by chinese exporters, who for example transit their goods through taiwan to avoid the imposition of duties. the case of photovoltaic panels is emblematic, but since the beginning of 2012, i have supported several french companies in different sectors, all of which are facing the same problem. i call on the european commission to intensify its relations with the chinese authorities even further, because we, our companies, can no longer be satisfied with partial measures and sectoral agreements. the commission must put in place a real strategy, set trade objectives and move very quickly because the situation is serious and requires an urgent response.
mr president, i find it extremely amusing that we are making statements defending violence against women on the day when the european council decides that there will be no women at the european central bank. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. this report, which i supported, aims to establish a multiannual management plan for fisheries exploiting salmon stocks in the baltic sea. it is necessary that this fishery be conducted in such a way that the conservation status of the entire baltic stock, including therefore all salmon stocks in the river, remains favourable, and in such a way as to ensure sustainable exploitation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the fisheries exploiting that stock. the principle of maximum sustainable yield must guide our action in the regulation of recreational fisheries and the management of the baltic salmon stock. in this sense, it is urgent to ensure the sustainable exploitation of this species in order to preserve its genetic diversity.
in writing. i voted for the grobarczyck report. the aim of this proposal is to establish a multiannual fisheries management plan for the baltic salmon stocks in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of the stock. i agree with the recommendation to collect more scientific data on the extent of recreational fishing and the impact of predators on the stock.
in writing. preserving our fish stocks, and particularly salmon, is not just about protecting a species, it is also about protecting our environment, our culture and our fishermen. the report sets out the principle of stricter control of catches without penalising the smallest fishermen. as you can see, it is therefore a two-fold protector of our resources and our jobs.
in writing. the objective of this report is to develop a multiannual management plan for the fisheries exploiting salmon stocks in the baltic sea. this will help to maintain the baltic sea stock, but also the river salmon stock, and thus ensure sustainable exploitation. the initiative therefore aims specifically to ensure sustainable exploitation of baltic salmon, but also to ensure that the integrity and genetic diversity of the stock is preserved. i voted in favour of this report because i am aware that fisheries management is an important factor in ensuring the sustainability of marine resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the fisheries exploiting that stock. in order to limit the exploitation of salmon stocks in the baltic sea, a management plan is needed to allow for sustainable exploitation and genetic diversity. various measures should thus be taken to maintain a sufficient reproduction rate.
in writing. the european parliament has received four reports which reinforce the consideration of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of these four cases, with some nuances. the gróbarczyk report notes a general lack of data and therefore of scientific knowledge on the extent and impact of recreational fishing on baltic salmon stocks in the various countries. the aim is to present clear rules which will unify the management and control principles for recreational fisheries. this type of fishing, if properly managed, can make a major contribution to the development of alternative forms of fishing, leading to sustainable growth in fisheries-dependent regions. it proposes that at least 50% of landings in each member state should be subject to controls.
in writing. i voted in favour of this purely procedural text, as did an overwhelming majority of my colleagues in the european parliament. this report is an annex to the 'omnibus i' proposal presented by the commission on 7 march 2011. while omnibus i deals with the alignment of implementing measures which do not fall under the 'comitology' regime, this proposal, known as 'omnibus ii', consists of aligning all other existing decision-making procedures in commercial policy legislation to the regime of delegated or implementing acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the granting of delegated powers for the adoption of certain measures. the purpose of this amendment is to finalise omnibus ii and to align all other existing decision-making procedures in commercial policy legislation with the regime of delegated or implementing acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures. this is to align the existing decision-making procedures in commercial law with the regime of delegated or implementing acts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text adopted by the european parliament on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures. it aims to make the technical measures established on a transitional basis sustainable. it is essential to ensure better visibility for this sector with stable and sustainable rules. this is the aim of this text.
in writing. the common fisheries policy lays down rules aimed at conserving resources, including organisms which have not yet reached their adult size. the positive results of the adoption of local technical measures based on scientific advice justify the extension of those rules and their adjustment in the light of the realities of climate change and the evolution of certain species. that is what this text proposes. i vote for it.
in writing. the european parliament has received four reports which reinforce the consideration of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of these four cases, with some nuances. the gallagher report proposes the extension of technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources to ensure that the manner and place of fishing activity meet the criteria of sustainable development. it therefore pays particular attention to the minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh sizes of nets and areas and periods of closure of fishing.
in writing. although the practice has been banned in the european union since 2003, spain and portugal had a derogation allowing them to remove shark fins from fishing vessels. in march 2012, the european commission requested the withdrawal of this derogation. the european parliament has acceded to the european commission's request and voted to finally ban the practice from the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 on the removal of shark fins from ships. i strongly condemn the practice of finning, which involves cutting off the fins of sharks on ships before dumping them at sea, which has been officially banned by the european union since 2003. however, the complex system of removing fins within a 5% ratio between the weight of the fins and that of the carcasses does not allow for a simple control of the legislation. in this respect, i support the commission's proposal to make the method of requiring the fins to remain attached to the carcass mandatory in order to combat finning effectively. this will reduce the number of great white sharks and help to preserve the species, which is increasingly under threat.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which proposes to end the derogations which until now allowed certain fishermen to remove shark fins from vessels before discarding the carcass at sea. these barbaric fishing techniques, banned in the eu since 2003, must be banned as cruel to sharks who are thrown into the sea alive without their fins.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i want to make it impossible to cut the fins off of sharks and throw their bodies into the sea. the living animal is then condemned to sink to the bottom and die there. this practice is problematic from an environmental point of view (threatening the survival of certain species), from an economic point of view (a huge waste of a potential food source) and from a moral point of view (unnecessary suffering of animals). there is no economic need for "finning", as there is a market for shark carcasses, even though they are thrown into the sea for lack of space. however, the current regulations do not work properly: many infringements have been reported. it seems to me important to correct the shortcoming in the 2003 european legislation, which allows some fishermen to continue to use this technique. this practice is difficult to detect because shark carcasses and fins can be landed separately in different ports. it is therefore necessary that the sharks are landed whole. we must make the legislation clearer and stricter so that this practice is no longer possible.
in writing. shark finning is the practice of fishing for sharks with the sole purpose of cutting off their fins and thus supplying the asian market, which is very fond of this fish. for many years, the european union allowed 15% of shark fin imports to asia. finnish fishing was banned in the eu in 2003. however, exemptions have been granted to certain countries to allow them to continue this activity. the purpose of this report was to allow the continuation of the derogating measures. in total opposition to these practices, i voted against this report, as did the majority of my colleagues. the failure to adopt this report means that from now on, sharks will have to be landed with their fins 'naturally attached to the body'.
in writing. while europeans do not traditionally cook shark, asians are particularly fond of its fins - which can cost over $50 a pound. the fishery for this animal, whose presence at sea is necessary to preserve the balance of the marine ecosystem, has been regulated, in particular with a view to ensuring the conservation of its species. yet the current rules are too easily circumvented by fishermen, and shark stocks are declining: according to the international union for conservation of nature (iucn), more than 25% of all pelagic shark species are threatened, of which more than 50% are large pelagic ocean sharks. action is therefore urgently needed to ensure the conservation of this species by ensuring better compliance with the rules in force, which would also allow the european union to comply with its international commitments on the protection of sharks. that is the spirit of this regulation, and i support it.
in writing. i voted in favour of a ban on the cutting of shark fins on board ships. the practice has been banned in the eu since 2003, but some exempted fisheries in spain and portugal are suspected of using 'finning', which involves cutting the fin and throwing the shark's flesh into the water. the report therefore proposes that all fishermen should be obliged to cut their fins only after landing. this debate is a perfect illustration of the need to establish a genuine european fisheries control policy. this practice of 'finning' is unacceptable, but it has not been demonstrated to exist in europe. however, in the case of doubt, it was necessary to leave no room for such practices. faced with the failure of the control, the european parliament is forced to resort to a complete lack of derogation, which will not be without consequences for the professionals. the challenge now is to ensure that the issue of european fisheries control is dealt with more effectively. in particular, the uniformity of controls will have to be promoted and the resources allocated to this indispensable instrument of fisheries policy will have to be increased.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to revise the legislation on the practice of 'finning', i.e. removing the fins of sharks from fishing vessels. it was already prohibited by council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 of 26 june 2003. however, article 4 of that regulation introduced an exception which de facto allowed 'finning'. this resolution is a means of putting an end to this barbaric practice of making soup in asia. because the remainder of the shark's body has less commercial value, the living shark is often thrown overboard, its fins amputated, unable to move to oxygenate its gills, and thus slowly suffocates to death. today, 73 species of sharks, which play a vital role in the life chain, are threatened by overfishing. i am therefore pleased that all the amendments seeking to reinstate derogations have been rejected because it is now proven that they have been used to circumvent the legislation. at a time when bluefin tuna legislation is proving effective, it is time for everyone to show responsibility towards species that are actually threatened.
in writing. i voted in favour of tightening the rules on shark finning on board ships. the current rules allowed for derogations which did not guarantee compliance with the prohibition of the cruel practice of dumping live sharks after removing their fins. while the fins are the main ingredient in the popular asian soup, the rest of the meat is less sought after, and the temptation to take only the noble part and discard the rest of the carcass is great and encourages overfishing of an animal whose many species are endangered. however, while the obligation to land only fins attached to the body of the animal should facilitate controls, i remain convinced that the lack of resources allocated to such controls - on this issue but also for other species - remains the central problem in the area of overfishing, to the detriment of the environment and the overwhelming majority of fishermen who do their work with seriousness and courage and are faced with unfair competition that breaks all the rules.
in writing. child abduction is morally wrong and has serious consequences for children and their families. the hague convention on the subject provides the legal means to combat this crossborder scourge. this text seeks to allow eight new countries to accede to the convention and i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. in view of the increase in the number of international child abductions, which goes hand in hand with the increase in the number of binational marriages, i supported the request made by the european parliament to see 8 decisions on accession of third states to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. these decisions are essential to expand the possibilities for finding rapid positive outcomes in the face of child abductions. the council must therefore proceed without delay to the conclusion of this process.
in writing. this text is an appeal by the european parliament to the member states in the context of the revision of the international telecommunications regulations (itr) at the world conference on international telecommunications to be held in dubai from 3 to 14 december. in supporting this text, i call for vigilance against any threat that could undermine the open and competitive nature of the internet. the internet must remain an area of freedom and openness and that is the whole point of the european parliament's vote.
in writing. telecommunications are at the heart of a number of issues: not only have they become one of the pillars of our growth, but they also touch on sensitive areas, such as the protection of our privacy. for these reasons, i support the ambitions set out in this resolution: telecommunications regulation must be fair and realistic, and this implies in particular the guarantee that its development is open, participatory and respects the principle of neutrality.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to clarify the european parliament's position ahead of the doha conference which will end on 7 december. i supported this resolution because it is balanced and reasonable. particular attention was paid to the risks of carbon leakage which would harm the competitiveness of european companies. the european union is a leader in environmental matters. it must remain so, while allowing its economy to adapt and ensuring that these efforts are also shared by third countries.
in writing. global warming has been gradually and simply removed from the political and media agenda for many months. yet, more unanimously than ever, international experts have only confirmed their most pessimistic fears about climate change. the two degrees of increase that we were hoping to avoid by the end of this century seems to be an obsolete objective. we can only regret it. the european union, at the forefront of the environmental fight, must redouble its efforts and its teaching at international meetings. in this sense, the doha conference will be a new meeting place. but let us not be naive, i think it is essential to bring up the question of a carbon tax at the borders of our continent in order to prevent any distortion of competition for our european industries which cannot unilaterally assume ecological commitments.
in writing. by voting for this resolution, we wish to reiterate that we retain strong ambitions for the doha climate conference. the union must continue to play a leading role in this area, as there is an urgent need for action. i am particularly in favour of developing our climate diplomacy. the european union must remain a pioneer in this field, but it must not be satisfied with that: it must be a leader. and for that, she has to learn to speak with one voice, if she wants that voice to carry.
in writing. i am in favour of this resolution because, after copenhagen, cancun and durban, we must absolutely avoid leaving this conference once again frustrated and dissatisfied. the european institutions must have a greater say in the negotiation process if we are to achieve tangible results. this resolution repeatedly mentions climate diplomacy and the importance of speaking with one voice. the climate issue must be addressed in a transversal way, including through industrial policy: the effects on industry and how industry can play its part are an absolutely essential aspect of these negotiations. we cannot be the only ones to take action, at the expense of our economy and while our main partners continue to pollute. we must ensure that the major polluting countries ratify the second commitment period of kyoto: until we have a legally binding agreement for all the major economies, we will not move forward. it is also important to emphasise that climate finance must be able to come from a variety of sources: the role of the private sector is not to be dismissed. we need to be able to combine economic growth and climate management.
in writing. after durban, this new climate change conference must be an opportunity to translate past commitments into practical application as soon as possible. promises are no longer enough, we must act. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of this resolution, to raise the bar and pursue the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, in the interests of the european citizens. it is also essential that the major industrialized countries agree to renew the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of 2012. the resolution also highlights the need to help developing countries, which are often the first to be hit by natural disasters, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions without increasing their structural vulnerability. finally, from a european point of view, it is in our interest to take part in this process, given the positive impact that sustainable development could have in terms of new jobs, growth or a reduction in energy dependence.
in writing. this resolution supports a binding international agreement on climate change that respects the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. it called for ambitious targets in line with the ipcc studies and for enforcement mechanisms to be set up. it stresses that the so-called 'developed' countries must provide the so-called 'developing' countries with the necessary means to adapt to and combat climate change, in addition to the aid already provided. it also advocates a gradual phase-out of fossil fuel subsidies. i support all those recommendations. i therefore vote in favour of this text, although i regret that, as always, it is being designed in the context of an enlarged carbon market and not outside this harmful mechanism, the limits of which the text itself recognises.
in writing. as the doha summit begins and the kyoto protocol expires at the end of 2012, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on all states to increase their actions to limit global warming. current pledges to combat climate change fall short of the measures needed to meet the target of limiting global average warming to 2°c. it is crucial that a new international treaty with more ambitious objectives is ratified and that all countries step up their efforts. in this context, we call for the eu to set a target of reducing its emissions by 30% by 2020, we stress our support for the inclusion of aviation in the european ets, and we call for the issue of emissions from the international shipping sector to be addressed swiftly. unfortunately, it is likely that no new legally binding international treaty will enter into force before 2020, leaving a vacuum after the kyoto treaty expires at the end of 2012. this must be avoided at all costs, and i call on all signatory states to agree to a second commitment period for the current protocol.
in writing. the 18th united nations conference on climate change will be held from 26 november to 7 december 2012 in doha, qatar. it is part of the continuity of the major international environmental meetings in durban (2011) and rio+20 (2012). i supported this resolution because it is a road map for the european parliament delegation to the conference, which will have to work towards a legally binding international agreement. it also stresses that the union must lead by example in honouring its commitments and showing ambition in mitigation and financing and that, therefore, it is the duty of all eu institutions to engage in intensive climate diplomacy in the run-up to the conference. it also highlights and proposes ways of solving the problem of financing, which is more relevant than ever in this period of crisis. finally, it recalls a principle which i believe is essential: we must move towards a sustainable economy which takes account of the environment throughout the production cycle.
in writing. with this resolution, the european parliament, on the eve of the doha conference on climate change (cop), once again expressed its views on the issues related to the fight against climate change and the extension of the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of december this year. parliament expressed particular concern at the latest scientific studies indicating that global warming could be more rapid and more pronounced than expected. can the european union set an example by first honouring its commitments? what about the adoption of binding commitments and actions to reduce co2 emissions by all member states? scepticism is warranted when we know that the commission's objectives are for 2050. i have nevertheless voted in favour of this resolution, considering that the proposed measures are still in the right direction. more generally, it is regrettable that the cop is content to wait until 2015 to take the necessary steps to commit to a determined fight against climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is a reminder of the positive aspects of the european union's enlargement policy. as the prospect of a third country joining the eu is a major motivation for deep reforms, it is important that enlargement policy remains clear, if not clearer. this call from the european parliament should enable the european commission to consider improvements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the enlargement policies and criteria and the european union's strategic interests in this area. i believe it is essential to establish the copenhagen criteria as the fundamental basis for the enlargement process. the report also calls for better control by the european commission at all stages of the accession process. i also support the new negotiating approach for future negotiating frameworks which gives priority to issues related to judicial and fundamental rights as well as justice and home affairs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which clarifies the criteria for enlargement and the strategic interests of the european union. the union must be clear about its enlargement policy and third countries must understand what rules to follow and what requirements to meet in order to become potential candidates.
in writing. this report is distressing. if the criteria for membership which you advocate had been met, and in particular the criteria for the prior settlement of disputes, turkey would never have been allowed to negotiate and cyprus, which it occupies militarily, would not be a member state. but at the end of the day, it's a fluke. because if i understand the report correctly, enlargement has become a policy in its own right, almost self-sufficient, and supposed to compensate in some cases for the failure of diplomacy or the political instability of an immediate neighbour. it is more like a leap forward, which has always preceded the strengthening of brussels' powers by a new treaty. and also to a kind of hope that there is a critical size that would make the europeanist utopia "too big to fall and to fail". the only idea that deserves any consideration is the proposal for an 'associate member' status. but i fear that in the mind of the rapporteur this status is more for switzerland or norway than for turkey.
in writing. while the emphasis on human rights and greater participation of civil society is welcome, the report is nonetheless based on respect for the copenhagen criteria, namely the establishment of 'stable institutions guaranteeing the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities'; 'a viable market economy and the ability to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the union'; 'the capacity to meet the obligations of eu membership, including the objectives of political, economic and monetary union'. voting in favour of this report would therefore be tantamount to implicitly or explicitly supporting these economic and social policies which are devastating for the people. on the contrary, i voted against this report because of the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report enlargement policy and criteria eu strategic interests in this area it is important to meet the copenhagen criteria to ensure the credibility and effectiveness of the enlargement strategy. the commission must maintain and intensify its monitoring of progress in the accession process. the european union's capacity for integration must be assessed from the outset and properly considered in the commission's 'opinion' on each potential candidate country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls simple principles which should continue to guide the work of the union in the context of enlargement. i support in particular the definition proposed by the committee on foreign affairs, to which i belong, of the capacity for integration. this is the essential counterpart to enlargement and it is important to take it more seriously. we also wanted to point out that failure to respect the basic social standards common to the eu constitutes a form of social dumping which harms european businesses and workers. in other words, it is a call for the widest possible dissemination of european values and their integration into the legal systems of our neighbouring countries. finally, this resolution highlights a point which i believe is essential: the eu must rethink its communication policy to accompany enlargement, which must be more effective and transparent.
in writing. i voted against this report on the policies and criteria for enlargement of the union. the report is based on compliance with the copenhagen criteria, which incorporate the objective of 'a viable market economy and the ability to cope with competitive pressure and market forces at home'. the main objective of european integration has been stated, and i am not going to support these policies, the consequences of which are becoming more and more evident. i also denounce the hypocrisy of this report, which states that 'enlargement facilitates respect for human rights', which is the poor relative of the copenhagen criteria and especially of their follow-up after accession. if so, how do we explain the impunity enjoyed by mr orbán's government in hungary? i regret that the sanctions mechanism for violations of human rights, as provided for in article 7 teu, is totally blocked by the member states, that its implementation is the sole responsibility of the council and that the latter needs unanimity to do so, which makes the provision totally inapplicable in fact. it is intolerable to expect the applicant countries to respect human rights when it is impossible for the member states to do so.
in writing. in view of the pressing situation, the european parliament called for an end to the violence between the two sides. i supported this measured text which fully supports the two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both entities and an independent, democratic and viable state of israel and a state of palestine.
in writing. every day, images from gaza and israel remind us of how much this part of the world is wounded. and every day, too, the desperation of no solution takes deeper root. the resolution of this conflict is therefore an absolute and daily emergency for the whole world. israel's security must be guaranteed and a palestinian state must be established. and so the only possible way, the one for which the european union must weigh its weight, is the two-state solution. the recognition by the un general assembly of the observer state status is a first step in this direction, as it can open up new perspectives. provided that the two sides return to the negotiating table and resume direct peace talks as soon as possible.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because it strikes a good balance in condemning the serious acts of violence between the jewish state and hamas. the cessation of rocket fire is an imperative that cannot be negotiated. terror is not politics and hamas must understand that. but in the same way, if israel's right to protect itself cannot be questioned, the idf must have more restraint when it retaliates. the blockade of the gaza strip has now lasted too long. tel aviv must loosen the grip on the narrow strip of land. it is counterproductive from a security point of view and puts the palestinians in an intolerable humanitarian situation.
in writing. i welcome the fact that this joint resolution reaffirms its support for the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders and supports the palestinians' request to gain enhanced non-member state status at the un on 29 november. but there are several problems with this text: while it rightly condemns the firing of rockets by palestinian groups, it does not at any time condemn the assassination of hamas military leader ahmed jaabari and the massive attack by the government of mr netanyahu. worse, he blames the palestinians for the situation and merely calls on mr netanyahu to take "proportionate" action. the text supports the lifting of the blockade of gaza, but only if there is "an effective control mechanism to prevent arms being smuggled into gaza", thus justifying the blockade in the name of israel's security. in the current electoral context in israel, this joint resolution constitutes unacceptable support for the criminal policy of the outgoing rightwing government. i abstain in order to encourage the position proposed for the un meeting on 29 november.
in writing. i supported this annual report, which aims to express the views of the european parliament on the implementation of the european security strategy in the context of the csdp (common security and defence policy). the european parliament calls for this policy to be strengthened so that the european union can assert and assume its responsibilities at global level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the csdp is a key tool in the european union's crisis management. the report proposes several innovative solutions to enhance csdp in view of the many obstacles to its implementation, such as the reluctance of member states to cooperate more closely. in this sense, i support the idea of strengthening crisis management structures and developing the european union's civil and military capabilities more effectively.
in writing. in a geopolitical context that has changed dramatically in recent years, the eu must seize its chance to assert itself as a global political actor. decline is not an option: we must build a europe of security and defence that is both strong and ambitious. the report particularly stresses the importance of our satellite capabilities in the defence of the union. it is necessary that gmes and galileo be considered as critical infrastructures, given their importance for our future and security.
in writing. the european union is currently engaged in 14 civilian or military missions abroad. they are the first steps towards a europe of security and defence, long desired by all those who believe that europe, as a major economic power, cannot remain a diplomatic dwarf for long. but they are first fruits that do not yet announce obvious advances, because europe on the big issues of the world, and the conflicts are of those, difficult to find its way and to speak with one voice. even though everything - our economic weight, our democratic tradition, our diplomatic history, our vocation for balance and dialogue - calls for the union to be more involved in these most serious issues. and it is because they are among the most serious that we are obliged to move forward by setting clear defence priorities: sufficient material and human resources to act more quickly and more effectively; strengthened coordination of the diplomatic and military resources of the member states; consistency of analysis and action in our relations with international institutions such as nato. in this context, the development of a white paper on eu security and defence, as requested on several occasions, is more necessary than ever.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this text which calls for the effective establishment of a defence europe. at a time when national defence budgets are being slashed, pooling and sharing our capabilities seems to be the best response. to do this, europe must support and strengthen its defence industry, and the european defence agency must then assert its role in this area. it is time for all european countries to show the will to equip the union with real capabilities to meet the geopolitical challenges we are facing. nato is a forum for intervention, the european union is another. the union must show its unity, its independence and its responsiveness when the 27 consider it necessary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the common security and defence policy because it provides a relevant overview of the union's record in this area and the challenges we must prepare to face together. it is important not to allow a strategic decline of europe to take place. the european union has the instruments to achieve real ambition for our security and defence. as the report indicates, the european union must preserve its capacity for military, but also civil, economic, humanitarian and commercial intervention in the face of new situations arising in the world and sometimes on the very margins of europe. i believe that parliament is thus making a clear appeal to the member states for a stronger commitment to the common security and defence policy, which alone can maintain the strategic weight of a europe beset by budgetary difficulties in a world of multipolar dynamics.
in writing. the purpose of this report by my colleague arnaud danjean is to express the views of the european parliament on the implementation of the european security strategy in the context of the csdp, both on developments in the past year and on those to come. the report describes the developments in our strategic environment, the obstacles to the positive development of european defence cooperation, but also makes proposals to improve the current system. i strongly believe in the need for a european defence policy, and that is why i voted in favour of this report, as did the majority of my colleagues. a strong europe inevitably requires economic and political coordination, but it also requires coordination in defence matters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the report presents the environmental developments and conflicts that are taking place at europe's borders and affecting european security. the eu should develop its civil and military capabilities and implement concrete measures to respond to strategic developments and changes.
in writing. this report is in line with the submission to nato advocated and endorsed in the lisbon treaty. it called for increased military spending and the development of liberalised public defence procurement and public-private partnerships in europe. if the supremacy of the un charter is preserved, that is the only positive point. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to assess the state of play of the use of mutual defence and solidarity clauses between the countries of the european union. these provisions define relations between the member states from the point of view of defence and the conditions of solidarity in exceptional circumstances. the european parliament calls for clarification of several aspects, in particular the relationship of these clauses with the north atlantic treaty.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mutual defence and solidarity clauses of the european union: political and operational dimension. i support this report which, in addition to drawing a distinction between mutual defence and mutual assistance, states that member states are obliged to provide aid and assistance by all means in their power to a member state which is the object of armed aggression on its territory. i also support the flexible approach to triggering the clause advocated in this report and urge the member states to optimise coordination and prevention in the field of security and defence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pascu report. in the light of the innovations introduced by the treaty of lisbon, i believe it is necessary to give new impetus to the debate on european defence policy. i note that the report states that member states are obliged to provide aid and assistance by all means in their power to a member state which is the object of armed aggression on its territory. i welcome the emphasis on flexibility, synergies and the importance given to all new types of threats, such as attacks in cyberspace.
in writing. the european union is a union based on solidarity. this solidarity must be demonstrated when our partners are facing crises or are the victims of aggression. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which clearly sets out this ambition. member states are obliged to provide aid and assistance to another state which is the object of armed aggression on its territory. the text calls for the establishment of a permanent crisis response system based on existing instruments, and not neglecting any type of threat (cyber, energy, pandemic).
in writing. the lisbon treaty provides for solidarity clauses in the event of, for example, an attack on a member state or destabilisation of a state. sexy at first. but imagine a country whose economic situation is catastrophic, with the government being forced by international organizations to adopt policies that would drive the people into poverty. angered by unemployment, wage cuts, and tax pressure, citizens would increase demonstrations and strikes. some would be tempted by withdrawal from the union, others by partition of their country. the government could not maintain order due to lack of resources, having made drastic cuts in its budget. to maintain itself in power and to be able to pursue the policy dictated by others, it would play one of the clauses of the treaty. the european police forces would then be sent to the area, with the power to replace the local police forces completely. am i out of my mind ? i believe that some countries in the union are not far from this type of situation. and the core of the european repressive force already exists: it is called eurogendfor. i will not lend my hand to the creation of legal texts that allow the european technocracy to oppress and repress the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mutual defence and solidarity clauses of the union which distinguishes between the two clauses of defence and mutual assistance. the report recalls in particular that member states must assist a member state which is the object of armed aggression on its territory.
in writing. i appreciate that this report reaffirms the primacy of the un charter by recalling that the union or its member states may only use force if legally justified in the light of the un charter. that's the only good thing about him. the rest is just alignment with nato, a call for specialisation within that organisation and for member states to increase their military spending in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. this text on the eu's defence and solidarity clauses therefore enshrines the eu's subordination. it subordinates the defence of eu citizens to the interests of the united states of america. i vote against it.
in writing. under the cover of so-called mutual defence and 'solidarity' clauses, the european parliament calls on the eu to commit itself further to european defence policy. the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) teu) provides for an 'obligation' to respond 'by all means' in the event of armed aggression against a member state, which goes beyond the nato mutual assistance clause, as unarmed attacks will also be affected. the solidarity clause (article 222 of the feu treaty) opens the way for military intervention within the european union, in particular in the event of a terrorist attack or natural or man-made disaster. can social unrest and strikes be considered "man-made disasters"? this report favours military logic at the expense of peaceful logic, and even merely civil defence measures outside and inside the union. it is in particular pushing for increased militarisation and armament in the eu. such an incitement is at the very least inappropriate in view of the bellicose tendencies of some member states and at a time when, ironically, the eu has just received the nobel peace prize.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, the main objective of which is to establish comprehensive cybersecurity at all levels of the european union and, if necessary, a cybersecurity and defence strategy. cybersecurity threats are by their nature cross-border and therefore require a european-wide response with the support of member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on defence and cybersecurity because i think it proposes important initiatives such as the creation of a cyber coordinator post for the eu or the possibility of invoking the solidarity clause in the event of a serious cyber attack against a member state. in 2007, estonia was the first country in the world to suffer such an attack, which was then led by russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kelam report, which rightly stresses the importance of a comprehensive and coherent approach to cybersecurity issues. in the current context of globalisation, the european union and its member states have developed a vital dependence on the security of cyberspace. i support the rapporteur's proposal to create a post of eu cyber coordinator. i also support the possibility of invoking the solidarity clause in the event of a serious computer attack against a member state.
in writing. the threats of the digital world are not limited to the world of the internet and networks: they have tangible consequences for our economies and our daily lives. these threats are increasing in number, increasing in danger, and they know no borders. it is therefore urgent that the european union adopt a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the defence of cyberspace. i have committed myself to ensuring that provisions on the creation of specialised judicial clusters and on the training of members of judicial and security institutions are included in this report. i believe that they are essential to ensure both the repression and the deterrence of attacks against our cybersecurity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that we adapt our infrastructures to the challenges of digital technology. this report addresses these concerns and seeks to put in place a genuine eu cybersecurity and defence strategy, which we are sorely lacking at the moment. cybersecurity challenges must not be ignored and we must be able to act together: it is important to improve coordination and action within the union. we also need to have a better understanding of the threats, by better assessing the dangers to our information systems and infrastructure. as independent hackers and those hired by major powers such as china increase their attacks, we must be able to take the lead and react immediately to any attack on our digital systems. member states should develop and coordinate national strategies for the security and defence of cyberspace. finally, we must also deepen our cooperation with our nato partners and the united states to increase the resilience of our information systems.
in writing. the main objective of the report is to establish comprehensive cybersecurity at all levels of the european union (eu) and, if necessary, a cybersecurity and defence strategy at both eu and member state level. while today's terrorist threat can be both terrestrial and virtual, it was important to strengthen our security in cyberspace which should not be considered secondary. i voted in favour of this report, which makes it possible to improve coordination and action within the union, to assess the risks posed by the various information systems in the union and to develop effective national strategies.
in writing. i voted for the report on the security and defence of cyberspace because we need to improve coordination within the european union in order to respond to the growing threat in cyberspace. member states should develop national strategies and find ways of coordinating them. it is also important to assess the level of threat to the union's systems and infrastructures.
in writing. the european parliament has been presented with a report on cybersecurity, which aims to better protect information systems from online attacks that could 'compromise the availability, integrity or confidentiality of data stored, processed or transmitted'. this report is a missed opportunity to demand better protection of the digital space. this report takes a very repressive approach. worse, because cyberattacks have been carried out against military organs, it even proposes military cooperation to combat cybercrime. it explicitly states that: "strengthening trust between the private sector, law enforcement, defence institutions and all other relevant institutions is essential in the fight against cybercrime". it also proposes 'public-private partnerships' which equalise all stakeholders, which is not without problems for all sensitive areas concerning the protection of personal data. i largely reject the concepts set out in this report, which only marginally takes into account the fundamental notions of net neutrality, freedom of expression and protection of personal data, and which forgets that "security" in this area must remain first and foremost under the control of the judge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of climate crises and natural disasters. it is important to consider climate crises as a threat to the stability of the european territory, and to take their prevention into account in our current common security and defence policy, but this must not generate a new administration.
in writing. under the guise of responding to climate crises, this report justifies greater military integration of member states under the umbrella of nato and its concept of 'intelligent defence'. it legitimizes nato as a force for climate security. it is a further militarisation of the member states and therefore of the corresponding expenditure. i would remind you that the first priority is to combat climate change by implementing ecological planning in european policies. i would point out that it is not by militarizing on the one hand and destroying public hospitals by means of absurd austerity policies that we will make people safer. this text, in the name of legitimacy, advocates wrong solutions to a real problem. i vote against it.
in writing. the report concerns the ongoing negotiations for an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of kazakhstan. i voted in favour of this text because the european union needs strong trading partners. the eu's trade relations with many countries have led to the implementation of many reforms, often improving the human rights situation in kazakhstan, which remains problematic.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan. the trade agreement, which is the subject of this report and provides a general framework for the current trade agreement, is intended to replace the current one and reflects the european union's increased attention to the integration of human rights clauses in its trade relations with third countries. while strengthening energy cooperation with kazakhstan and encouraging national authorities to align their legislation with that of the wto, the european union wishes to ensure a consistent strengthening of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. i supported the adoption of this report which will facilitate trade between the european union and kazakhstan, a key partner in the region. this is a real opportunity for companies in our regions, which see new business prospects. facilitating each other's access to our respective markets is a real opportunity for our smes, and we must seize it!
in writing. the european union's trade policy must be consistent with its overall objectives as set out in the treaty on european union and contribute to sustainable development, employment and social progress in europe and in partner countries, and to a globalisation that respects human and social rights. the jaakonsaari report on a new enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan highlights the serious shortcomings of the country in terms of democracy and respect for human rights, particularly with regard to workers' rights. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's trade policy was not distorted by the wto rules. i call on the european commission to follow the recommendations of this report in the current negotiations. if serious human rights violations are found, the european union should not hesitate to use all the conditionality clauses of this agreement and, if necessary, to temporarily suspend it. this conditionality is a fundamental requirement for a just foreign and trade policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan. the report is intended to replace the acp following negotiations opened in june 2011 with kazakhstan, the eu's first partner country in the region. the report calls in particular on the union to support kazakhstan in its reforms towards a strengthening of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. i abstained on this report containing parliament's recommendations on the negotiations for an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement (epc) between the european union and kazakhstan. eu-kazakhstan relations are based on a partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), which entered into force in 1999 for a period of ten years. in 2008, kazakhstan expressed its wish to sign a new agreement with the eu. the eu has acceded to the kazakh request while reducing ambition (no free trade agreement as long as kazakhstan is not a member of the wto, no visa facilitation agreement). reading the european parliament's report is quite astonishing, and we would like the european parliament to be equally vigilant with regard to all the countries with which the european union has partnerships. this is far from the case, as the negotiations that were initiated under ben ali with tunisia and under gaddafi with libya show. and we could also talk about the agreement we are discussing with colombia. while denouncing the dramatic situation in kazakhstan, i have therefore chosen, by abstaining, to denounce once again the double standards of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it recalls that in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, special attention should be paid to small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing. these high-potential fisheries are also characterised by specific vulnerabilities that cannot be confused with the industrial fisheries sector on the high seas.
in writing. as we will soon have to decide on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp), i wanted to give my full support to mr ferrera's report on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing. it should be noted that almost 80% of european fishing is carried out by small vessels (less than 15 metres); the reform must therefore take account of the specificities of the sector. the challenge is nothing less than the maintenance of european small-scale fisheries: through the modernisation of the ageing fleet, the encouragement of youth employment, but also through the use of the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) to help the economic and sustainable development of vessels and to support the sector in emergency situations. the objective of the cfp reform is to move towards more sustainable development, to work towards the conservation of fisheries resources, but we must not forget the economic and social objectives, particularly those of small-scale fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on small-scale coastal fishing, artisanal fishing and cfp reform. i support the proposal to develop a definition of small-scale fishing in order to create specific support mechanisms for this type of local fishing. it is necessary to adjust our action in order to exploit fully the potential of small-scale fisheries, to maximise their profitability and to ensure better local management, as part of the reform of the cfp.
in writing. small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries are essential to the dynamism of our fishing sector and must be taken into account in all their specificity by the next common fisheries policy. i welcome the large emphasis on the role of women in this text, because they are also key players in the fisheries sector. as in other sectors, their training must be encouraged, their role supported and strengthened at all stages of the chain of activity. the value of their work must be recognised: it must be reflected in their status, in their pay, in their protection.
in writing. 80% of european fishing is carried out by small vessels (less than 15 metres). it is therefore a key economic sector which deserves to be strengthened and encouraged. an efficient reform of the common fisheries policy must of course take account of the specificities of this human-sized activity, which preserves the balance and fisheries resources. in this respect, the report makes some very useful proposals. this is the case with recommendations for fleet modernisation, encouraging young people to get a job, and the use of the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) to help economic development and support a sector often faced with emergency situations. a good reform of the cfp is to strike a balance between sustainable development and economic development. small-scale fisheries, which are a european specialty, perfectly embody this balance.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which introduces guarantees of consideration for small coastal fisheries. europe must protect these small fisheries undertakings which help to promote our territory throughout the world and help to preserve noble traditions.
in writing. this report on small-scale and artisanal fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy is important in that it recalls the importance of 'small' fishing in the eu, in particular in terms of job creation and regional diversity, development, as well as the general refusal of the european parliament to privatise access to fish stocks, the need for a flexible definition of artisanal fishing (what is small-scale in the netherlands is not small-scale in greece), support for the use of environmental and social criteria for granting access to fisheries and market distortion. however, the final resolution put to the vote goes beyond a red line: it supports the possibility of subsidies to sudden increases in fuel prices. the green group is clearly opposed to such subsidies. so i refrained.
in writing. coastal and/or artisanal fisheries play an important role in the social fabric and cultural identity of many european coastal regions. the definition of coastal and artisanal fishing varies from one state to another. while small-scale fisheries can be both commercial and subsistence, they can serve both local consumption and export. i voted in favour of this report, the main objective of which is to find an acceptable and clear definition of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing and will allow for better recognition of these types of fishing in the reformed common fisheries policy.
in writing. this report supports small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing. it has the best ratio between the quantity of fish caught and the number of jobs created. it proposes measures based on the three pillars of sustainable management: ecological, economic and social. it rejects the mandatory application of transferable fishing concessions (tfp) to any type of fleet. i am voting in favour of this and i am pleased to see that several of the measures proposed by the left front have been adopted. i regret, however, that this text has no legislative value, as do many of the texts we vote on in the european parliament.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the reform of the common fisheries policy, we wanted to reiterate our position on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing. we must support this small fishery which, given its structural weaknesses and the significant increase in its production costs - particularly due to the rise in fuel prices - is being badly affected by the economic and social crisis. of course, financial compensation must be provided for through the european maritime and fisheries fund when fishermen are inactive for reasons of biological rest of the species. on the specific question of a possible definition of small-scale fishing, i agree with the wish of this house to move forward, taking into account the diversity of small-scale fishing practices between member states.
in writing. as a fictitious rapporteur for this report, i helped define small-scale fishing. this term is used repeatedly in the texts of the cfp reform, without the european commission's definition appearing appropriate. it has chosen a simplistic definition: at present, all vessels of 12 metres or less are covered. this, however, does not take into account the different realities of european fisheries. as small businesses have more difficulty accessing eu funding, this definition may be necessary to ensure more equitable access to eu funds. in this context, the classification of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the criterion of the employer on board seem to be more relevant parameters. even if the work in parliament has not resulted in a complete definition of small-scale fishing, this report is to be welcomed as a precursor to the debate on the financing of fisheries, and it was wise to recognise that there is not one criterion but a multitude of criteria for defining small-scale fishing.
in writing. the european parliament has received four reports aimed at strengthening the integration of sustainable development into the common fisheries policy (cfp). i therefore voted in favour of these four reports. the final report was presented by joao ferreira, a portuguese communist member of parliament (member of the gue-ngl). it aims to take better account of small-scale fisheries (in particular artisanal and certain types of coastal fisheries) in the reform of the cfp, its problems and its potential, in particular by advocating a lower fuel use per unit of fish caught and more selective techniques, which may have a smaller impact on living marine resources. it remains to be seen what will happen to these recommendations in other eu bodies.
in writing. adopted by the european parliament, this communication sets out the new guidelines governing the external dimension of the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp). i voted in favour of this text because it will contribute to long-term sustainability at the global level, while improving the governance of bilateral fisheries relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. i believe that it is essential to improve the governance of bilateral fisheries relations and to preserve long-term sustainability at the global level. our action must be guided by the desire to eliminate illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing for the long-term conservation of resources.
in writing. the european union (eu) is an important market for fishery products. however, its role goes beyond economic considerations. it is now a major player in all seas and oceans, thanks to its fleets, investments, bilateral agreements with third countries and its participation in the main regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). the aim of this report, which i supported by my vote, is to set out the new guidelines which will govern the external dimension of the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp). the main actions envisaged are the common strategy against illegal fishing, the strengthening of support for the development of international instruments for the conservation and management of fish stocks in the framework of the fao and the encouragement of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the rfmos.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, which sets out its new guidelines. it should contribute to long-term sustainability at global level to ensure the sustainable management and conservation of fisheries resources, while improving the governance of bilateral fisheries relations.
in writing. fish provide high-quality protein that is often needed by people in exporting countries. the eu is dependent on external supplies, despite having one of the world's largest fishing capacities. it must nevertheless endeavour to ensure the conservation of the resources of the exporting countries from which it benefits. it must also work towards sustainable fishing and the conservation of marine biodiversity worldwide. it must also ensure that the fisheries of the countries with which it negotiates comply with ecological and labour standards. this report proposes all of this and strongly opposes the eu promoting the adoption of transferable fishing concession schemes (tfcs) at global level. i am voting for it, but i regret that it has no real impact on the legislation and the negotiations conducted by the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lövin report, an own-initiative text in response to the european commission's communication on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in a context of cfp reform, where the rules for european fisheries are becoming increasingly stringent, this report aims to promote a sustainable fisheries policy outside the eu's borders, thereby protecting european fisheries from unfair competition, by proposing that fishery products imported into the european union be subject to standards that are closer to its own in terms of ecological and social sustainability. fish know no borders. the european union's efforts to exploit stocks sustainably will therefore be in vain if we do not ensure that these requirements are disseminated globally. by tackling the question of reform of the common fisheries policy in a global context, this text thus prefigures, in its own way, part of what will be the building block of the future cfp.
in writing. the european parliament has received four reports aimed at strengthening the integration of sustainable development into the common fisheries policy (cfp). i therefore voted in favour of these four reports. the third report aims to support the establishment of long-term criteria for 'sustainable fisheries agreements' (sfa) with third countries. despite a problematic reference to wto rules, the conditions are encouraging. the precondition for any agreement should theoretically be respect for human rights. any fisheries agreement is limited to a scientifically proven 'surplus', i.e. fishery resources in excess of the coastal state's catch capacity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text supported by the european parliament proposing changes to the organisation of the european elections to be held in 2014. among other things, we call for these elections to become an example in terms of parity and for the european commission to be truly representative of the composition of the european parliament from a political point of view. these measures should help to strengthen the representativeness and direct link between the european union and its citizens.
in writing. all opinion polls show a general lack of confidence in europe. one of the main reasons is the breakdown of the link between the actors of the european union and the citizens of europe. we don't know who does what, we don't know who decides and in whose name. it is the "citizen and democratic link" that we must restore. the european elections in 2014, a highlight of the democratic expression of the peoples of the union, will be decisive in this respect. the indispensable integration of the european union cannot be imagined without a powerful and real democratic counterpart. european democracy is first and foremost the fairest representation of opinions by means of proportional representation. the second is parity as an imperative principle. the recommendation adopted by our parliament to encourage european parties to nominate a candidate for the post of president of the european commission is another decisive innovation. these candidates would campaign on a project and thus give a face to european action. in a representative democracy, citizens decide through their representatives. involving them in the choice of the members of the commission is a full fulfilment of this founding principle.
in writing. in this resolution, the european parliament proposes to further europeanise elections and to further politicise the european commission. to date, only 40% of the citizens of the member states travel for the european elections, and european political parties or their candidates will not change that. the european parliament needs fair and balanced representation of all political tendencies, and it needs to be elected at national level. the european commission is becoming a superpower in europe, both executive and legislative. but it should listen to the two thirds of citizens who reject waste, bureaucracy and the euro-globalist ideology. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on this resolution because it does not take parity into account sufficiently. the text recommends that the member states should nominate a man and a woman for the post of european commissioner, which is a positive step. however, the requirement of parity in the preparation of the lists and the results obtained is not required. this is fundamental at a time when only 30% of meps are women.
in writing. the next deadline for the european parliament will be the 2014 european elections. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the president of the european commission should be chosen from the next majority that wins the elections to the european parliament. the new designation will strengthen the democratic foundation of the assembly and above all the legitimacy of the european commission, which is systematically accused of being disconnected from the realities on the ground and of being too technocratic. it was therefore important, a year and a half before this great event, that the european parliament clarify its position and expectations regarding this election, which is scheduled to be held from 15 to 18 may and from 22 to 25 may 2014.
in writing. the resolution on the 2014 european elections was adopted by parliament and i welcome it. i voted in favour of this resolution, which allows for important democratic innovations. first, in the 2014 european elections, it was proposed that each political family should put forward a candidate to run for the post of president of the european commission, which i hope will improve the visibility of the european elections and spark the interest of european citizens. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of the eu's reform. finally, in order to allow parliament time to elect the president of the commission in june, parliament proposed moving the date of the election to may instead of june. the resolution was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. in a motion for a resolution on the 2014 european parliament elections, we considered that european political parties should nominate a candidate for the post of president of the european commission. the aim is to give a truly pan-european vision to the next elections, which could hopefully encourage citizens to vote more. we also approved an amendment which states that as many members of the next commission as possible should be chosen from among the newly elected meps, in order to ensure greater political legitimacy for future commissioners. we also recommend that each member state should propose both a male and a female candidate for the next commission's college, in order to ensure equality between women and men, and as a member of the committee on women's rights i am particularly attached to this provision. finally, there is talk of holding the next european elections in may rather than in june, on 15-18 may or 22-25 may 2014, to avoid holding elections during public holidays or holiday periods in some countries.
in writing. this report calls on the european parties to choose a candidate for the presidency of the european commission. a new presidentialism, which aims to legitimize an organ with illegitimate functions. european citizens will not vote for a man or a woman, but for ideas they want to see carried. these ideas are the responsibility of the european parliamentarians, in their political diversity. they must have the power of legislative initiative, not the european commissioners. instead of trying to legitimize the existing lack of democracy, my colleagues on the right and the social democrats would be well inspired to work on the democratic overhaul of the european institutions and to claim the power that should be theirs. i vote against this charade.
in writing. this is a resolution first and foremost motivated by the role that the european parliament can play in the appointment of the next european commission and especially its president. it should be remembered that until now the european parliament had only approved (or disapproved) the decisions of the council of heads of state or government of the member states of the union. the lisbon treaty has gone through this and now it is the european parliament which will appoint the president of the commission on a proposal from the council. he's not sure that fundamentally changes things. but the majority of the european parliament has chosen to ask the "european political families" to propose candidates accordingly. the gangrene of presidentialism is therefore likely to have a major influence on the european elections; the choice of men (or women) is likely to prevail over that of ideas. furthermore, the european elections could take place in may 2014 (rather than june), which would bring us dangerously close to the municipal elections in france and shorten the debate on european issues. for these reasons i voted against this resolution.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, if i have counted correctly, this is the seventh emergency resolution we are going to adopt on iran since the beginning of this mandate. it is true that the human rights situation in iran is dramatic and that this country has the sad privilege of being the first of the countries with the highest number of executions in proportion to its population: 383 people have been executed in public since the beginning of the year, six collective executions since 27 october, and twenty public hangings on 7 and 8 november alone. the regime is trying to speed up the execution of nearly a thousand convicts by setting up a death committee. lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, who we awarded the sakharov prize, is on hunger strike and, yes, the killing of blogger sattar behesthi, who was tortured while in police custody, is dramatic. but i can't help but wonder what our resolutions are for. the number of executions in that country is on the rise, with a fourfold increase in the past year. wouldn't we be more useful if we also spent our energy on other subjects? we are not here, ladies and gentlemen, merely to give ourselves a clear conscience.
author. - mr president, this will be the third resolution on burma since the beginning of the year. the last date was september, and it was already about the violence in rakhine state and the plight of the rohingya, who have been put to the test by all the political forces in burma, including the friends of aung san suu kyi. the situation of the rohingya has not improved, it has worsened. we are even more determined towards the burmese authorities than we were in september, and i welcome that. the gue/ngl group has therefore joined this resolution and will vote for it, but i cannot help but wonder about the relevance of our emergency choices and above all about their usefulness. our duty and responsibility would be to choose more balanced emergency topics and not to wonder whether or not this would upset the authorities of this or that state. our resolutions must denounce the violations of human rights, and this in spite of the strategic, political and economic interests of the european union and its member states. it would have been more appropriate, in my view, to talk about the situation in kivu or the rule of law in turkey, in the light of the kurdish problem, at a time when a hunger strike by hundreds of kurds almost cost many of them their lives and when mr erdoğan is calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty.
author. - mr president, this is urgent and it is motivated by the alarming reports from several major ngos on the situation of migrants in libya. i think it's fair to say that in some ways, nothing has changed for migrants since the overthrow of muammar gaddafi, and for many of them, things have actually gotten worse. almost always suspected of being former gaddafi mercenaries, they are interned in camps run by former rebels. their living conditions are deplorable. there are countless acts of violence, torture against men, women and children, and there is no authority in libya today that can stop it. the european union, and in particular some of its member states, bear a heavy responsibility in the present situation, since they have been drawn headlong into a conflict without considering its consequences. i regret that nothing is said in the resolution on this subject, especially since the ngos do not fail to denounce this responsibility. if i were to take just one example, i would say that it is quite significant that it took four months to draw the consequences of the july elections and to put a new government in place. worse still, new agreements are being negotiated between the union, some of its member states and libya. there is no doubt that the issue of migration will be at the centre of the debate. at the very least, the european parliament should take a stand and refuse to make these agreements conditional on readmission agreements whose content is known, but it does not do so. the resolution is weak, at least from this point of view, and that is why my group will not vote for it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr posselt, you are in the habit of caricaturing my positions. i'm not interested in that. we were in the same negotiating meeting. you know my position. i've been a human rights activist for 30 years. i don't have a lesson to learn in this matter. i denounced the situation under gaddafi's regime as i denounced it under ben ali's, unlike others in this house. stop your insults! i will support the nascent democracy in libya and you are not going to make me move a line! i denounce the behaviour of the european union and its member states. i denounce the readmission agreements, which make aid conditional on development and democracy in those countries, and you will not make me change the substance of what i have said. your insults are not reaching me.
author. - mr president, the current situation of migrants in libya is a legacy of the past. we want to use this resolution to mobilise the new libyan government on the issue of migrants' rights, to tell it that we are keen and ready to help it to put in place new policies for migrants and asylum seekers, because this is a crucial issue. many human rights violations, including sexual violence against children and women, were reported by ngos on the ground. finally, to ensure greater protection of the rights of migrants, it is urgent that libya, which has successfully embarked on the path to democracy, finally put an end to the dictatorship's legacy by ratifying international conventions and, of course, the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to explain to you why the association agreement with central america deserves parliament’s consent. the association agreement will radically upgrade the eu’s relations with this region, with which the eu has a long-standing commitment reaching back to the eu’s support for the region’s successful peace process in the 1980s. the association agreement relies on three complementary and equally important pillars, namely political dialogue, cooperation, and trade, which reinforce each other. these are the right tools to support economic growth, democracy and political stability in central america. in the political pillar, both parties have committed to a set of shared principles. they include democratic government, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and regional integration. it will allow us to coordinate our positions, take joint initiatives in the international arena, and both cooperate and expand our engagement in fields of mutual interest. through the agreement we have also furthered the important political objective of strengthening regional integration in central america. this is a real region-to-region agreement. this ever-stronger political dialogue is complemented by the cooperation pillar, which will give us the opportunity to work as partners in the region. it offers an excellent opportunity to boost all aspects of our relationship, in particular security, which is one of the most serious problems with which the central american region is confronted. insecurity in central america threatens both states and citizens. through this agreement, we shall further ensure that the region can count on the eu’s support to address these challenges. finally, the trade pillar completes the picture of this comprehensive agreement. it will further cement our strategic alliance, which is based on common values and mutual respect and is a fundamental tool to address the root causes of many problems that our partners in central america face. through the trade pillar we help implement internationally recognised core labour standards and key multilateral environment agreements in central america, and we strengthen the role of civil society. it will bring new business opportunities on both sides, and is both balanced and ambitious. that is because we negotiated it keeping in mind the needs of economic operators on both sides and the different levels of development of our central american partners. on trade in agricultural products the balance is also right. there is liberalisation, but we have agreed to the shielding of sensitive products in both regions. given the relative size of the economies involved – central america’s gdp represents less than 1% of the eu’s gdp – most of the economic impact, at a macroeconomic level, will be on the central american economy. we expect central america’s total gdp to grow by over eur 2.5 billion as a result of this agreement. these direct consequences are complemented by an important indirect benefit. increases in central american exports to the european union mean that our partners become less dependent on their other trading partners. a more diverse ‘customer base’ for central american exports means more resilience in difficult times and more growth in good times. in my view these real economic and political results are more than sufficient reason for the european parliament to give its consent to this deal. with your agreement, mr president, i would like to react briefly to mr salafranca’s remark with respect to the long time lag between the conclusion of the agreement and the vote on ratification, which will take place tomorrow. this is completely unacceptable from a number of points of view. we have to negotiate with a country – in fact, with a number of countries and regions – and implicitly tell them that whatever they agree with us will only come to fruition in two years’ time. we are convinced that trade will – and should – contribute to economic recovery in europe, but that of course is not achieved by having another two-year period after concluding a deal that could be of interest to our economies. from both a political and an economic point of view, that simply does not make sense. so what is the problem? the problem is that these are very big agreements – 1000 or 1500 pages – and before you can actually start the ratification procedure in the council, and afterwards in parliament, you need these documents to be translated into all 23 official languages of the european union. that takes an enormous amount of time. on top of this you have to do the legal ‘scrubbing’ to ensure that in all of these languages every word has exactly the same meaning, which is an enormous task. furthermore, we do not have the people to do this, because everybody wants us to have fewer officials. so if you really want to change this situation, what you should do is very simple: ask the european commission to take an initiative with respect to this matter. but you should also realise that this will mean that if we want to have the agreement in place more quickly, we will have to restrict ourselves to a limited number of languages, for example the language of the country concerned and an official working language of the european union. if you do not do that, you will never shorten that period. that is a fact a life. so please help us with respect to this and set apart this linguistic question, which i think is very important, especially in the european parliament. we have to reach a compromise between being very strict with respect to languages and trying to be effective with respect to the deals that we are concluding.
mr president, i would like to protest against these remarks against multilingualism, which are completely off the mark.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on development, i have been asked to be rapporteur on an opinion which i oppose. today i call on you to vote against this agreement establishing an association between the european union and central america. this report confirms the profound imbalance in trade relations between the european union and our developing partner countries. this trade agreement, which promotes free trade for the greater good of our multinational corporations, ignores any reference to social and environmental standards. it does not include any conditionality in respect of human rights. this is unbearable. and above all, the agreement before us does not respect the principle of policy coherence for development. while 50 percent of the population in central america lives below the poverty line, the impact of the agreement on the most vulnerable is simply ignored. this is not acceptable. finally, i deeply regret the silence in this report on financial transparency. the study commissioned by our colleagues in the gue/ngl group on the free trade agreement between the european union, peru and colombia shows the impact of capital liberalization and highlights the risks associated with laundering money from drug trafficking. it's not responsible.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can tell you quite frankly that the green group does not think this association agreement with central america is a good thing. it will not strengthen regional integration. it will not allow a political dialogue to develop, but will, on the contrary, reinforce an unbalanced economic relationship. this is a real disaster for the agricultural world, which will not allow the development of food crops, but on the contrary will strengthen export agriculture, such as sugar cane or bananas, that is to say an agricultural sector identified by the european union as the alpha and omega of central american exports. worse still, the agreement leaves no room for manoeuvre for developing countries to devise their own development policy. it will certainly do europe's business. it will certainly do the european companies' business, with increased access to telecommunications, increased access to water, increased access to public procurement, increased access to mining, which is contrary to the interests of local populations as shown by the number of conflicts that are developing everywhere. there is a human rights clause, but it is not binding and there is no reference in the agreement to corporate social responsibility or to ilo convention 169 on indigenous and tribal peoples. what an irony in this day of human rights, after the signing of the association agreement by the european union - i remind you - the day after the third anniversary of the coup d'état in tegucigalpa, i called, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development, to vote against this agreement and, having not been followed up, i chose to withdraw my name from this opinion. today i call on you to vote against this agreement and against the agreement with colombia and peru, which is not even an association agreement. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call on you once again to ensure the consistency of the european union's policies. the association agreements must strengthen the regions concerned and not the other way around. as it stands, they are perpetuating a logic from another time, which i cannot endorse.
for the greens/efa group mr president, following the ethnic violence in the south of the country in june 2010 and the adoption of the new constitution, kyrgyzstan embarked on the path of democratization. the european union had rightly supported this poor country, which was badly hit by the economic crisis. kyrgyzstan was even selected as a pilot country for the european programme 'support for democracy'. since then, things have been getting worse. despite evidence of torture in prison, the supreme court sentenced 61-year-old human rights defender askarov, of the uzbek minority, to life in prison. his trial is tainted with many violations. askarov is a symbol of the failure of national reconciliation, which is essential for the stability and security of the country. there is total impunity in the south where the authorities themselves harass the citizens of the uzbek minority and block any reconciliation. nationalism and racism are taking root. parliament has blocked an independent website critical of the management of ethnic tensions. in the capital, pro-government elements assaulted the three brothers of alisher saipov, an independent journalist from the uzbek minority, who was murdered in och in 2007. at the end of november, a researcher from the international crisis group was arrested by local kgb agents after a visit to och. his computer and work equipment were confiscated. the kyrgyz kgb identified and interrogated human rights defenders who had met him. this is a very serious event and a violation of international conventions to which kyrgyzstan is a party. ashton, who visited bishkek shortly afterwards, did not comment on the sentencing of askarov or the harassment of human rights defenders. europe cannot continue to provide financial aid to the blind while the situation in kyrgyzstan deteriorates. my group will not vote in favour of this macrofinancial assistance. we must make our budgetary assistance to the kyrgyz republic conditional on concrete progress in the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the 18th climate conference in doha, i would like to say that a new stage has been reached. but i can't, because that would be lying to you. and if we expected little from this summit in qatar, there were no surprises. described as a consolidation step by the main negotiators, doha is, and will remain, one of the worst summits in the history of climate diplomacy; with a deal that doesn't live up to the emergency. this summit was not an environmental conference, perhaps an abc fair trade symposium on behalf of industry and the oil and gas states. it was anything but a conference to fight climate change. the only agreement that comes out of doha is that we will not decide anything until 2015, we will not commit anything until 2020. the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol is good news, but it will not be enough to keep us below 2 degrees. the planet and our societies are on a trajectory of 4 degrees of global warming, which promises a cascade of cataclysmic changes, according to the world bank. today the european union is awarded the nobel peace prize. if we are to live up to this distinction, it is time to begin the process of peace with our environment. i call on the union and its member states to regain a little ambition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just celebrated the 20th anniversary of the european single market, which has transformed the lives of 500 million citizens in two decades. by mitigating the effects of borders, reducing trade barriers, facilitating crossborder trade, encouraging mobility and freedom of movement, the internal market has brought states and peoples closer together in the european union. the obstacles remain numerous and the digital component of the single market is still far from reaching its full potential. the crisis does not allow us to lag behind where our competitors have largely developed their online offer. the obstacles are well known: insufficient legal and cross-border online services, lack of information and protection for internet users, inadequate payment and delivery systems, and widespread abuse. the measures proposed by the commission are ambitious and i hope we can move forward together. i am thinking in particular of the digital desert, in particular the transfrontier mountain and rural areas. digital commerce will only grow when the internet is accessible, fast and secure.
madam president, in france, an advertising campaign, which remained popular in 2002, said: 'antibiotics are not automatic'. the simplicity of the message is not to be confused with a key issue: reducing the consumption of antimicrobials, the overuse of which for years has led to a very worrying microbial resistance. the who has sounded the alarm. if the widespread use of antimicrobials continues, the rise of bacterial resistance could set us back a century, when even the smallest bacterium could be fatal. there are solutions, and there are many. the first is an effective and robust regulatory framework to preserve the efficacy of existing antimicrobials, using them responsibly, safely, at the correct therapeutic level, when they are absolutely necessary, over a specific period and at the appropriate dosage. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to one point: pointing the finger at a profession - veterinary medicine - by forcing a prescription-release decoupling of the medicine, may be counterproductive. this measure could kill the territorial linkage of care in rural areas, discredit practitioners who actively contribute to risk control and prevention, and increase traffic, whereas this decoupling has only partially proven successful.
in writing. in france, a famous advertising campaign in 2002 reminded consumers that "antibiotics are not automatic". the simplicity of the message is hidden by a key issue: reducing the consumption of antimicrobials, the overuse of which for years has led to a very worrying microbial resistance. the who has sounded the alarm that if the widespread use of antimicrobials continues, the rise of bacterial resistance could set us back a century to a time when even the smallest bacterium could be fatal. there are solutions, and there are many: the first is an effective and robust regulatory framework to maintain the efficacy of existing antimicrobials by using them responsibly, safely, at the correct therapeutic level, when they are absolutely necessary for a specific period and at the appropriate dosage. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to one point: pointing the finger at a profession, veterinarians, by forcing a prescription-drug dispensation decoupling, may be counterproductive. this could kill the territorial linkage of rural care, discredit practitioners actively involved in risk control and prevention, and increase drug trafficking, whereas decoupling has only partially proven successful.
mr president, the package you are proposing, under the guise of rationalisation and economy, is part of the race between the supporters of cognitive capitalism who want to privatize everything by patenting life, knowledge, know-how, scientific discoveries, ideas and even the words to express them, and those who want a world of openness and sharing where employees remain masters of their knowledge. you deny the universality of languages like spanish or french. you deliberately ignore the imperatives of national defense, which easily fills american or chinese financial funds and makes the american legislator laugh. your patent package does not in any way resolve the current plundering of our patents in the context of the dismantling of our smes and it will be a tool in the service of excessive privatization and the competition of knowledge and know-how, and the ultra-concentration of power and wealth that results from it. it goes against the very logic of the digital revolution.
madam president, as my colleagues have pointed out, europe has been waiting for a european patent for 40 years. we are at a historic moment and i would like to thank commissioner michel barnier. this patent is an indispensable tool for promoting innovation, for encouraging european companies to invest in research and development. the european economy needs invention and creativity because the figures we have are not encouraging. today, there are 60,000 patents filed in europe, compared with 72,000 in china and 224,000 in the united states. so we are losing a battle and we have to react. the package we are voting on is being criticized by some mps and university professors. they say that the regulatory framework we are putting in place is not perfect. i agree with some of their criticisms, but we cannot be held back by academic discussions. what is important is the impact of this legislation on the european economy. unitary patent protection will divide the cost of filing a patent by six as we go from 30,000 euros to today's 5,000 euros. the patent will therefore become more accessible to smes and will strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. what is important is that we put in place a coherent system of unitary protection based on the proven practice of the european patent office and in compliance with the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on jurisdiction of 8 march 2011. what is important is that we finally overcome the difficulty of article 118 of the lisbon treaty, which requires unanimity in the council for the language regimes of new intellectual property rights. but given the circumstances, given the political and legal difficulties we have to face, this is the best result we could have achieved. i would therefore like to warmly congratulate mr rapkay, mr baldassare and mr lehne on their efforts, their patience and the spirit of compromise they have shown. let us give this new regulatory framework that is emerging a chance. let's see how it works. let's look at his strengths and weaknesses. the european legislator will always be able to make improvements or amendments to this system in the future. i would like to conclude by expressing my sincere hope that spain and italy will change their minds and participate fully in unitary patent protection, which is a great tool for growth and strengthening the internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago the commission presented the wto agreement as the end of the banana war and the negotiated price of eur 114 per tonne as the last concession it would make. but there was no legal certainty on the banana tariff, since the eu-colombia/peru and eu-central america agreements, which provide for a tariff of eur 74 per tonne, go much further than what was negotiated in geneva. given the importance of the banana sector in some of the outermost regions, these two agreements pose a real risk of destabilising their economies, which are not very diversifiable. while article 349 of our treaty acknowledges the handicaps and difficulties faced by these regions, i can only deplore the commission's inconsistency when, by multiplying free trade agreements, it sabotages its many investment efforts in the outermost regions. these are the reasons why i voted against the eu/colombia/peru and eu/central america agreements.
in writing. - i voted, along with a large majority of the parliament, in favour of granting macro-financial assistance (mfa) of eur 30 million to the kyrgyz republic, half in the form of grants and half in the form of loans.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. i am supporting this amf with 30 million euros, half in the form of donations and half in the form of loans, which will be disbursed in 2012.
in writing. the report endorses the submission of the kyrgyz people to the yoke of the troika under the pretext of macrofinancial assistance. i vote against it.
in writing. the energy star programme has led to the creation of a european label to identify office equipment that meets european environmental requirements. all these equipment are registered in a database. this agreement, which is of limited duration, has been renewed at european level and this text, which i supported, is a technical update to this new agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment. this report shall specify the technical amendments to the energy star regulation. i support this initiative which aims to maintain the necessary consistency with the energy efficiency directive.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which builds on an already successful programme: energy labelling of office equipment allows consumers to better orient their purchases towards environmentally friendly products and will allow them to save money. our partnership with the united states in this programme is exemplary, and i fully support its implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which renews for five years the energy star programme for the certification of office equipment. the european union maintains, with this agreement, the system of self-certification by manufacturers who approve such equipment before it is placed on the market. we must have a clear and effective procedure which benefits manufacturers and companies in the sector on the one hand and consumers on the other, while ensuring better protection of the environment.
in writing. i wanted to vote in favour of this text in continuity with my environmental concerns, specifically in the energy field. the report, which extends an existing agreement between the united states and the european union, will continue efforts to save energy in the tertiary sector through information and awareness-raising for users. office equipment (computers, monitors, printers, photocopiers, scanners, etc.) accounts for a significant share of electricity consumption in the tertiary sector. it is therefore important to take an interest in these equipment as well.
in writing. the scarcity of raw materials and the growing pressure from emerging countries to secure their supplies are making europe increasingly dependent on energy-exporting countries. by making our products more economical, we are tackling this dependence on our economies. we also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment. finally, energy efficiency allows for the development of innovation, which stimulates economic growth and creates jobs. i therefore approve this regulation, which is the union's way of tackling the energy efficiency of office equipment, such as our computers and printers, which account for a large proportion of total electricity consumption. but these are everyday necessities that have become hard to do without. energy efficiency is therefore of paramount importance. i also support the updating of the labelling and quality certification programmes for office equipment in relation to their energy efficiency, which is being carried out by this regulation, which now allows the citizen to buy with full knowledge of the facts.
in writing. like a large majority of the parliament, i voted in favour of this text, which gives an overview of the european single market and explores its future developments. the digital revolution offers our economy, our businesses and our citizens the opportunity to generate growth and jobs through the digital single market. however, the digital single market in the european union has not progressed as much as it could have, and we have not fully exploited the benefits of the digital economy. the text therefore calls for the issue to be fully addressed in order to adopt effective measures in the near future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the completion of the digital single market. the european union has just celebrated the 20th anniversary of the creation of the european single market in 2012. so if we want to give our economy the necessary impetus to support the creation of the european digital market, we need to exploit more the advantages offered by the digital economy. accelerating the deployment and uptake of ultra-high-speed internet for businesses and individuals or creating reliable and cost-effective payment systems can help make our single market more competitive. i am all the more aware of the importance of the installation of very high-speed broadband because i am the promoter of it in the department of l'oise and in particular in my canton.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to exploit all the advantages offered by the digital economy in europe. i agree with the rapporteur that small and mediumsized enterprises are important for growth in europe. i am pleased that this report lays the foundations for a more competitive europe through common sense measures such as the promotion of ict and innovation.
in writing. i fully support the clear ambitions set out in this report: a digital single market is less of a barrier to growth and a great tool to respond to the crisis. the internet is an increasingly important part of our growth: as we celebrate 20 years of the single market, it is urgent that europe seizes the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. the focus on smes is essential and i welcome their inclusion in this report: they are new outlets for our businesses, new ways of paying for our consumers, to make their lives easier and to strengthen our position in the global market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the european digital single market. as the world is rapidly moving towards a knowledge and services-based economy, it is essential that the european union has powerful and innovative tools to stay ahead of the curve and remain competitive in the digital sector. the completion of the digital single market therefore proposes a harmonisation of existing legislation within the union in order to meet our objectives of competitiveness, growth and job creation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution by our colleague mr echeverría, which presents a whole series of proposals to reduce or even remove the obstacles to a wider use of the digital single market. we are far from what is expected in this respect: for example, only 7% of internet users have already placed a crossborder order in the union. to reduce the reluctance to offer or make crossborder purchases, i support the proposal to introduce a 'european trust label', which could certify that a website complies with european law and its provisions on consumer protection. i am sure that this type of measure would help to foster confidence in online shopping. in addition, it is clear that more enforcement is needed where delivery or return procedures are lacking: concerns about delivery reliability or difficulties in returning an order are holding back about one in two people when shopping cross-border online, and many sites are currently not compliant in this respect. finally, we should not forget the need to complete the european regulatory framework for online and mobile payments.
in writing. we are celebrating 20 years of the european single market, which has transformed the lives of 500 million citizens in two decades. by mitigating the effects of borders, reducing trade barriers, facilitating crossborder trade, encouraging mobility and freedom of movement, the internal market has brought the states and the peoples of the european union closer together. the obstacles remain numerous and the digital component of the single market is still far from reaching its full potential. the crisis does not allow us to lag behind, where our competitors have largely developed their online commerce. the obstacles are well known: insufficient legal and cross-border online provision, lack of information and protection for internet users, inadequate payment and delivery systems, widespread abuse, insoluble litigation, and poor access in some territories. the measures proposed by the commission are ambitious and i hope that we can work together to achieve their practical implementation. i am thinking in particular of the digital desert, particularly the cross-border, mountain and rural areas. digital commerce will only grow when the internet is accessible, fast and secure.
in writing. when we talk about the single market, we know what it means: more flexibility, more liberalisation, more public-private partnerships and more competition. it's the same with the digital space as with everything else. what then of the necessary protection of personal data, support for smes, consumer protection and confidence building? public policy should always be guided by the public interest. in digital terms, this means: public broadband internet access services for all, including in remote and underdeveloped regions; improving legal certainty for consumers; and stimulating the free exchange of cultural and educational content online, while respecting copyright. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as did a large majority of the european parliament. it provides an overview of the situation of the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union. a special strategy should be implemented to address current shortcomings, such as lack of information and lack of capital to move up the gear, in particular to finance cross-border activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on financing trade and investment by eu smes: facilitating access to credit to help internationalisation. this report is a key step towards better integration of smes in the external market, recommending improved capacity for smes to enter the market and supporting better access to information and capital. in addition, i fully support the proposal to create an import-export facility as additional support for businesses, including special loans, export guarantees and export credit schemes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the zahradil report. i believe that the internationalisation of smes is essential for jobs and growth in europe. i welcome the establishment of effective trade defence instruments to protect these companies from unfair competition from third countries. i also welcome the measures to improve access to information and capital.
in writing. ensuring that our smes have access to finance should be a matter of course: they account for 99% of our businesses. so it is not just a priority, it is a necessity if we are to support those who are the backbone of our economy. reading this report will help us to understand how digital tools can be a springboard for their international growth. however, there is still a glaring disproportion between the importance of smes for our economies and their ability to make an impact on the world stage: only 13% of them export outside our borders. i therefore voted in favour of the measures in this report, because europe needs an ambitious strategy to facilitate their access to information and finance and to protect them from unfair trading practices.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 75% of private sector employment in the european union. but only 13% of them have activities outside the single market. in a context of crisis affecting the whole of the european union, this situation deserves to be corrected because it is an important source of growth for our economies. there is therefore an urgent need to improve the competitiveness of smes so that they can operate better internationally. this is both to provide them with adequate information and follow-up support and to facilitate their access to funding, which is currently sorely lacking. european programmes to help smes must also be more geared to their activities in third countries. it is also necessary for european smes to have relevant and up-to-date information on third country markets, for example by being put in contact with large companies already active abroad. finally, the european union chambers of commerce abroad must support european smes in their administrative formalities and legal procedures in third countries. the need to develop a comprehensive trade finance strategy to promote the internationalisation of smes is very much underlined in this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which promotes the competitiveness of our smes. it is now essential to give our smes all the tools to enable them to become more competitive in an increasingly competitive market. supporting this network of smes is to support the attractiveness and economic development of our territories. by adopting this text, parliament is showing that its role is to represent the interests of our citizens and economic operators by making their voices heard in the institutions. by facilitating access to credit to enable our smes to expand internationally, the european union is helping.
in writing. i was very impressed by mr zahradil's report on support for smes wishing to export outside the european union. it is true that it deals with crucial issues such as barriers to access to external markets and difficulties in accessing finance, but it overlooks a major issue: the euro and its overvalued exchange rate. it is difficult to overstate the damage that this ideological currency has done to the competitiveness of firms in all the member states except germany. companies whose efforts to be competitive have always been hampered by a too strong and penalizing euro. how much has this cost, not only in terms of jobs destroyed, but also in terms of jobs not created? i am also disappointed that the main means of financing smes is public-private partnership. what if we simply asked the banks, which the taxpayer has been bailing out for the past five years with hundreds of billions of euros, to do their job? the commission has exclusive competence in this area, so i am waiting to see if i can believe in its ability to really protect businesses against unfair practices and to promote access to external markets. so far, neither his goodwill nor his action have been well proven.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the financing of sme activities, which is a direct response to one of our major concerns in europe: the competitiveness of our enterprises and their internationalisation. the recovery of our economy must be translated into concrete actions for smes, which represent 99% of the total entrepreneurial fabric in the eu and two thirds of private sector jobs. that is why i believe that the response must be national and european, complementary and coherent. in europe, as the report suggests, support for smes should be financial by facilitating access to capital and strengthening dedicated programmes, notably the cosme programme which should be endowed with €2.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. it must also be reflected in the method and practices with administrative simplification and improved information flow through one-stop shops.
in writing. the report is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises that want to import, export and invest beyond the eu's single market. the european commission has found that only 25% of smes operate beyond the national borders of their country of establishment and 13% in markets outside the eu. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve access to information for smes on the subject and to improve access to capital by including special lending mechanisms. the introduction of this easy access to credit will enable our smes to export better and be more competitive.
in writing. european companies - and in particular smes - are having difficulty exporting and direct investment abroad from the eu has fallen considerably in recent years. this is due to a less vibrant entrepreneurial spirit in europe than elsewhere, but also and above all to a lack of information and funding available to companies for their internationalisation. smes are the backbone of the union's economy and should be the main focus of government efforts in this area. helping smes to invest and internationalise is a key issue for our economy, and i support this resolution which calls in particular for: - national governments to help smes through publicly supported export credits, without distorting competition within the eu; - the commission to ensure the development of 'business angels' in the union; - banks and other financial institutions to provide their sme customers with regularly updated information on available financial instruments; - the commission and the eeas to develop synergies to further strengthen the union's trade diplomacy in the world.
in writing. a realistic basic premise and pragmatic recommendations make this report a real roadmap for the european commission and the member states, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption in plenary. firstly, it is realistic, because it recognises that not all smes are destined to go international. at present, 13% of smes export outside the eu and 4% plan to do so in the medium term. above all, he advocates that smes first try exporting within the single market, before going beyond its borders. secondly, it is pragmatic, since it contains specific recommendations based on the demands expressed by smes themselves, particularly in terms of access to information and capital. for example, in the last two years, one third of smes that applied for a loan did not receive it or received less than they had requested. they can also obtain funding through the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the new cosme programme or one of the 300 existing public support programmes.
in writing. the eu is a major destination for many foreign investments, but on the contrary, the investments of our smes, which represent 99% of enterprises, abroad are becoming smaller and smaller: this diagnosis is severe and has been steadily worsening. the lack of financing, the opacity of credit offers, the mistrust and frivolity of our smes, although innovative, prevent them from opening up to the world. for this reason, i welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights a number of solutions to stimulate entrepreneurship, through easier access to both credit and information. the renewal of the cosme programme for the competitiveness of smes is excellent news in this respect, which i have supported and which opens up great prospects for our companies. the commission must also hear our call for the exchange of best practice, the networking of kics and the creation of a single point of contact. in the future, it will be important that these identified strategic avenues are at the heart of all trade agreements with our foreign partners, to defend our companies against unfair practices and to ensure the internationalisation of their activities, which is a driver of growth and employment.
in writing. in this interconnected world, the eu must have a strategy for new technologies in its external actions. i supported this text because it seeks to define the main lines to be adopted to ensure that both our fellow citizens and those of the countries with which the european union interacts can benefit from this new 'fundamental freedom'. human rights, the economy, competitiveness, governance and security are all issues that need to be addressed in the digital domain if the european union is to become a great power in the era of 2.0.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a strategy for digital freedom in the union's foreign policy. the report also stresses the importance of digital freedom, promotes the principle of technological neutrality and aims to ensure a free and accessible internet for all in the union. i believe that the european union can use ict to make its development policies more efficient.
in writing. in its foreign policy, the union is committed to ensuring respect for its fundamental values, and this means protecting freedoms in all areas and places, including the digital world. i voted in favour of this report because it sets out this ambition clearly and because it is accompanied by practical and innovative recommendations to ensure its implementation. among these, i particularly welcome its ambition to make information technology a key tool in our development work: it is an accelerator of transparency, good governance and education. we would be wrong to underestimate their potential, as these technologies will be the drivers of change for many of our partners.
in writing. recent events in the maghreb have shown the power of information flow on the internet. as promoters of human rights and freedoms we must assert the right for citizens to move freely on the internet. however, it is also our duty to promote the interests of the consumer and to protect him against the abuses that the internet allows. if a binding law threatens the liberties of citizens, reasonable governance is necessary. i believe that freedom and security are necessary: we must be able to allow access to information, but also establish cyber security for users. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. so to improve the effectiveness of our development policies we need to introduce technologies to guarantee the freedom of movement on the internet.
in writing. as we saw in the debates on the anti-counterfeiting agreement, which triggered a real civil society uproar before the summer, the european union must adopt as soon as possible a real strategy on digital freedom within the framework of the european union's foreign policy. and it is true that now the struggle for human rights has a strong technological dimension: digital freedoms must now be considered as fundamental rights. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that it will lead the european external action service, the european commission and the eu special representative for human rights to undertake a comprehensive and thorough reflection on the subject and then to propose clear and pragmatic guidelines.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the importance of digital freedoms. these freedoms, which are closely linked to the development of new technologies, must be promoted and defended in the same way as all other fundamental freedoms, and enjoy maximum protection, not only within the union but also in third countries, where it is known that control of the internet is often one of the most powerful means of repression, but also of combating regimes that suppress freedoms. just remember how important they were at the time of what has been called the "arab spring". the eu should therefore be particularly vigilant on these issues in the context of partnership agreements, including trade agreements, which it concludes, including where they affect certain aspects of copyright. the report also refers to the need to uphold the principle of technological neutrality and a pluralistic approach to internet governance, for which increased participation of civil society and cooperation with governments are important to ensure a free and accessible internet for all. so this report is a step in the right direction. as usual, it remains to be hoped that it will be taken into account by the other european institutions.
in writing. i supported this report in plenary because the adoption of this regulation will allow the concrete implementation of a new eu competence: investment. bilateral investment treaties, which were previously negotiated and applied by the member states, will now be negotiated and applied by the eu. this regulation will make it possible to organise the transitional period of a few years during which the 'european' and 'national' treaties will coexist. in order to ensure legal certainty for investments and investors, it is important that this regulation enters into force rapidly to provide a common framework for all european players in the sector. beyond the purely technical aspect of this regulation, it is also a concrete manifestation of the progress of european construction.
in writing. − in 2008, it was agreed to provide financial assistance to georgia. this aid was to be implemented in two stages, the first of which was in 2010. this text, which i supported, corresponds to the disbursement of a second tranche of €46 million, half as a donation and half as a loan.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on macro-financial assistance to georgia. since 2010, the first mfa assistance and the recovery of the georgian economy, the georgian public finances situation remains precarious. i therefore support the commission's proposal to grant new macrofinancial assistance of eur 46 million to georgia, subject to compliance with the principle of conditionality. however, the interests of local people and the respect of their land rights and their social and fundamental rights must continue to be safeguarded.
in writing. this report endorses the submission of the georgian people to the yoke of the troika under the pretext of macrofinancial assistance. i vote against it.
in writing. georgia is currently experiencing economic difficulties due to the financial crisis, with production falling and tax revenues declining. georgia has requested macro-financial assistance from the union, despite already receiving budget support of eur 37 million per year under the european neighbourhood instrument and in particular the eastern partnership instrument. this €46 million macro-financial assistance will take the form of two components: a maximum of 50% in grants and 50% in loans over 15 years. this aid is closely linked to the conditions laid down in a memorandum of understanding with the imf in terms of budgetary balance, the implementation of structural policies and the dismantling of public services. we know that chorus. this is therefore nothing more or less than a new austerity plan implemented in this country with the complicity of the eu, or even at its express request. we know the disastrous consequences in europe and elsewhere. i therefore voted against this report. the same procedure is used for kyrgyzstan.
in writing. i supported this text, which was widely adopted and aims to extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency. the agency was set up to deal with pollution caused by the erika oil tanker disaster and has been operational since march 2003. with this text we have extended its powers to include training of seafarers, the fight against piracy and new ways of managing the risks of marine pollution.
in writing. i support the amendment of this regulation, and i particularly welcome the inclusion of piracy in the scope of the european maritime safety agency, as requested by parliament. we have the means, including satellite, to better detect illegal maritime activities, and this data can be of great value in the agency's activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which extends the powers of the european maritime safety agency. the agency, which was set up following the sinking of the erika in 1999, plays a major role in the fight against pollution and piracy at european level. the text voted in plenary in strasbourg also strengthens maritime safety by improving the training of personnel working in ports and on board ships. a gender equality component has been added to the agency's board of directors to give women more room in this still very male-dominated environment.
in writing. this report strengthens and enhances the prerogatives of the esam, a structure which has a proven track record in maritime safety and pollution control. it is regrettable that ambitious proposals are not funded, and it will be up to the future budgets to meet the needs. i support this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of a proposal to update and extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). firstly, because it was imperative that the commission should have sufficient means of response to all types of threats that may exist in the marine environment. secondly, because the proposal strengthened coordination and cooperation between the various actors in maritime safety. coordination of disaster response is a factor in their effectiveness. the economy, environmental sustainability and human lives of the maritime sectors depend on it.
in writing. after lengthy negotiations on the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa), i welcome the adoption of this report, which was intended to answer two questions: what should be the tasks of this agency created after the erika disaster and how to carry them out in a tight budgetary context? the agency's experience and effectiveness in preventing and reducing pollution at sea have been demonstrated. our parliament, however, had to reduce its ambitions in the face of the council's refusal to increase the budget allocated to it, and therefore accepted a limited extension of the agency's tasks. the agency's main tasks were to combat piracy in european waters and to assist in the training of seafarers. it is therefore a decision that sets the stage for further discussions on whether the eu wants to make the emsa a reference operational organisation to manage all aspects of the fight against marine pollution and the response to maritime disasters. this question is part of the debate on how to do more with less in a context of increasing needs and threats.
in writing. for more than thirty years, the european union has been seeking a single patent for the community. previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a significant waste of time and money for businesses. this regulation defines the single european patent as applicable throughout the european union, and will apply from 1 january 2014. because it is essential, i supported this text which finally gives the single market its unique patent.
in writing. the introduction of a european patent, which has been the subject of debate for 30 years, should have been a major breakthrough for the european union. but there are serious negative points which have come to cloud the conclusion of the agreement on the so-called 'unitary patent'. to satisfy certain member states, the union is deprived of the management of patent disputes. a judicial system is being created outside the european system, governed by an international agreement to which the eu is not a party, and on which the european parliament will have no say. that is most regrettable. despite the changes made to ensure compliance with eu law, legal certainty does not appear to be optimal. what will be the practical interaction between the international patent court and the epc? that is why i voted against the rapkay report on the creation of unitary patent protection and against the lehne own-initiative report on the court system for patent litigation. my vote is not a vote against the european patent, but a vote of dissatisfaction with what has been negotiated. a genuinely european patent would have been much more satisfactory, both in terms of legal certainty and political credibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of a unitary patent. the idea was launched more than 30 years ago and is now being realised. while filing a patent in europe currently costs €36 000, it will now cost only €4725, a reduction of 80% in costs. the new system will not only be less costly for the inventor but also more efficient. it will thus ensure automatic recognition and protection of the patent in the 25 participating member states (except italy and spain). smes will no longer be obliged to apply for a patent for each national market they wish to enter. this unitary patent is a victory not only for european smes, which will allow them to be more competitive, but also for the single market as a whole.
in writing. i abstained. it is essential that europe encourages innovative minds at low cost and that patents are available to our smes, the engines of european growth. however, in the self-satisfied concert of the creation of this unitary patent, i would like to express some regret at the outcome of these long months of negotiations. the legislative procedure of codecision requires mutual respect between the two institutions, especially as we prepare for the new procedure of enhanced cooperation. the legitimacy of our institutions is a major issue. in this case the council, and in particular britain, took an unacceptable attitude. this is a real slap in the face to the european parliament. secondly, we have a unitary patent, but not a community patent in the strict sense of the term, nor the european title which the eu treaty allowed us. the regulation we have adopted is a reflection of today's europe: vague and intergovernmental! nevertheless, we will ensure that the community acquis is respected by this unitary court, starting with the non-patentability of living things and software.
in writing. the adoption of this text by the european parliament is a turning point that will allow europe to catch up with its competitors in the field of patents. today, a european patent is 10 times more expensive than an american patent. what we have voted today is the division of the european patent price by six. it means more innovation and more competitiveness for our companies. i particularly welcome the emphasis on taking smes into account, so as not to impede the activity of our companies by dissuasive costs. they will be the first to benefit from the reduction in patent filing costs.
in writing. after 30 years of waiting, europe has finally got a european patent. today's vote is a major step forward in the drive towards industrial competitiveness. in practical terms, inventors, companies - especially innovative smes and smes - will be able to submit a single application, whereas they have had to repeat the procedure in each of the member states, with the same additional costs of registration and translation. the agreement will raise the cost of patentability of an invention from an average of eur 32 000 to eur 4 725 in the long term. with this single patent, the protection of inventions in the union will be considerably strengthened, and the whole european economy will benefit. a lower cost patent, of course, means more patents, which in the international competition we know represents a decisive upgrade. today, 60,000 patents are filed in europe, compared with 172,000 in china and 224,000 in the united states. the european patent is a guarantee that we will catch up with the two world giants and regain our leading position in the knowledge economy. so this is a historic decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this fundamental text, which establishes a single european patent system. this will reduce the cost of protecting their innovations for companies, especially smes; the number of administrative procedures to be carried out will also be reduced and simplified. this legislation will undoubtedly encourage innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and more generally of the whole 'patent package' (report on the creation of unitary patent protection, report on unitary patent protection and report on the court system for patent disputes). after more than thirty years of waiting, the european union is offering its businesses an effective competitive tool. although europe is the world's largest single market, its industrialists had to file as many patents as national markets, thus limiting smes' access to the entire common market. the european union now offers protection valid throughout its territory. this patent is therefore equivalent to patents existing in other territories comparable to the european union and allowing research and innovation to be protected. i have supported this initiative from the outset by european commissioner michel barnier, who has promoted and completed a project almost as old as the european union.
in writing. the idea of offering protection at lower cost for inventions at the level of the european union is not necessarily a bad idea in itself. but the 'unitary patent' package as presented to us, despite years of negotiations, remains problematic. two important countries are not covered by this package: italy and spain. the use of enhanced cooperation leads to the creation ex nihilo of a specialised court with exclusive jurisdiction, composed of professionals in the field of intellectual property who have been promoted to the rank of magistrate, with the risks this entails for their independence, at least intellectual. their case law would be irrevocable. the link with the regulations in force, at national or european level, in particular the exemptions or limitations of rights (living organisms, software, therapies, etc.) is neither clear nor guaranteed. the future will tell whether the argument of the overall cost of a patent (instruction, validation, annual fees) is really relevant, since absolutely no model for fixing these costs, nor for an appeal to the new court, has been defined. all institutional actors must be self-financing. in an age of intense lobbying for software patents, attacks on internet freedom, and dreams of monopoly seed companies, none of this is trivial. i therefore voted against the rapkay report.
in writing. the current patent system in the european union is very expensive and highly complex, particularly in terms of translation and litigation. after 40 years of effort, we are now at the end of the road with the creation of a genuine european patent, the so-called 'unitary patent'. a simplified filing system with a single window for filing patents and a single specialised patent court will be established. these provisions will benefit inventors and strengthen the competitiveness of the european union. it shall apply from 1 january 2014.
in writing. after 30 years of delay, the european union has reached an agreement on the european unitary patent, which should help boost the competitiveness of european businesses. with the introduction of the single european patent, whose negotiations were concentrated on the seat of the court - the headquarters will eventually be in paris - and on the language regime, the administrative procedures will be considerably simplified. in practice, this means that the cost of filing a patent in europe will be divided by six. this is great news for our researchers and our companies, because in comparison, only 60,000 patents were filed in europe in 2011, compared to 172,000 in china and 224,000 in the united states.
in writing. this resolution creating a unitary patent will enable inventors in the european union to have a common and unified patent system. it was adopted by 484 votes to 164, with 35 abstentions. i voted in favour of this text because the new type of patent it will allow to be introduced will give a considerable boost to the competitiveness of our smes. it will be up to 80% cheaper and much more efficient, providing automatic protection for patented innovations in the 25 participating member states.
in writing. i have nothing against the sovereign right of member states to conclude enhanced cooperation agreements between themselves in the field of patents. however, as in our last vote on the subject, i had already abstained because of the lack of health and environmental guarantees, particularly as regards gmos and the patentability of living things. these reservations were not heard. i shall abstain only in support of the exclusion of the reuse of farmers' own seeds from the scope of this type of patent proposed in this text.
in writing. i voted against the draft european patent. i do not deny that the european patent will enable smes to protect their innovations at a lower cost throughout the european union. however, by agreeing to make almost everything patentable - biotechnology, software and so many other fields - by creating this unified european patent, innovation and creativity themselves risk being penalized, as well as their benefits to the public. these are the reasons why i rejected the text.
in writing. will europe reconnect with creation and invention? the 40 years of waiting have finally come to an end: a single european patent, which could encourage innovation and investment by european companies in research and development. of course, the instrument is not perfect. but it is progress, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises which currently do not protect their innovations, due to lack of resources and the current complexity of filing. the cost of the advance is undeniable: it will be divided by six (from eur 30 000 to eur 5 000 and valid in 25 member states). the simplification of the procedure is based on three main points: - the single window, which will make it easier for all firms; - the treatment of disputes by a unified and specialised court, which will avoid the multiplication of proceedings before several national courts; - the dissemination of scientific information for the benefit of all inventors in the union. i voted in favour of this text, which creates the framework. we now need to work on the operational arrangements so that we can give the first unitary patent to a very first european small and medium-sized enterprise, in early 2014.
in writing. after 30 years of negotiations, our assembly has just voted to create a single patent application procedure covering 25 member states. this initiative replaces the time-consuming and costly procedure which has been in force until now, which involved filing a patent 25 times after having it translated into the language of each of the 25 countries. european patent applications will now simply have to be filed in english, german or french, or translated into one of these three languages. i regret that our italian and spanish friends, who were unable to enforce the right to file this european patent in their own language, have stayed away from this cooperation, especially since we have demanded that the translation of the patent into one of the three languages be reimbursed to smes and small and mediumsized enterprises. the european patent is a considerable asset for our companies (the filing of a patent will cost on average 5000 euros against 30000 euros currently) and i am sure that our neighbours to the south will eventually adopt this concrete step forward, support for the knowledge economy and a growth vector.
in writing. for more than thirty years, the european union has been seeking a single patent for the community. previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a significant waste of time and money for businesses. this regulation lays down the rules on translation arrangements applicable to european patents with unitary effect. the proposal is based on the working languages of the european patent office, namely french, english and german. i supported this text because it maintained french as one of the three languages in use.
in writing. in these times of budgetary seriousness, we are aware of the need to reduce the operating costs of all, whether public or private entities, to the maximum. in europe we have a very particular challenge, which is that of translation. parliament is committed to ensuring that the wealth of european languages does not become an obstacle to economic wealth. i welcome the fact that this report places particular emphasis on the necessary protection of smes. i fully support the distinction between small and large companies when it comes to assessing whether or not a counterfeiter has been in good faith: small companies do not have the same legal arsenal as large companies, and it is therefore legitimate to strengthen their protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which preserves french as one of the three working languages of the european patent office. i regret, however, that italy and spain have made the language issue a stumbling block, preventing them from participating in the common patent mechanism.
in writing. i would like to denounce the fact that translations are no longer properly ensured in this institution. the explanatory memorandum for the amendments put to the vote is no longer translated, is it? we are no longer able to access the speeches of our colleagues translated into our own languages without a justified request. the resolutions proposed by the groups are not all translated into all the languages, as i have already seen in the resolution of my group on the human rights situation in the united arab emirates, which is still in english. not to mention the european commission, whose communications and website are mostly in english. i denounce this intolerable state of affairs. these are not acceptable working conditions and the information of the citizens is absolutely denied!
in writing. innovation is a key factor in economic recovery and competitiveness. in order not to miss the recovery, it is essential that we take measures to facilitate access to intellectual property protection for businesses, and especially smes. the number of patents filed in europe is much lower than in asia or the united states. the problem of patent cost and legal complexity are contributing factors to europe's innovation lag. i am convinced that simplification and lower patent costs in europe will enable our companies to compete with those in the usa or asia. i voted in favour of this report because we must work towards a strong economic recovery. its adoption is a means of putting an effective instrument in the hands of innovative firms to protect their innovations.
in writing. for more than thirty years, the european union has been seeking a single patent for the community. previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a considerable waste of time and money for businesses. this text, which i supported, provides that the seat of the court and the office of its president shall be in paris, while the administration shall be in munich. the court will hear cases in london for patents in chemistry and pharmacy, in paris for textiles and electricity, and in munich for engineering and mechanics.
in writing. the new european patent is destined to become one of the pillars of our competitiveness. for smes, which are the backbone of our economy, it is therefore necessary to ensure that its implementation is effective and fair. this is our ambition for our judicial system in this area. i am therefore particularly pleased that this report gives the sme issue the place it deserves, particularly as regards its cost implications.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a court system at european level for patent disputes. the mechanism is admittedly a bit complex, and it would have been preferable if all the litigation at first instance had been brought together in one place, in one city. but the fractionation of this litigation was the price to be paid for reaching a compromise agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on the european unitary patent, which will reduce the cost of a patent in the eu and make it more competitive against the big trading powers. the unified patent court will help to reduce litigation costs by eliminating the need for parties to initiate parallel proceedings in different countries.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european unitary patent, which has been considered by all as a necessity for decades, is finally coming to fruition. i hope that the compromise we have reached, based on closer cooperation between 25 of the 27 member states of the european union, will soon be extended to the whole union. this compromise on the unitary european patent will soon be a concrete step forward for the benefit of europe. the challenges are crucial to the industrial competitiveness of the european union. this new system will reduce the cost of patentability considerably and the associated administrative burden. the unitary european patent will thus help to stimulate innovation, facilitate the protection of intellectual property for smes and smes, and strengthen our research and development sector. this is a major piece of the single market: it is good news for europe and for growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on the european unitary patent, which will reduce the cost of a patent in the eu and make it more competitive against the big trading powers. in addition to being cheaper, the new patent should be more effective in protecting inventions. protection will be automatic in the 25 participating member states.
in writing. the introduction of a european patent, which has been the subject of debate for 30 years, should have been a major breakthrough for the european union. but there are serious negative points which have come to cloud the conclusion of the agreement on the so-called 'unitary patent'. to satisfy certain member states, the union is deprived of the management of patent disputes. a judicial system is being created outside the european system, governed by an international agreement to which the eu is not a party, and on which the european parliament will have no say. that is most regrettable. despite the changes made to ensure compliance with eu law, legal certainty does not appear to be optimal. what will be the practical interaction between the international patent court and the epc? that is why i voted against the rapkay report on the creation of unitary patent protection and against the lehne own-initiative report on the court system for patent litigation. my vote is not a vote against the european patent but a vote of dissatisfaction with what has been negotiated. a genuinely european patent would have been much more satisfactory both in terms of legal certainty and political credibility.
in writing. i would like to express my very strong doubts about this single european patent system, on the one hand about the legality of this proposal, and on the other hand about the fact that it will now be an institution such as the european patent office which will have a very broad power over the protection of intellectual property (ip). meps, by voting in favour of these reports, are handing over their power over ip to a non-european institution. in other words, they are giving up democratic control over such important issues as the definition of what is patentable. i voted against this proposal because we environmentalists are in favour of a unitary patent, but a patent whose granting depends on the eu institutions, thus ensuring respect for democratic rules. not only will patent actions be much more expensive, but some member states which restrict patents on living things at national level will be dispossessed by this new system. it is an intolerable attack on the rights of small farmers and the maintenance of biodiversity. how can we accept a carte blanche for the epo, whose practices are known to be more than inadequate, especially in the field of living things?
in writing. i abstained on all three directives forming the 'european patent' package because they incorporate amendments required by the council which reduce some of the positive aspects of the compromise reached with the european parliament. the creation of a single european patent is conducive to investment in research, development and protection of european industry. it was therefore important to close this 30-year-old case with an agreement that was the widest possible consensus. the council's removal of provisions limiting the effects of the european patent in the agricultural sector or on software, and the primacy given to decisions of the european patent office, limit this consensus. that is why i preferred to abstain rather than support a necessary but ill-finished text.
in writing. i deeply regret that the european parliament finally voted on the 'unitary patent package' without waiting for the court of justice of the union to verify the legality of the procedure. under the pretext of greater legal certainty and simplification of patent filing for smes and small players, the compromise reached with the council last november eliminates the main positive points that the european patent was supposed to bring in the agricultural sector (seed patents) or in the computer sector (software). the legal certainty announced is, moreover, only a decoy because of restrictions referred to the legislation of the member states and the challenge to the current protections of union legislation. moreover, parliament is giving up its powers in favour of bodies outside the community: a procedure for the granting and validation of patents is left to the european patent office, without control by parliament or the european court of justice, while a new court, set up by an international agreement between 25 member states, will have exclusive jurisdiction over all matters relating to patents.
in writing. the european union has concluded an association agreement with several central american countries to simplify trade relations and reduce customs duties. however, a bilateral safeguard clause was inserted to allow the limitation of the customs advantages granted, in particular in the banana sector. this will be implemented when a certain quantity is imported each year. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which preserves the integrity of our local producers without jeopardising our trade relations with the countries of central america.
in writing. bananas are an essential part of the culture and employment of our outermost regions. i welcome the fact that this report clearly states that it is essential to provide for effective safeguard mechanisms to combat excesses that may result from imports from third countries in this sensitive sector. with this safeguard clause, we are protecting our jobs, especially those of small producers. i particularly welcome the emphasis on taking account of working conditions. it makes these safeguard mechanisms really effective by ensuring full respect for labour and environmental law and the transparency of their implementation.
in writing. the community banana, mainly produced in the west indies, réunion and the azores, is the livelihood of thousands of small european growers. it faces competition from the dollar banana, produced in particular in central america at a very competitive cost. the forthcoming entry into force of the association agreement with central america will facilitate the export of dollar bananas to europe. it is therefore essential for the european union to have mechanisms to protect the european banana. the association agreement with central america ratified by the european parliament in december 2012 will therefore be accompanied by a specific clause allowing for a temporary increase in customs duties on central american bananas in the event of excessive imports causing serious damage to european producers. on this and many other issues, market opening requires a balanced approach that protects the interests of our producers. this is a welcome agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which introduces quotas for the import of bananas from central america following an association agreement between the european union and this region. although these trade agreements are desirable in order to strengthen our economic relations with third countries, it is vital that the union protects its agriculture when competition is not fair enough.
in writing. i voted against this report introducing a safeguard clause on bananas. safeguard clauses make it possible to temporarily re-establish normal customs duties or to suspend the process of tariff liberalization. this clause somewhat confirms the unbalanced relationship between the parties to the agreement, since the european union is the only one to have invoked a safeguard clause. the agreement is another example of the lack of consideration for the interests of the overseas regions. the clause will have very little chance of being invoked. nor will it be enough to protect the caribbean banana sector, a pillar of the economy, which will be exposed to competition that is difficult to sustain. finally, this vote must not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and more sustainable economy.
in writing. citizens rightly express great fear when the european union signs free trade agreements with other states whose commercial strength can threaten the activities of our companies, industries and farms. as a member of the european parliament, i am responsible for ensuring that these agreements, negotiated by the european commission, which has been given the mandate to do so, are realistic, pragmatic and consistent with our interests. these agreements allow the european union to increase trade opportunities and this translates into opportunities for our companies internationally. but the counterpart must certainly not be an opening up of the european market without guarantees and without reciprocity, which would then threaten our competitiveness. it is in this spirit that the eu has negotiated a bilateral safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism (in force until january 2020) to preserve our banana production, which is essential for the economic dynamism of the outermost regions. if an unexpected increase in imports causes a deterioration in the situation of european industry and employment or if the annual import volume is reached then the eu reserves the right to remove preferential customs duties.
in writing. the amendments put to the vote today represent a step backwards from those tabled in plenary last september. to accept this retreat would be to accept the pressure exerted by the firms chiquita, dole and del monte to increase their profits at the expense of local workers, banana producers in our french overseas departments and territories and our ecosystem. chiquita estimates that for every €10 reduction in eu customs duties, it pockets up to an additional $112 million. i am voting against this text because i want to denounce the complacent attitude of the majority of the inta committee towards the instigators of the coups d'état in central america.
in writing. i wish to abstain on the regulation on the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the eu-central america association agreement. this mechanism does not meet the expectations of producers in the outermost regions. however, in the event of any serious market disruption, it is crucial to have a mechanism to protect caribbean overseas producers. of course, if the system is not perfect, it is better to have it than not to have it.
in writing. the trade provisions of the eu-central america association agreement provide for the progressive liberalisation of trade in the banana sector. this sector is of crucial importance for the french overseas departments and territories. during the discussion of the agreement with my french colleagues on the committee on international trade, we made its defence our priority. in our amendments we have changed this regulation so that it can act as a shield against the massive imports from central america. i am satisfied with the provisions reached after our many negotiations and have supported the adoption of this regulation in the vote in plenary.
in writing. the european union has concluded an association agreement with several central american countries to simplify trade relations and reduce customs duties. with high growth rates, it is essential for the european union to develop a privileged partnership with the countries of central america. i voted in favour of this text, as did a large majority of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report establishing an agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and central america, on the other. firstly, the agreement aims at regional integration and the intensification of dialogue between governments, parliaments and civil society. this is reflected in the creation of a parliamentary association committee. i also support the trade aspect of the agreement, which aims to replace the current system with a system of reciprocal and gradual trade liberalisation. the eu must seize the opportunity of this agreement to remain the promoter of social rights, trade union freedom and freedom of expression.
in writing. i voted for the salafranca report. this agreement is consistent with european policy on free trade agreements and, while the benefits for each party are modest, they are real. i welcome the objective of regional integration and the intensification of dialogue between governments, parliaments and civil society. i also note that the report stresses that democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law must be respected.
in writing. this association agreement is an important step in strengthening our mutually beneficial relations with central america. i particularly support the emphasis in this report on the protection of geographical indications. this agreement will contribute to the achievement of our objectives in external action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strengthens the links between the european union and central america, particularly as regards political dialogue and economic relations. as the adopted text states, these agreements must of course be conditional on respect for human rights and the rule of law, which are fundamental values for europeans. this text will also make it possible to promote our local products better by facilitating their export to the central american market. the european union is thus showing its support for the products of our lands and is respecting its commitments to defend diversity.
in writing. i voted against this agreement because it only reinforces an unbalanced economic relationship in favour of the european union. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development, i have called on my colleagues to vote against this agreement. i am in the minority and have withdrawn my name from the report because this agreement perpetuates a logic of frenzied economic liberalism and a plundering of resources which we cannot support. the european union reduces regional integration to a customs union. the human rights clause is caricatured, it is not binding. there is also no obligation to consult indigenous peoples, as required by ilo convention 169, nor is there any mention of corporate social responsibility. in practical terms, this agreement will be a real disaster for central american agriculture: export crops will be favoured at the expense of food crops. the main beneficiaries will be european companies and large mining projects with disastrous consequences for local populations, the environment and the origin of countless social conflicts.
in writing. the european parliament has chosen to give its approval to the implementation of the eu-central america association agreement. i myself have decided to support this association which will be based on three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. i believe that the eu cannot defend its principles and values if they are not followed by action. it is difficult for the eu to influence countries and regions with which it has no links. i also believe that, in view of the serious economic and financial crisis europe is going through, it is in its best interests to increase its international outlets, and i am thinking here of the immense opportunities that the vast continent of central america represents for the automobile industry, whose sales have collapsed in recent years. for the banana sector, which could have suffered greatly from competition from these countries, a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism will be set up alongside this agreement. i understand the fears about free trade agreements, but it seems to me that we must also consider the economic and growth prospects that these international openings create for the eu.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to facilitate trade between the european union and central america, particularly microchips, coffee, bananas and pineapples, which are traditional exports. i voted in favour of this report and i welcome its adoption. it will save european exporters up to €87 million in customs duties each year. it will also increase the gross national income of the six central american countries in the long term. the agreement also includes clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue, in order to promote sustainable development, reduce poverty, and consolidate stability by integrating the central american region as a whole.
in writing. this report is a vindication of a free trade agreement negotiated with a coup regime and signed in the capital itself and on the anniversary of the coup against manuel zelaya in tegucigalpa on 28 june. this is in itself a symbol of what the european union is prepared to do to defend the commercial interests of certain multinational companies. the ratification by the european parliament of this agreement, which is a disaster for the peoples and for democracy, is faithful to the tradition of the european parliament. it should be remembered that the majority of this house has never considered it appropriate to denounce the coup d'état in honduras or the coup d'état in paraguay and that, on the eve of the popular uprising in libya, it welcomed the free trade negotiations between the union and gaddafi. i am voting against this text, which is a disgrace.
in writing. i wished to abstain on the european parliament's approval of the agreement establishing an association between the union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part, for two reasons. firstly, because this agreement poses serious problems for the socio-professional community in the outermost regions of the caribbean, and especially for banana producers. with a reduction in customs duties, caribbean overseas producers will indeed be in a difficult situation. the european union will have to help the outermost regions through its agricultural and cohesion policies. however, i did not wish to vote against this agreement, because even if it poses difficulties, it nevertheless creates a certain 'safety net' for overseas producers. in order to deal with any serious disturbances on the market, a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism are provided for. if the system is not perfect, it has merit in existence!
in writing. i voted against the report by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra submitted to the european parliament calling for the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and central america. this agreement, like the eu-colombia trade agreement voted on the same day, is focused on commercial interests and denies human rights. while the agreement will have very concrete consequences in terms of economic liberalism (liberalisation, etc.) and while we refuse to see the social and environmental consequences, the clauses called 'democracy and human rights' are only non-binding suggestions. this is not acceptable. the union's double standards in relation to latin america are totally unacceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the council proposal concerning the conclusion of the eu-central america association agreement. i believe it is imperative to link the commercial side of the agreement with cooperation commitments to strengthen the legal system, fight corruption and social inequalities. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement will open up new dynamic markets for our companies. i am confident that this partnership will bring renewed growth and confidence, and more intensive exchanges between our two regions.
in writing. the association agreement between the european union and six central american countries (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama) is not just a trade agreement. in addition to the dismantling of certain customs tariffs, which will be beneficial to the development of trade relations between the two regions, this agreement should foster the establishment of a genuine eu-central america political dialogue. regional integration of central america, consolidation of the rule of law, structuring of civil society and reduction of inequalities in these six countries are all objectives towards which this association agreement must aim. finally, it should be noted that, through this agreement, the european union, already the main provider of development aid to central america, will significantly increase the amount of its assistance. it thus reinforces our call for solidarity and our willingness to dialogue with central america.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and several central american countries (panama, costa rica, nicaragua, honduras, el salvador and guatemala) is the first regional agreement concluded by the eu. it goes beyond the simple commercial framework to include political dialogue and cooperation in fields as varied as democracy and human rights, the modernisation of the state and administrations, disarmament, the fight against terrorism, the environment and customs cooperation. when we examined the agreement, we were concerned that it might affect the production of the outermost regions of europe, particularly the french overseas departments and territories. that is why, together with my french colleagues in the committee on international trade, we have insisted on the need for a special safeguard and stabilisation clause for the banana sector. we have succeeded in obtaining a specific regulation and negotiating the terms of it through our amendments. that is why i voted in favour of approving this agreement.
in writing. the european union has concluded an association agreement with colombia and peru to simplify trade relations and reduce customs duties. however, a bilateral safeguard clause was inserted to allow the limitation of the customs advantages granted, in particular in the banana sector. this will be implemented when a certain quantity is imported each year. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which preserves the integrity of our local producers without jeopardising our trade relations with these central american countries.
in writing. while the trade agreement with colombia and peru was ratified by the european parliament in december 2012, safeguard measures for the european banana sector were adopted in the margins of the agreement. the colombian-peru free trade agreement will therefore include a specific clause protecting european banana producers, and in particular those in the french overseas territories. more specifically, if european banana producers suffer serious damage as a result of the opening of trade with colombia and peru, the reduced customs duties provided for under the trade agreement will be increased. this is essential to protect our european producers, since the union is the most important market for banana exports and already 72.5% of the bananas sold in the union come from latin america.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which introduces quotas for the import of bananas from colombia and peru following a trade agreement between the european union and these countries. although these trade agreements are desirable in order to strengthen our economic relations with third countries, it is nevertheless vital that the union protects its agriculture when competition proves to be insufficiently fair.
in writing. i voted against this report introducing a safeguard clause on bananas. safeguard clauses make it possible to temporarily re-establish normal customs duties or to suspend the process of tariff liberalization. this clause somewhat confirms the unbalanced relationship between the parties to the agreement, since the european union is the only one to have invoked a safeguard clause. the agreement is another example of the lack of consideration for the interests of the overseas regions. the clause will have very little chance of being invoked. nor will it be enough to protect the caribbean banana sector, a pillar of the economy, which will be exposed to competition that is difficult to sustain. finally, this vote must not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and more sustainable economy.
in writing. the amendments put to the vote today represent a step backwards from those tabled in plenary last september. to accept this retreat would be to accept the pressure exerted by the chiquita firms to increase their profits at the expense of local workers, banana producers in our french overseas departments and territories and our ecosystem. chiquita estimates that for every €10 reduction in eu customs duties, it pockets up to an additional $112 million. i am voting against this text to denounce the complacent attitude of the majority of the inta committee towards the supporters of colombian paramilitarism.
in writing. i wish to abstain on the regulation on the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the trade agreement between the union and colombia and peru. this mechanism does not meet the expectations of producers in the outermost regions. however, in the event of any serious market disruption, it is crucial to have a mechanism to protect caribbean overseas producers. of course, if the system is not perfect, it is better to have it than not to have it.
in writing. the european union has concluded an association agreement with colombia and peru to simplify trade relations and reduce customs duties. it is essential for the european union to develop a privileged partnership with these two latin american countries, which enjoy high growth rates. although the text was adopted by the european parliament, i abstained in this vote to send a message to the leaders of these countries about their people and the social and public health problems they suffer.
in writing. i voted in favour of a report on the trade agreement between the european union on the one hand and colombia and peru on the other. the agreement covers the abolition of customs duties, investment, public procurement and sustainable development services between the union, colombia and peru. if the union intends to strengthen its presence by granting economic advantages, the european parliament has ensured in particular that the agreement is conditional on compliance with the provisions on respect for human rights and the rule of law. a roadmap has been drawn up to step-by-step strengthen the judicial system to fight corruption more effectively. the protection of the environment and biodiversity must not be neglected. the eu will have to constantly ensure that this agreement does not allow for land grabs or the deprivation of the fundamental or social rights of local populations.
in writing. trade agreements concluded by the european union aim to increase trade relations with one or more states but also to contribute to the economic and social development of the partner countries. the free trade agreement with colombia and peru will facilitate access for european companies to very important markets, particularly in the automotive, services and public works sectors. but this agreement goes much further. it contains broad and binding provisions on respect for fundamental rights and democratic principles. as stated, failure to respect human rights and democratic principles would constitute a substantial breach of the agreement, which, in accordance with public international law, would give rise to the adoption of appropriate measures, including the possibility of denouncing the agreement or suspending it in whole or in part . parliament will have to pay particular attention to this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which improves the transparency of trade relations between the european union and colombia and peru. as the text adopted today makes clear, these agreements must of course be conditional on respect for human rights and the rule of law, which are fundamental values for europeans. this text will also make it possible to promote our local products better by facilitating their export to the colombian and peruvian markets. the european union is thus showing its support for the products of our lands and is respecting its commitments to defend diversity.
in writing. i voted against this agreement. in colombia, 90% of crimes against human rights defenders go unpunished, while in peru, it is estimated that more than 250 environmental conflicts, most often related to mining, are taking place. despite these critical situations and the opposition of civil society and trade unions as a whole, the european parliament has just voted in favour of an agreement which has no regard for human rights, labour rights and even less for the environment. this agreement will only increase the competition for raw materials, with catastrophic consequences for local people and their environment. the european parliament called on the two countries to unilaterally draw up road maps for better respect for rights. these are, however, only a trickle, since they are not binding. moreover, they are only a list of existing public policies which are known not to have led to any significant improvements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the trade agreement between the european union on the one hand and colombia and peru on the other, despite the strong protests of citizens concerned about the economic and social consequences of such an agreement. the european commission was responsible for negotiating this agreement, which had to respect a number of imperatives. the concerns expressed about the human rights situation in these countries are quite natural but should not underestimate the efforts made by these countries. in addition, the agreement contains a binding provision stating that respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is an essential element of the agreement and that in the event of a breach of these rules, the provisions and effects of the agreement may be suspended. i would add that following a written question to the european commission relaying these concerns, it was acknowledged that colombia and peru had made progress in the protection of human and labour rights and trade union rights.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to facilitate trade between the european union and colombia and peru. the agreement was conditional on both countries submitting binding roadmaps for the implementation of labour and environmental clauses. these guarantees were given by both countries and this enabled the report to be adopted. i voted in favour of this report because it will be beneficial to european exporters. the abolition of customs duties will save them eur 270 million a year. the agreement will also benefit colombia and peru, whose gdp will increase considerably. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive.
in writing. this report validates the free trade agreement negotiated with colombia and peru to the detriment of the other member states of the can, bolivia and ecuador, and in defiance of any respect for this regional organization. in addition to being harmful to the colombian, peruvian and european peoples and to the environment, it constitutes an aggression against the bolivian and ecuadorian peoples and their governments. i denounce the fact that such a text can be approved even though president santos is putting in place a law guaranteeing impunity for his military which the un commission on human rights has denounced. in the field of human rights, the union's only compass remains the guarantee of free and undistorted competition in the exchange of all goods and services. i am voting against this text, which is emblematic of the union's amoral aggressiveness.
in writing. i wished to abstain on parliament's approval of the trade agreement between the union, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, for two reasons. firstly, because this agreement poses serious problems for the socio-professional community in the outermost regions of the caribbean, and especially for banana producers. with a reduction in customs duties, caribbean overseas producers will indeed be in a difficult situation. the european union will have to help the outermost regions through its agricultural and cohesion policies. however, i did not wish to vote against this agreement, because even if it poses difficulties, it nevertheless creates a certain 'safety net' for overseas producers. in order to deal with any serious disturbances on the market, a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism are provided for. if the system is not perfect, it has merit in existence!
in writing. i voted against the report on the ratification of the trade agreement between the union and colombia and peru. this agreement will have dramatic consequences: liberalization of the financial sector in peru and colombia, which is tantamount to a dramatic setback in terms of anti-money laundering regulations (see the study by the centre for research on multinational corporations), liberalization of agricultural products, which goes against regional food sovereignty by endangering in particular the colombian dairy sector and the caribbean bananas (despite safeguard clauses), investment by large european companies in a regulatory framework that does not protect natural resources (appropriation by companies, especially water, land grabbing, etc.). moreover, the conclusion by the union of this free trade agreement legitimises the policy of the santos government, which is far from having broken with the human rights abuses of its predecessors. the impunity of the paramilitaries has not changed and half of the trade unionists killed worldwide are in colombia. a similar observation can be made in peru. i am very sorry that only a few socialist and green members have made the same choice as the gue/ngl group.
in writing. as the european trade balance deteriorates, the conclusion of a trade agreement between the eu, peru and colombia, which should allow the three parties to increase their gdp by 1% respectively, is a beacon of hope. in concrete terms, this agreement will open up new trade opportunities for our companies by guaranteeing them access to peruvian and colombian public procurement and service markets, and by removing the customs duties of these two countries on our industrial products. our exporting companies will thus save 270 million euros a year. in return, the eu will open its market to industrial exporters from peru and colombia in a reasonable way, in a win-win logic that will lift our three economies upwards, and ultimately stimulate production and job creation in our major export industries (chemical, automotive, pharmaceutical, construction and telecommunications). this vote is an illustration of europe's determination to no longer open itself to third countries without any compensation. in future, a simple principle must guide our trade negotiations: reciprocity.
in writing. i voted against the reports on the trade agreements between the european union, central america, colombia and peru. i am convinced that they will not have the miraculous effects for european companies that have been announced, even if their shareholders will benefit. however, i doubt whether they will have any impact on employment in europe. the commission's ability to activate the 'human rights' clauses, which this parliament is full of, is equally doubtful: it has always put free trade and finance above all other considerations. i voted in favour of the reports on the implementation of a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism for bananas. i did it in a hurry, knowing that our banana producers would suffer from these agreements, and that this clause would be little or not activated at all, like the one accompanying the agreement with south korea. it is temporary anyway, as if the conditions of competition could be balanced in a few years. unfortunately, brussels has no interest in these cluttered islands at the end of the world with exotic products. it has nothing to do with european preference, when the germans want cheap bananas. i think we must defend these little parts of france, including against brussels.
in writing. 2012 is the european year of active ageing. this report, which i supported, calls for better european coordination in order to better inform european citizens. it is essential to educate the population on the issues of ageing and to provide the key to ageing well. this will have a positive impact on both the well-being of these people and on public health budgets.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of age-related diseases in women, as part of the european year of active ageing in 2012. the fact is that older women in europe are more affected by debilitating diseases and disabilities than men of their age. in addition, cardiovascular disease affects more women than men. in this sense, a twofold strategy must be put in place: prevention and information must guide the action of associations, national and european institutions, the media, but also institutions at local level. i would also like to commend the epp group for its strong commitment to this subject.
in writing. i voted for the angelilli report on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. i believe it is important to inform the general public in order to promote virtuous behaviour to accompany active and healthy ageing for all. statistics show that despite their longer life spans, older women are significantly more affected than their male peers by debilitating diseases and the progressive development of disabilities. i welcome the emphasis on prevention and the involvement of all the actors involved, including associations and the media.
in writing. women are particularly vulnerable to the risks of social marginalisation, precariousness and poverty: nearly 75% of women over 65 live alone. ensuring that they grow old in good conditions requires action today: guaranteeing their equality in employment and pay, the right balance between their family and professional lives, is laying a solid foundation for supporting them in retirement. i support the overall approach of this report, which proposes, in particular, to adapt the age threshold for access to screening programmes. 2012 was the european year of active ageing: it will soon be over, but we are not stopping our efforts to protect our elderly.
in writing. two statistical elements are worth linking: the fact that women's life expectancy is 8 years longer than men's, which exposes them to chronic and disabling diseases and to gender-specific diseases, which deteriorate the quality of life, and the fact that women are more vulnerable to poverty and precariousness due to more discontinuous career paths. these elements dictate the course to be followed to take better account of the specificities of women's health. the first is information campaigns on the risks of ageing, falls, poor diet, lack of physical or intellectual activity. this is of course to prevent serious diseases such as alzheimer's, certain cancers and cardiovascular diseases, and to train medical and paramedical staff. it is also about raising awareness among health and social care professionals about the risks of isolation and abuse. it is also about going beyond the medical and social fields so that every citizen feels involved. following the deadly heat wave of 2003, governments set up public awareness and vigilance campaigns. they have demonstrated that solidarity is the best prevention.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen prevention and information on age-related diseases in people, and particularly women. with the ageing of the population in the union, it is important that the european institutions take measures to accompany these demographic changes so that european citizens are aware of the public health issues. this will raise awareness among associations, national and european institutions, the media and local administrations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the question of illness affecting older women has acquired a particular dimension, with a number of mutations that call for specific responses. more isolated, more often belonging to a disadvantaged group, victims of multiple discrimination, more affected than men by disabling diseases such as bone and joint diseases, with more smokers than in the past, older women, despite an increased longevity, need adequate support in terms of medical care in order to be able to lead an independent life and enjoy equal rights. information campaigns on the prevention and treatment of diseases, appropriate follow-up of cancer or osteoporosis are good examples of what is needed to enable women to cope better with active ageing. finally, the inclusion of these older women in society, by adapting certain facilities and increasing the number of activities in which they can take part, are all elements to be developed to help these people to face their loneliness and to remain autonomous, with dignity; i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. this report intends to make a number of proposals in the light of the increase in life expectancy, to enable healthy ageing for all through access to quality health care and preventive measures that help older people to remain independent for as long as possible. by increasingly taking this dimension into account, the eu is integrating the consequences of its ageing population. older women are significantly more likely than men to suffer from debilitating diseases such as cancer or alzheimer's disease, even at comparable ages. the eu must therefore work with member states and local partners to extend to the general public a prevention strategy aimed at promoting virtuous behaviours that promote healthy and active ageing. for this reason, issues such as access to medical services (complexity of systems, long waiting lists for specialists) are essential especially for the oldest patients, who are mostly elderly women, and are often isolated. this report is again a catalogue of good intentions, particularly in the context of austerity. i voted for this report, which favours the substance, without, however, having many illusions.
in writing. this report highlights the dangers of the growing threats of antimicrobial resistance. it affects both humans and animals and is a central issue in the european union's public health policy. i voted in favour of this text, which calls for a limitation of the use of antibiotics for animals for purposes other than curative.
in writing. the systematic use of antibiotic medicines is a real public health problem. it poses not only a health risk to europeans, by promoting the emergence of antimicrobial resistant strains, but also an economic risk, since the resulting infections cause billions of euros in additional health care costs. improved prevention and awareness-raising in this area and better guidance on the use of these medicines in human and veterinary medicine are therefore urgently needed.
in writing. resistance to antimicrobial and antiviral drugs is a matter of concern to the international community. who points out that the excessive use of antimicrobials leads to ineffective conventional treatments and compromises the control of the spread of infectious diseases. each year, 440,000 cases of multidrug-resistant tb are detected. in the eu, norway and iceland, 25 000 deaths per year are directly attributable to antibiotic-resistant bacteria. this calls for global action plans, as antimicrobial resistance is the result of complex and interconnected factors. the application of a rigorous precautionary principle therefore requires the implementation of preventive and information measures and an active research policy that ensures we are one step ahead. by focusing on prevention through monitoring mechanisms and information sharing, encouraging better hygiene regulation, stricter control of prescription authorisations - prescription-only requirements, rigorous reporting of resistance cases, and limiting the use of antimicrobials in medical and veterinary care, the eu will be able to effectively support the policies advocated by who, oie and fao. europe with its research know-how must mobilise its efforts to create new antimicrobial agents and improve the quality of treatments.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to respond to the decline in the effectiveness of certain antimicrobial medicines in the face of the large-scale spread of resistant strains. there is an urgent need to reduce waste in marketing and use of ineffective medicines in order to ensure better health protection for european citizens. the savings made should enable the development of alternative medical treatments that respond to mutations in infectious bacteria.
in writing. the massive and unwise use of antibiotics in both humans and animals has led to the rapid emergence of resistant bacteria. combined with the shortage of new antibiotics on the market, this poses a serious threat to public health, given the increase in the number of cases of drug failure. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which calls for urgently strengthening measures to reduce the consumption of antibiotics in europe. however, i regret the adoption of the second paragraph of paragraph 16, which calls for the decoupling of the prescription and dispensing of antibiotics by veterinarians. the impact of such a measure in the fight against antimicrobial resistance has not yet been assessed globally at european level, although some member states such as denmark have already adopted this scheme. in addition, the ban on prescription-only dispensing would have a very negative effect on veterinary networking in rural areas and would lead to trafficking of medicines without any medical follow-up. we must trust the ethics of european veterinarians who are responsible health professionals, who respect the plans for antibiotic resistance and who work at their level for the rational use of antibiotics for technical, biological, ethical and economic reasons.
in writing. the european parliament has today sent a strong signal by adopting an ambitious report to combat the growing threat of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. the action plan launched by the european commission for the period 2011-2016 must be a strong incentive for member state governments to put in place the appropriate measures. but progress towards these goals has been slow and uneven. this emergency is becoming more critical every day, as 25,000 deaths a year in europe are caused by these tenacious microorganisms, leaving doctors helpless. we need to address two major problems: the inappropriate use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine and the backlog of innovation in the development of new medicines. unfortunately, there is no barrier to the spread of multi-resistant bacteria. antibiotics are not drugs like any other, and this awareness must be shared by all if we are to defeat this silent epidemic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it touches on a fundamental issue of public health. our main objectives are to combat the overuse of antibiotics, identified as the main cause of this growing resistance, and to address its worrying health consequences, which are estimated to be responsible for at least 25 000 deaths a year in the european union, figures which the medical profession considers to be underestimated. the resolution calls for urgent action to this end, mainly through the development of new antibiotic treatments, the more prudent use of existing ones and the improvement of animal husbandry.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rosbach report on the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance in order to better control the use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine. the ability of certain microorganisms to develop resistance to certain antimicrobial agents has the effect of rendering some drugs ineffective. therefore, their use should be better regulated.
in writing. in europe, antimicrobial resistant bacteria cause about 400 000 infections and 25 000 deaths a year. while the commission's action plan on antimicrobial resistance is moving in the right direction, it is not enough to stem the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance internationally, and i believe that efforts to tackle this threat must be greater. that is the spirit of this resolution, which i support. the text calls for a focus on prevention - improving hygiene in hospitals, and improving the diagnosis and prevention of diseases in both animals and humans. it also calls for the right to prescribe antibiotics to animals to be restricted to veterinarians and separate from the right to sell these treatments in order to avoid an incentive to prescribe, and for antibiotics to be available to humans without a prescription - as is currently the case in some member states. the text also recommends that research into new antibiotics be better coordinated within the eu and at international level. i agree with those ideas.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, parliament was right to stand firm on principle. he was helped by the understanding of the cypriot presidency and the facilitating role of the commission. europe will have a budget for 2013 and is honouring the commitments it made in 2012. all the community programmes, which had been frozen since october, are now being rescued from suffocation: erasmus is saved, research is saved, aid for adaptation to globalisation, which affects more than 5 000 employees in seven different countries, can finally be paid. i congratulate the three rapporteurs. but, as the commissioner has said, we must learn the full lesson from the crisis of payments in which we found ourselves at the end of the year. the solution that was finally found in pain respects the treaties and the financial regulation to the letter. it betrays the spirit of it. it was as if the 2012 budget, which we adopted a year ago, had only set the commitment appropriations for the year; the actual amount of payments was renegotiated at the end of the year and we are deferring payment of the balance to 2013. the union cannot run a budget deficit. it cannot, either, because that would be the same as ending a budgetary year with debts. this crisis could have been avoided if each of the budget ministers had real-time information on the payment requests submitted by the other administrations in their own country. it is necessary to allow for the verification of these applications, which are sent to the commission, upstream and, downstream, to ensure a regular phasing of actual payments to avoid the periods of suffocation that have been experienced several times this year. that is why, in the text of the declarations annexed to the 2013 budget, we attach particular importance to the establishment of permanent consultation on payments between the managing authorities. i hope, on behalf of parliament, that the irish and lithuanian presidencies will take this very carefully and we look to the commission for diligence in working with them effectively.
mr president, with this draft budget we are leaving a stalemate of three billion euros for the year 2012 in the budget of the european union. in other words, we are postponing this deadlock until next year and we can be sure that by the middle of the year the problems will be reappearing in the erasmus programme and that by the end of the year the deadlock will be even more colossal. we in our group think that this is not a reasonable course of action and that we must also protest against an attitude and a spirit which dominates the decisions of the heads of state. for france, to accept this 3 billion was to show a budget deficit of 4.7 or 4.8 instead of 4.5. this is really ridiculous, especially when we think of president hollande's words about the recovery plan, that "european funds had to be mobilised to revive the european economy". and we're not thinking about anything! this inconsistency is also observed at the level of other heads of state. no one's here to catch up! the european parliament must endorse this attitude and we must take stock of the serious difficulties facing the european budget in 2013. our group will vote against this agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards an agreement on the 2012 amending budget and the 2013 budget. however, the european parliament would have liked to see a more ambitious council, more in line with the needs of the european citizens. i would like to emphasize this point. the provisions of the pact for growth and jobs must not be left untouched. in addition, this package already portends a repetition of the payment credit problem next year. the problem is not one-off, but structural: budgetary annuality, guaranteeing payment appropriations to meet the expenditure committed. i propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we take up this matter in the context of the european semester. and for at least two reasons: the impact of the european budget on national, regional and local investment is not taken into account in the annual growth review, which merely provides a framework for coordinating national budgets taken separately. and yet, we can see the value of connecting the two levels. the european growth strategy must be based not only on better economic and budgetary coordination between member states but also on dynamic and adequately endowed european policies. it would also be inappropriate for the european authorities to try to teach lessons or even to punish member states in budgetary matters, when they themselves are not perfectly virtuous and have a negative influence on concrete policies such as cohesion or youth actions. our line of action is clear: we expect a firm political commitment from the council that the 2012 invoices will be honoured in full without burdening the 2013 budget. it's about our credibility. finally, in the future, to get out of this kind of impasse, i would once again stress the need to guarantee own resources for the european budget.
mr president, we in the committee on employment and social affairs have examined this proposal very carefully and what strikes us is that, at a time when the crisis is here, when liberalism has everywhere ravaged whole sectors of the european economy, the commission is again proposing liberalisation, on the grounds that the service to the consumer would be of a better quality through lower prices. i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european air traffic control system. we have tabled these amendments again in the event that the proposal to reject the commission's proposal tabled by our colleague brian simpson does not pass, in the event that the rejection is not voted on in plenary tomorrow; we have tabled the amendments we adopted in committee again to emphasize in such cases two or three points which we consider essential. the first point is the question of the transfer of employees' rights in the event of transfer, loss of licence or change of service. because, quite frankly, when the service provider changes, those who are engaged in these stopover services must be able to see their rights maintained. we are talking here about the social model of flexicurity. that's part of it. the committee on employment and social affairs asks you to be consistent in this respect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. we are very much afraid that the commission's proposal, as you have put it on the table today, commissioner, will lead to a deterioration in the situation of staff working at those airports which you want to liberalize again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone remembers that in this term of office we voted for the first time in favour of a tax on financial transactions on the so-called crisis report. we have come a long way since then, probably also because we are still in crisis, unfortunately. finally, this idea is going to take a fundamental step today. and when i look at the countries that have joined together to launch this enhanced cooperation, for which i thank the commission for putting on the table a proposal that allows us to make real progress, it is clear that the question of the euro zone is going to be raised. we shall also ask ourselves what the result of this taxation will be. i suggest that we should not forget the historical justification for the tax, which was to have aid for the least favoured countries, including the possibility of keeping at least 10% of the proceeds of this tax for cooperation and development. i believe that the european union also needs to be able to use the revenue from this tax for a meaningful european project. will it be first in the euro area, with this budgetary capacity we are talking about? i believe, commissioner, that you and your colleagues must still show some creativity in order to make it possible for the revenue from this tax to be used to provide a european union resource, either for the euro area, which seems to me, given the countries that are members of enhanced cooperation today, the most likely, but otherwise, if others want to join us, well, more broadly for the union budget. in any case, let us not forget to link own resources and taxation of financial transactions, even if we are in the framework of enhanced cooperation.
mr president, commissioner, i want to say here that i fully support the conclusions of the commission's report, as well as the balanced work done by our rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, whom i would like to thank. the regulations in force have made it possible to improve the overall transport of animals for slaughter. however, efforts remain to ensure that the existing rules are applied uniformly in all member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i think that the legislation on the eight-hour limit, which is still under debate today, must be properly applied, taking into account certain exceptions, such as the remoteness of certain areas, the state of the road networks or the persistence of unforeseeable delays beyond the control of the hauliers. as the commission says, in the present state of the law, there is no need for further legislation.
in writing. the transport of animals is not just a question of animal welfare. it involves many economic, environmental and public health factors. a reduction in the transport time of animals will improve the balanced development of rural areas through the development of local slaughterhouses. it will improve the quality of the meat and prevent the risk of transmission and spread of diseases arising during transport. it will significantly reduce the co2 emissions emitted by transport operators. it will allow better traceability of meat and processed products. it will ensure that consumers are no longer misled about the quality and origin of their products. for all these reasons, i ask the european commission to ensure strict control of legislation on the transport of animals and to take action against member states which do not comply with it. finally, we must also exercise strict monitoring and control of the transport of animals from third countries when the meat is destined for the internal market, in compliance with the reciprocity of trade and for reasons of public health and consumer information.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner reding, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to warmly congratulate my colleague, monika flašíková beňová, but i do not draw the same conclusions as mrs gál. in fact, mrs beňová has not spared any effort in recent weeks to make this report on fundamental rights in the european union a courageous summary of the weaknesses that our democratic systems in europe still suffer from. it is by presenting objectively the shortcomings that can be identified in our states that we will be in the best position to contribute together, member states and european institutions combined, to an improvement in the fundamental rights of european citizens. whether it is minority rights, equal opportunities, migrants' rights, data protection or access to justice, we have a duty to ensure that these rights are not reduced to wishful thinking. the economic crisis is hitting the most vulnerable even harder and more people are being threatened by poverty every day. the question of respect for economic and social rights is becoming even more acute today. and the worrying rise of extremism also invites us to make this objective examination as many symptoms of the evil that is eating away at our democracies today, which are struggling to respond to the suffering of our fellow citizens. i must say that i regret the epp's move to table an alternative resolution. it is a report which is devoid of substance, and it omits a great many facts and recommendations which we as members of the european parliament have a responsibility to make known out of respect for the european citizens who elected us. this is an inappropriate procedure, even though we are talking about fundamental rights. i therefore call on our colleagues to commit themselves so that tomorrow we can indeed be proud of the nobel peace prize which was awarded to us earlier this week in oslo, otherwise this success would have been very bitter.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to thank mrs flašíková beňová for her patience and tenacity in seeking agreement while respecting the position of all the groups. obviously, we didn't make it. however, in the present period it would be essential for the european parliament to live up to its reputation. many voices are moved by developments in human rights in the european union. i will take only one significant indicator: the number of convictions of member states by the european court of human rights. beyond the speeches, the trends are worrying. in the name of the fight against terrorism and, now, serious crime, a growing number of civil liberties and fundamental rights are being trampled on as if human rights were now secondary to the need for security. migrants and minorities are also deprived of their rights when they are not the victims of popular revenge, the easy scapegoats of the failures of economic and social policies. it is as if a growing number of men, women and children living in the territory of the union do not have the same rights as others. instead of responding, many governments and politicians have followed the lead of hate speech. xenophobic rhetoric is flourishing at the highest political levels. the report denounces these deviations and makes some proposals. i'm glad you did. no, human rights should not be exploited, they are universal in europe as elsewhere. we see it every day. the member states are not in the best position to defend them. i too sincerely regret the attitude of the epp group, which is a break with the previous reports, which were signed by mrs gál.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the last four years we have been working to revive the european economy. i have just told my colleague that we are always saying the same thing, and i hope that one day we will succeed. after all this effort, i hope this council will be a small light at the end of the tunnel. we are at the end of the year and this is a good time to take stock of the past months, and i will go even further than the last twelve months, because it must be stressed that we have nevertheless taken a giant step forward with parliament in our integration: with the six-pack, the european semester, the creation of european supervisory authorities and, quite simply, the acceptance that our economic policies are no longer just national but that they require more transparency, we have taken decisions which would have been unthinkable two years ago. contrary to what some governments have led their citizens to believe, these reforms were not imposed by brussels or by individual member states. in general, i am not sure that all heads of government are aware of the manoeuvres which have only one objective: to weaken the european institutions. and there is no question of sacrificing an independent, efficient and diverse european public service. we have carried out the necessary reforms, because they were necessary for each of the 27. but we must go further. and i call on the governments that will be meeting tomorrow to live up to their commitments. your fellow citizens need it. what is decided must be implemented, and not just now, when the economic situation demands it. ladies and gentlemen, the only way to restore confidence and growth is with more europe. but whenever we have tried an intergovernmental approach instead of the community approach, we have hit a wall. the failure of the stability and growth pact is proof of this. we need real decisions at european level and parliament must fully assume its role as a co-legislator. that is why my group supports the two-pack, because we are convinced that budgetary coordination and surveillance must be strengthened. we must now finish. we cannot delay the strengthening of economic and monetary union. my dear colleagues, we are all interdependent. banks are no longer regional or national. they are european and global. the french and german banks hold the majority of greek sovereign debt. and a bank cannot be considered too big to fail or too small to be regulated. that is why the proposal for a banking union is necessary, because there can be no real economic and monetary union without supervision. that is why we are advocating a european budget that is up to the challenges ahead. to get out of the crisis, you need growth, and to have growth, you need investment. i often think of our history, the courage of the founding fathers - it was recalled this morning - it was necessary to put the brothers who were enemies yesterday to work together, to share sovereignty. but far from losing it, it was a way of ensuring our sovereignty. dear friends, on monday, we were awarded the nobel peace prize. it is the fruit of a legacy which we must be worthy of so that, in more than sixty years' time, it can be passed on to future generations. today we must have the courage to take a further step forward, a step towards banking union, to get agreement on the multiannual financial framework. if we do not have this multiannual agreement, how do you expect the european citizens to believe in a europe? and each member state must show responsibility and not give in to the temptation of political spectacle.
the question is "blue cardboard". does the liberal party have statutes and are statutes meant to be respected and enforced? that's all i ask.
well, you have received the nobel peace prize, without any awareness of the ridiculousness and indecency of your self-congratulations, the nobel peace prize, for those who have declared economic war and social war on the peoples. you refuse to see one thing, is that you are hated by more and more people. but look, when mrs merkel walks around in greece or portugal, or this or that european commissioner, hundreds of police are mobilized to prevent the mob from lynching them. you have turned the richest continent in the world into a wasteland of suffering, with an unprecedented number of victims. you failed and you are now in a real leap forward. the eurozone has been experiencing zero growth for ten years, unemployment is exploding, and the european union is a machine for producing poverty and unemployment. and you are quietly implementing a real dictatorship, in the sense that mr mendes france prophesied in 1957. he wasn't from my parish, he was from yours. perhaps he prophesied this because he knew you better than anyone else. this european union is out of breath. i am grateful to the commission for the support it has given to the european parliament in this matter.
madam president, mr president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso, mr president of the council, i will never get used to the fact that the president of the european council does not take part in our preparatory meetings of the european council. madam president, i propose that we invite you to every meeting, informally, so that we can have a political debate. we have a lot of instruments that are unused. i wonder if the time has really come to propose ideas such as those contained in the report of the president of the european council. after the failure of the constitutional treaty, we have the lisbon treaty, the treaty on stability and coordination of governance, which is being ratified by the member states, the stability mechanism, and today, what do our citizens want? they want a europe of results! they don't want a whole bunch of discussions and speeches that they don't understand! schengen is not working! customs, external borders, legal immigration, the european external action service with our national diplomats, international trade with reciprocity, social convergence, smics still at 400 euros - this is a disgrace in the former communist countries. the supervision of credit institutions, of course, but also insurance, auditing, chemistry, construction, industrial policy and research... the european union of results, please! we are witnessing a form of cacophony, let's not go too fast! we're going to crash into the wall of citizen incomprehension! mr van rompuy proposes without consultation a budgetary capacity for the euro area. what is the link with the financial framework of the european union? i am concluding, madam president. article 9 of the protocol proposes cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. it is time for this consultation to take place so that the voice of the citizens can be heard by the heads of state who are not alone in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a budgetary union in which the member states exercise discipline cannot function without a federal budgetary capacity, fed by permanent own resources. this is finally acknowledged in the roadmap of the four presidents, the commission's blueprint and the thyssen report of our parliament. unfortunately, the discussion on the 2014-2020 budgetary outlook does not bode well for this necessary step towards fiscal federalism. in the blue print, this new horizon is only foreseen in the long term 2019 while fiscal consolidation is already causing clear recessionary effects. but in the long run, some of us are going to die, and in the short run, we're all already depressed. we must therefore say to the heads of state or government at this council: when will you finally admit that a revision of the deficit reduction timetable will help to sustain the recovery in the face of the coming recession? in this respect, as regards the six-pack, if we impose a reasonable pace, this six-pack is more flexible than the commission's recommendations from a very questionable annual growth review. mr president, when will you create a genuine golden rule that focuses discipline where it matters on functioning but, as my colleague mr bullman has just pointed out, allows us to prepare for the future by excluding capital expenditure from the calculation of deficits. my dear colleagues, the federalists are looking forward to the long term, but in the meantime our fellow citizens want something concrete, otherwise, as we have seen, the old demons could resurface, which would be paradoxical when europe is receiving the nobel peace prize.
mr president, i would simply like to remind mr goebbels that the european constitution which made the union's symbols - the flag and the anthem - official was rejected by the peoples to whom it was submitted. consequently, the constitutional treaty was never ratified. i think that if mr goebbels is a true democrat, he should take the opinion of the people into account. (applause) (protests) the commission has not yet
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which follows an agreement on the budget of the european union with the council. the latter will allow the payment of an additional amount to pay the costs incurred in 2012 without, however, affecting the 2013 amount.
in writing. it's not perfect, but it'll pay the bills at the end of the year. that is a rather quick way of summing up the agreement on the amending budget, but it corresponds to the delicate situation in which we find ourselves today. the council agreed to set aside eur 6 billion of the eur 9 billion needed by the union to close the 2012 budget. the agreement allows funds to be released for erasmus or the globalisation adjustment fund. but there's still 3 billion euros outstanding, which is huge. the union therefore starts 2013 with already €3 billion in 'payment arrears', which is far from satisfactory. we have obtained the political commitment of the council to finance these 3 billion by means of supplements and not by transferring or redeploying budget lines. in the european parliament we will ensure that this commitment is respected, but this is not a long-term situation. we will only get out of these impasses by developing new resources of our own.
in writing. the negotiations on the 2012 budget finally resulted in an agreement. currently, €9 billion is lacking to cover the funding of european programmes such as erasmus or the european social fund. the european parliament has secured €6.1 billion from the member states. the agreement is accompanied by a written declaration in which the states commit themselves to providing the remaining €2.9 billion in 2013.
in writing. i voted for the balzani report. i welcome the adoption of amending budget no 6 of €6 billion, supplemented by a solemn commitment by the presidents of the three institutions to make up the €2.9 billion shortfall in 2012 by 2013 at the latest. in my view, the payment of the 9 billion arrears in 2012 was a matter of principle.
in writing. the adoption of the 2013 budget ends the deadlock in the negotiations. the agreement allows the eu to have a budget on 1 january, but the level of payments may prove insufficient. this is of course a cause for concern, as the european budget is financed by 75% national contributions. although the treaty gives the council and parliament the same power over expenditure, in practice the states have the final say on payments. given the budgetary constraints faced by the states at national level, they again agreed on a level of payments for next year below the estimated needs, while suspending 2.9 billion payments for 2012 which will still need to be financed in 2013. the pressure on the 2013 amending budget will therefore be very strong. our endorsement was given only with the council's formal commitment to provide this 2.9 billion in 2013, with any further extension if needed. we must not let our vigilance weaken, because we need a consolidated budget, the only lever to invest in the service of growth. these recurrent crises require a thorough debate on the eu's resources in order to increase its budgetary autonomy.
in writing. the report by my colleague francesca balzani was adopted by a large majority, with 514 votes in favour, 68 against and 82 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of the amending budget for the financial year 2012. the budget now adopted calls for an increase in payment appropriations and a reduction in the level of commitment appropriations entered in the budget.
in writing. the report accepts that part of the necessary expenditure for 2012 is allocated to the 2013 budget, but stresses that this is abnormal. it is symptomatic of the parliament's low weight in the european institutions: that of a legislative dwarf, incapable of maintaining a real balance of power vis-à-vis the council. as it stands, we are obliged to vote on this amending budget a minima. otherwise, it would be tantamount to refusing to pay the sums due and thus to refuse to pay, among other things, erasmus grants. this is the european institution: disastrous agreements, blackmail, a-minima votes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the draft budget for next year. parliament has thus taken a clear position in protecting many programmes such as erasmus and research programmes for negotiation with the council. it is essential that the european union retains a budget large enough to honour its commitments and continue to accompany european citizens towards a way out of the crisis.
in writing. as with the amending budget, the compromise on the 2013 budget is unsatisfactory, but it allows for progress. at €133 billion, the 2013 budget is substantial, even if it already lacks the €3 billion not provisioned for 2012 and €5 billion of cuts made to reduce the level of commitment. these shortfalls will surface again at the time of payment, reproducing a situation that we see every year - and increasingly earlier in the year: money is lacking to finance committed programmes such as the european social fund, erasmus, the globalisation adjustment fund or research programmes. such bargaining on the budget is unacceptable: while some member states are advocating the introduction of measures for growth and employment in europe, it is completely inconsistent to make budget cuts which will prevent the implementation of social policies and programmes. we must break out of these budgetary impasses by developing new own resources.
in writing. i welcome the determination of the european parliament, which has not backed down in the face of the states. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament and the council have shared budgetary competence. parliament has shown that the states cannot ignore its opinion. in times of crisis, it is essential that european policies for growth can be financed. europe must give itself the means to achieve its ambitions. while the draft budget for 2013 is 5 billion less than the commission's proposal of €133 billion, i would like to remind you that parliament has obtained a written guarantee from the member states that they will release the necessary sums should the 2013 budget run out of money.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the new general budget of the european union for 2013. i note that the european parliament has accepted most of its figures and priorities on commitments. this is particularly the case for vital categories such as growth and employment or for flagship programmes such as the erasmus programme.
in writing. italian know-how in the bicycle and motorcycle industry is no longer to be demonstrated. unfortunately, she's having a seizure in full force. i therefore support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 502 workers made redundant in the emilia-romagna region. i hope that this aid will enable them to recover and to participate in the renewal of their industry, which i am sure will regain its full dynamism and its full place in world competition.
in writing. it was under the heavy pressure of a risk of budgetary crisis in the event of a negative vote by the european parliament that i voted in favour of the 2012 amending budget and the 2013 budget. the vote was accompanied by a joint declaration - council/commission/european parliament - that the backlog of 2.9 billion missing from the 2012 amending budget will have to be financed by fresh money. with my political group we have worked to ensure that this budget is firmly geared to investment, employment policy, youth and the fight against poverty. however, in this year we are only pushing back by one year the difficult deadline for a real lack of payment appropriations. i regret that national selfishness and the convenient pretext of the economic crisis have the effect of ignoring the real added value of a common budget for growth for all. the question of a european budget with its own resources is more urgent than ever to avoid a battle of individualistic interests, which is far removed from the spirit of solidarity of the founding fathers of europe.
in writing. the report by my colleagues giovanni la via and derek vaughan was adopted by 498 votes in favour, 162 against and 12 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is a great success for the european parliament. parliament, despite long and perilous negotiations, was able to assert itself and obtain satisfaction on the amount of payment of the invoices due in 2012. parliament also succeeded in ensuring that its priorities in the 2013 budget were respected: the research framework programme, aid for innovation, erasmus, major infrastructures. these priorities are investments for the future which are essential for europe's competitiveness. while the budget ministers categorically refused to exceed the 129 billion payment, thanks to parliament, the total amount will eventually reach 138.7 billion, an actual increase of 9.6%. as these difficult negotiations come to an end, it now seems essential that the european union should have community own resources. it is also clear that its system for assessing actual needs for payment appropriations is far from adequate. the system needs to be reformed urgently to make it transparent and effective.
in writing. this report endorses the council's position on the european budget and the council's excuse for cutting it out of national austerity measures. i would remind you that cutting the union's budget is a political choice and not an imperative: governments spend far more on debt service and contributions to the esm, expenditure for the exclusive benefit of the banks, than in the european budget, a large part of which benefits them. worse still, this report supports the widespread austerity imposed on the people through the tscg and proposes to exclude member states' contributions from the calculation of the structural deficit. he even claims to be showing "solidarity"! i am voting against this inept text which is blindly voluntary in the face of the impending catastrophe.
in writing. i have chosen to vote in favour of the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. indeed, before we can embark on difficult negotiations for the coming year, it seemed to me absolutely essential to settle the remaining issues of the 2012 budget first. the €6 billion missing from the previous budget year has been secured and we have obtained an agreement in principle that an additional €2.9 billion will be added to the 2013 budget to cover projects which i believe are of prime importance (the erasmus grant, for example). the crisis we are going through is exceptional. it's about giving yourself the means to get out of it. the european budget must be more ambitious. it must give priority to what will enable us to overcome this economic and social crisis: youth, education and training. i can only support this approach on the condition, of course, that everyone keeps their commitments and that the additional 2.9 billion euros foreseen for the financial year 2013 are not only planned but actually released. the credibility of our institutions and our ability to overcome crises depend on it.
in writing. at a time when citizens are being asked to make unprecedented efforts to deal with the crisis, the european union must adapt to these new realities. the eu budget is an investment budget which complements national budgets, but its main contributors are france and germany. in the special period we are going through, the eu could not therefore have an excessive budget. this is why parliament was able to negotiate a 2013 budget that is more in line with the requirements for financing investment policies while taking account of the budgetary pressures on member states. by approving this draft budget and the amending budget, the european parliament has achieved a great victory: solving the problem of the 2012 arrears while preserving the 2013 budget estimated at €135.7 billion including the €6 billion in the amending budget. this large budget ensures that essential programmes such as erasmus mundus, research programmes and urgent cases such as the mobilisation of the globalisation fund for the benefit of 5 300 employees in 560 companies in 7 countries are secured.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of italy, is intended to help 512 people made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support european workers who have lost their jobs. it allows them to reintegrate professionally. exceptionally, the financial and economic crisis is a sufficient reason for a member state to apply for a grant. the crisis has affected the italian motorised two-wheeler industry (the largest producer in europe) and has led to several waves of redundancies. in an effort to show solidarity with the workers made redundant, the european parliament adopted a resolution, which i supported, releasing €2.6 million in aid.
in writing. italian know-how in the bicycle and motorcycle industry is no longer to be demonstrated. unfortunately, she's having a seizure in full force. i therefore support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 502 workers made redundant in the emilia-romagna region. i hope that this aid will enable them to recover and to participate in the renewal of their industry, which i am sure will regain its full dynamism and its full place in world competition.
in writing. the report by my colleague frédéric daerden was adopted by 586 votes to 69, with 16 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report which will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy, a country facing a high number of redundancies in the manufacture of motorised two-wheelers. the egf will contribute eur 2 658 495 to italy.
in writing. i am thinking of the italian workers in the automotive sector in emilia-romagna who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable. it supports the logic which leads to the destruction of this sector in europe for the benefit of multinationals.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of sweden, is intended to help 1350 people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european union's european globalisation adjustment fund to help swedish workers who have been made redundant by the saab group to reintegrate into their workforce. the european automotive sector is being hit hard by the crisis, which is benefiting the brics markets, where demand is growing. while the eu's global market share has fallen by 10 points in 10 years (26% in 2010), the brics's has fallen from 8.4% to 33.5%.
in writing. the report by my colleague frédéric daerden was adopted by 591 votes to 69, with 20 abstentions. the european union will be able to help sweden, a member state currently facing redundancies in the automotive sector, by mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report is a charity for the swedish saab workers who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. they won't get it themselves. general motors will receive it to finance the re-employment assistance provided to some of the workers made redundant. this text supports the logic that allows general motors to lay off workers to save profits without worrying about the workers it leaves behind. general motors has to pay for the consequences of its policies. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of spain, is intended to help 500 people made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. i have responded positively to spain's request for a subsidy for the 500 workers made redundant in the metal products sector. this grant application is reflected in the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to enable these former employees to return to employment as quickly as possible.
in writing. the report by my colleague salvador garriga polledo was adopted by 591 votes to 68, with 20 abstentions. the adoption of this report will enable the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised to help spain, which is facing redundancies in 423 companies specialising in the manufacture of metal products. the egf will contribute eur 1 299 545 to the project.
in writing. i am thinking of the basque workers in the metal products sector who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. in the situation in which they are plunged into the consequences of the neoliberal policies advocated by the european union, one might want to vote against, since this charity is so ridiculous. but the little that is given can relieve their pain. the logic of the european globalisation adjustment fund is, however, intolerable.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of denmark, is intended to help 216 people who have been made redundant. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. − denmark has called on european solidarity to help 153 workers made redundant by flextronics international denmark a/s, a provider of design and manufacturing services for electronic products. eur 1.3 million will be mobilised through the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. the report by my colleague jan kozlowski was adopted by a large majority, with 589 votes in favour, 68 against and 18 abstentions. the adoption of this report will enable the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help denmark, a member state facing 303 redundancies in the electronic parts manufacturing sector. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report is a tribute to the danish workers at flextronics who were sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. they won't get it themselves. flextronics will receive the money to finance the re-employment assistance provided to some of the redundant workers. this text supports the logic that allows flextronics to lay off workers to preserve its profits without worrying about the workers it leaves behind. flextronics has to pay for the consequences of its policy. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of romania, is aimed at helping 1416 dismissed persons. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. the shift of production from europe to asia leads to massive redundancies. the telephone industry is no exception. in response to these redundancies, the european union provides financial assistance to countries that request it. in the case of nokia, the eu will co-finance a set of measures (training, encouraging entrepreneurship, etc.) to help these romanian workers find skilled work.
in writing. i supported the report by nadezhda neynsky at the plenary session on 12 december. the report was adopted by 578 votes in favour, 70 against and 23 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report which will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for romania. romania is currently facing a large number of redundancies (nearly 1904) in the mobile phone manufacturing sector. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report is a charity for the romanian workers of nokia, the world's number two telecommunications company, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. they won't get it themselves. nokia will receive the aid to finance the re-employment assistance provided to some of the redundant workers. this text supports the logic that allows nokia to lay off workers to relocate without worrying about the workers it leaves behind. nokia must pay for the consequences of its policy. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of austria, is intended to help 1050 redundant workers. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
due to the crisis, some sectors, including social services, are receiving less funding. in an effort to show european solidarity, i therefore supported the request made by austria to help 350 dismissed social workers. the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund will help them to find qualified work again.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague paul rübig in the plenary session of 12 december. the report was adopted by 546 votes in favour, 69 against and 64 abstentions. i'm glad you did. the adoption of this report will make it possible to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help austria, which is currently experiencing a wave of redundancies in the mobile social services sector. austria reports about 1155 redundancies in this sector. the egf will mobilise eur 5 200 650 for austria.
in writing. this report offers a small alms to austrian workers who are victims of the budget cuts made by the styrian regional government to clean up the regional budget by 2013 as requested by the troika. this text endorses the austerity policies implemented throughout europe. the union believes it is clearing its hands by offering this meagre allowance to some laid-off workers to help them get back to work. their research is likely to be more than difficult because of the underfunding of disability services. it is up to the styrian government and the austrian government to ensure a future for these workers, who have sacrificed their lives, and to provide a service worthy of the name to disabled citizens. i am voting against these policies.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006, aims to help reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in world trade. in 2009, its scope was extended to include victims of the financial crisis. this request, for the benefit of finland, is intended to help 1000 dismissed persons. it has the support of the european parliament and of myself.
in writing. thanks to the european union, 1000 finnish workers made redundant by the nokia group will receive eu aid. training and business start-up aid will facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. the union is contributing €5.3 million through the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague alda sousa, which was adopted by a large majority: 583 votes in favour, 72 against and 25 abstentions. i welcome the adoption of this report which will enable the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised to help finland, which is currently facing significant redundancies in the mobile phone sector. finland's application for mobilisation of the egf refers to 1000 redundancies at nokia. the amount of the egf shall be eur 5346000.
in writing. this report offers a charity for the finnish workers of nokia, the world's number two telecommunications company, who have been sacrificed on the altar of globalisation. they won't get it themselves. nokia will receive the aid to finance the re-employment assistance provided to some of the redundant workers. this text supports the logic that allows nokia to lay off workers to relocate without worrying about the workers it leaves behind. nokia must pay for the consequences of its policy. i am voting against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which called for the rejection of the european commission's proposal to carry out a large-scale statistical study on crime. i was not in favour of this study because of its cost and its imperfect methodology. not all member states were included in the panel.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the regulation on european statistics on crime safety. in supporting the report, i oppose the european commission's proposal to carry out a survey of households and individuals on crime safety, considering that the proposed method is inadequate because it is subjective and confusing.
in writing. in this period of budgetary seriousness, we cannot afford to spend several million on programmes for which the commission does not provide sufficient justification. with this text, which i support, parliament is demonstrating its key role as the democratic controller of european decisions by rejecting this proposal. the collection of crime statistics is useful, even necessary, for the effective fight against crime. but this should not justify redundant measures or excessive expenditure.
in writing. at the plenary session on 12 december, i voted against the commission's draft regulation on european statistics on security in the face of crime. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission had planned to launch a €12 million household crime safety survey. in his report, my colleague timothy kirkhope points out the lack of clarity in the methodology used for this survey and expresses serious doubts about the added value of such a survey.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr kirkhope's report rejecting the commission's proposal to adopt a regulation on european statistics on crime safety. the commission stresses the importance of common statistics for the formulation of union policies, particularly in the field of criminal law. the european parliament followed up its committee on civil liberties which did not receive the information and clarifications requested from the european commission. it rejected this proposal because it raises questions about the method used, in particular in view of the questions asked (e.g. drug problems of the person questioned, possible possession of a weapon, etc.). beyond the methodological problems the commission is accused of, these intrusive questions are related to the perception that every resident of the union is a potential criminal. this is unacceptable in a society of law! in addition, the european commission is proposing a budget of €12 million to carry out this information gathering work. a disproportionate sum in these times of crisis and austerity, for an otherwise uncertain outcome. for these reasons i voted against this proposal which represents a further infringement of fundamental rights and privacy.
in writing. this text is part of a package of three texts aimed at reforming the airport sector. the liberalisation of ground handling services at eu airports is a particularly sensitive issue. a draft text was voted by the parliamentary committee on transport. like a majority of the house, i voted for the referral of this text to committee in order to allow the negotiations to resume in a more calm climate in the face of the many fears expressed by the social partners.
in writing. i voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal on the liberalisation of inland waterway services. as the members of the committee on transport had done, our parliament chose, in plenary, to reject the commission's proposal and to vote to refer the matter back to committee. opinions differ as to whether greater liberalisation of in-land assistance services is appropriate: would it guarantee a higher quality of service? what protection of workers' rights? the committee on employment had voted an opinion which provides for stronger protection of workers' rights and adequate social protection, in particular for subcontractors, under penalty of sanctions, in order to prevent the negative effects of liberalisation. the new review in parliament should make it possible to reflect again on the appropriateness of further liberalisation and on ways of better protecting workers in the sector.
in writing. opening the airport ground handling services to competition would allow us to increase the efficiency of our airports. the text was still far too difficult to adopt as it stands, but i am pleased that we have managed to maintain the employment acquis proposed by parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. i hope that we will soon reach a compromise satisfactory to all.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring the text back to the committee on transport and i welcome the result of the vote which will allow the text to be examined in a more calm atmosphere. this proposal provides real answers to the problems identified by the various stakeholders. but we are talking about a sector where working conditions remain difficult, and i can understand the fears expressed by the social partners in the face of any new proposals. i believe that a closer dialogue is therefore necessary before any measures are adopted, so that the actors concerned by this proposal for a regulation can understand the issues involved. the regulation would, in particular, strengthen safety standards, ensure greater transparency in the award of contracts, strengthen the role of airports in crisis situations and ensure that workers' rights are better protected. as for the slight opening up of these regulated markets, the arrival of a third provider to put an end to certain monopolistic situations while ensuring the quality of services to users seems to me to be in the right direction. that is why a rejection of the proposal would have been a missed opportunity for workers and consumers.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's decision to reopen negotiations in the parliamentary committee responsible on the proposed opening of the market for airport ground handling services. given the sensitivity of the subject, i see this postponement as a conciliatory gesture to the social partners who were concerned that the increase in the minimum number of in-country assistance providers from two to three would lead to a precarious employment situation in the sector. this increase, which must be distinguished from market opening, was aimed at services such as baggage handling, runway operations, fuel and oil and cargo and mail, which are almost monopolistically owned by one or two service providers at some european airports, which can affect the quality of services. the fears expressed by airport staff are understandable, but the measures envisaged would not have affected france, which already applies them. however, the strong concerns raised by this proposal clearly demonstrate the need to strengthen the dialogue with all the partners concerned.
in writing. my colleague artur zasada's report is one of the three reports in the 'airport' package. this report concerns the liberalisation of ground handling services at airports in the european union. in this report my colleagues and i have asked for the negotiations in the committee on transport to be reopened. the committee's report was adopted by 396 votes to 272 with 12 abstentions. this will allow the text to be examined in a more calm, reasonable and pragmatic atmosphere. it is now essential to strengthen the dialogue with the social partners.
in writing. the european commission's proposal to open up the market for in-land services is unacceptable. it serves the interests of the airlines only, to the detriment of the workers. i support the motion to reject this proposal.
in writing. the proposal submitted by the commission to the european parliament was aimed at liberalising ground handling services (gas), i.e. services provided to an air carrier at an airport. the aim was to allow at least a third independent ground handling company to enter the market, which would have the effect of liberalising and increasing the number of ground handling service providers, with catastrophic social consequences for airport workers. the text was so controversial that the parliamentary committee on transport (tran) voted against it. i therefore voted against this text and for its referral back to committee. the proposal was indeed rejected by a majority of the european parliament, and i welcome that. my colleagues in the gue/ngl group and i will be keeping a close eye on this matter.
in writing. while 70% of flight delays are due to problems on the ground, it is essential to support the concrete measures proposed by the european commission to improve the efficiency and quality of these airport ground handling services (baggage, runway operations, fuel, etc.), streamline air traffic and improve passenger comfort. the creation of a ground services coordinator, the requirement for each airline to have a legal representative and the opening up of the market for ground services to a third party are all concrete proposals which will enable us to achieve these objectives in the interests of travellers. i therefore regret that some of my socialist and green colleagues have opposed this new opening up to competition for ideological reasons and have called, in vain, for the rejection of this proposal for a regulation, which nevertheless proposes concrete solutions without upsetting the system. it is up to the committee on transport, of which i am a member, to vote on this text again. i shall be defending the measures which i consider necessary to modernise the operation of our airports, which will double the number of passengers by 2030.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text proposing new rules for the allocation of landing and take-off rights for aircraft at the busiest airports. however, it will be necessary to be vigilant about the creation of a monetised exchange market for time slots, which could result in speculation.
in writing. our airports are facing worrying congestion situations, and it is estimated that by 2030 at least 10% of air transport demand will not be able to be properly met. it has become urgent to increase the capacity of our airports. to this end, a reform of the measures for allocating slots for take-off and landing of aircraft was essential. this balanced reform will help to reduce congestion at our airports and to meet the challenges of congestion in european airspace.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will provide a better framework for the rules on the allocation of time slots within the union. this text is the result of an agreement which reorientated the european commission's proposal, which did not respond in any way to the expectations of the sector and the need for increased capacity. it is very regrettable, however, that a majority of members supported the creation of a monetised time-slot exchange market. this opens the way for speculation in an industry already plagued by fierce competition. it would have been wiser to tackle this unfair competition before letting european companies loose in a market where the rules of the game are not the same for everyone. moreover, with this secondary market, there is a real risk to the survival of regional services which are so important for opening up our territories and maintaining the competitiveness of our economic players.
in writing. the report by my colleague giommaria uggias was adopted by 565 votes in favour, 69 against and 26 abstentions. i'm glad you did. this report is one of the three reports in the 'airport' package. the aim is to streamline the allocation of slots to hauliers. the rapporteur stresses the need to guarantee the independence and neutrality of the role of the coordinators. it also favours a secondary market for slot machines.
in writing. this report supports the logic of the air transport market for slots. it proposes only a simple monitoring of the secondary market for slot machines. ridiculously liberal. i vote against it.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this regulation which addresses the problem of airport congestion by encouraging airlines to make better use of the slots they get for take-off and landing. among the rules adopted to make more rational use of infrastructure, i would like to mention the renewal of the 'use-or-lose it' rule, which obliges airlines to use 80% of slots if they want them to be automatically renewed the following year. i also supported the reinforcement of penalties for late return from a flight cancellation slot. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances. finally, i welcome the possibility for companies to exchange slots or resell slots to each other. i would, however, call for strict application of the measures on the market for the resale of slots: the sale can only take place if the slot has been used for at least a year, otherwise speculation would be allowed to run rampant, to the detriment of travellers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, as did a large majority of the european parliament. we have adopted a series of measures to improve noise control at airports. simple but effective measures to take account of the public health impacts of the development of this mode of transport at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports. the report's main objective is to reduce air traffic noise by choosing the optimal solution for a given airport. i agree with the following proposals in the directive: reduction of aircraft noise at source, land-use planning and management measures, introduction of operational procedures to reduce noise and certain operating restrictions.
in writing. aircraft noise can be a real nuisance to people living near airports. it was therefore important that the union update its noise standards in order to improve and facilitate the adoption of measures to limit noise without endangering the economic activities of airport areas. i voted in favour of this step forward, which will protect our citizens without hindering our competitiveness.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which will make it possible to regulate noise around airports more effectively. the measures adopted today reflect a compromise which, among other things, reduces noise to protect the inhabitants of the river banks from well-known nuisances. by improving the transparency of the procedures used to introduce new operating restrictions, we are ensuring that the arrangements put in place at airports will only meet a set of objective criteria. it is important to take into account local specificities and in particular the expectations of the local population in order to adopt a balanced approach. that is why the european parliament has been united throughout the procedure in ensuring that local actors have the final say and that the measures adopted are not the result of simple arithmetical calculations established by default by the european commission.
in writing. the report by my colleague, mr jörg leichtfried, on the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports, was adopted by 501 votes to 155, with 8 abstentions. i supported this report in plenary. the commission proposal aims to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports by reducing aircraft noise at source, land-use planning and management measures, noise abatement operating procedures and operating restrictions.
in writing. aircraft noise is a nuisance for an increasing number of citizens, especially at night. effective noise management regulations are therefore needed to mitigate the adverse effects. in my constituency in the south-west of france, less than 7 km from toulouse, is the sixth largest airport in france in terms of passengers. no fewer than 20 local associations have been set up to highlight the problems caused by noise pollution. i agree with the regulation on noise-related operating restrictions at airports. parliament's action has resulted in a more balanced text which takes greater account of the health aspects of noise. i am glad that we were able to limit the commission's right of inspection of decisions taken by the competent authorities on operating restrictions to a simple recommendation, whereas the commission's proposal allowed it to annul those decisions. i am convinced that the principle of subsidiarity must be respected here in order to take account of the problems arising at local level and to enable local associations to participate.
in writing. i voted against this report on the revision of the legislation on noise-related operating restrictions at eu airports. unfortunately, an overwhelming majority in the european parliament rejected the request of my gue/ngl group to remove the measure allowing the commission to decide on its own whether measures to restrict air travel near an airport are appropriate if they do not comply with the eu treaties. in this area, as in many others, we know that the commission gives priority to the rules of competition and the free movement of capital, goods and commodities over other areas, in particular health protection. in addition, the commission is not taking advantage of this legislative revision to propose new noise standards near airports to protect people's health. the european commission and the majority of the european parliament should reconsider their hierarchy of standards and prioritise the well-being and living conditions of citizens over compliance with competition procedures and rules.
in writing. reliable statistics are essential at european level. they are valuable indicators to guide our policies and a guarantee of citizens' confidence in the monitoring of work carried out at community level. like a large majority of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this text, which allows the establishment of a programme for the collection, processing and dissemination of statistics from 2013 to 2017 within the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european statistical programme 2013-2017. the european statistical programme shall define the objectives for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. the report aims to overhaul the european statistical system to make it more efficient and flexible by ensuring professional independence, sufficient resources and effective supervision.
in writing. statistics are not just used to take the pulse of our economy: increasingly, they are the basis of economic decisions. they must therefore be of the highest possible quality. to present a true picture of our economic situation is a sign of confidence and success. i support the adoption of this text because it lays a sound basis for reliable and transparent statistics, which european citizens can trust.
in writing. i supported the report by my colleague edward scicluna in the plenary on 12 december. this report on the european statistical programme 2013/2017 was adopted by 613 votes in favour, 22 against and 30 abstentions. the commission's proposal is very good, but the report by edward scicluna aims to make statistical information more accessible and to produce it on the basis of uniform standards and common evaluation and quality criteria. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. by supporting this text, i gave my approval to the establishment of the first enhanced cooperation in the financial field. eleven countries, including france and germany, have joined forces to introduce a financial transaction tax. some, such as the united kingdom, have opposed it, fearing that it would jeopardise the sector. france, on the contrary, has been campaigning for the introduction of such a tax since nicolas sarkozy.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i support the launch of a financial transaction tax in europe. while the specific details of the agreement are yet to be agreed, i welcome the adoption of this text, which marks a key step in implementing the g8 commitments to combat the crisis and return to growth.
in writing. despite the reluctance of some states, and after 12 years of persistence, the green light is finally given to the enhanced cooperation of 11 eu countries to introduce a financial transaction tax. it is worth recalling that this is the first enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation, where all decisions require unanimity, and therefore it is a source of great pride for all those who have supported this project since 2000. it is now important to convince the other countries of the union to adopt this tax so that we have a substantial budget of several tens of billions of euros. with such a product we could both create a new own resource for the eu and devote a substantial part of it to innovative financing to combat major pandemics, such as hunger, illiteracy or climate change. in the meantime, this tax is a good signal to the world, because the aim is to reach an agreement at international level in the long term. the moralization of finance must become a shared objective to prevent the crisis we experienced in 2008 and which continues to have a negative impact on our economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen european cooperation with a view to introducing a financial transaction tax. this tax, initiated by nicolas sarkozy, will make it possible to strengthen the european budget with a stable resource, but also independent of the goodwill of the member states.
in writing. in substance, i am in full agreement with the creation of a financial transaction tax. after the hundreds of billions injected into public funds to save the banks, it is time for the sector to finally contribute to solving the economic and budgetary crisis it has caused. the problem is the increased cooperation. it has only 11 participating states, not including the two main financial havens, the united kingdom and luxembourg. with so few participants, is it really reasonable to allow the commission to legislate in this area? i am reminded of the commission's ultimate desire to pass the proceeds of this tax onto the european budget rather than the national budgets. it would be even more unacceptable if the very text introducing the new tax were to be adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure, as parliament is asking for. that is to say, by a qualified majority and with the right of all the members of the european parliament, including those of the 16 countries which have rejected the tax, to vote. if the governments of the eleven volunteer states have the courage, they can agree on the modalities of a similar tax to be introduced at the same time at national level, or even act independently.
in writing. i gave my full support to the resolution by my colleague, anni podimata, authorising enhanced cooperation between 11 member states - which alone account for 90% of the euro area's gdp - to introduce a financial transaction tax between them, even if the ultimate aim remains to have a ftt at world level. i share the view that this tax should cover as many transactions as possible, which would be a form of 'reparation' for the damage caused by the speculative financial crisis. finance must return to its original task of financing the real economy. the tax should also help to set the eu on the path to a budget with its own resources, which is a very good thing in a time when the member states are relying on their national budgets in times of crisis. finally, beyond the unanimity rules in the council which prevail in this area of taxation, it seems to me important that the european parliament can play more than an advisory role in the further decision-making process.
in writing. on wednesday 12 december 2012, the european parliament authorised 11 member states to launch the enhanced cooperation procedure (france, germany, austria, belgium, spain, estonia, greece, italy, portugal, slovakia and slovenia) for the establishment of a financial transaction tax. the financial transaction tax which president nicolas sarkozy had advocated on many occasions at the major international meetings of the g8, the g20 and at european summits, and which the european parliament had been calling for for over two years, should be implemented after the council of the european union has given its approval by qualified majority. if the financial transaction tax becomes operational, it will consist of a levy of 0.1% on shares and bonds and 0.01% on derivatives. the purpose of the proceeds of this tax, which still causes deep differences within the council, remains to be defined.
in writing. at the plenary session of 12 december 2012, the majority of my colleagues (533 votes in favour) and i gave the green light to the enhanced cooperation of a financial transaction tax between 11 member states of the european union. this is an important step as parliament has just approved the first enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation. i welcome this development.
in writing. the commission estimates that a financial transaction tax, with a proposed tax rate of 0.1% on standard financial products (shares and bonds) and 0.01% on other financial products, would generate revenues of around €57 billion in 2012 alone. the idea of a tax is supported by 64% of european citizens, as i am. i therefore welcome the decision by 11 member states to strengthen their cooperation in order to introduce a financial transaction tax. i believe that this is a fair and consistent way out of the crisis. fair, because this tax allows the financial sector, which is partly responsible for the financial crisis, to contribute more to the cost of the crisis, which i believe has not yet sufficiently borne its share. it is also coherent, since it will provide substantial funds for the annual budget of the union, which, in view of the extension of its powers, is in great need of them. this could lead to a reduction in the member states' contributions to the union budget, allowing them to make further savings.
in writing. i voted in favour of enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation of financial transactions. the procedure for enhanced cooperation is certainly not ideal and a commitment by all the member states would have been preferable. moreover, it is only a very small step towards better financial regulation, but it can be said that it has the merit of being a step in the right direction. this is the first enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation and it should lead, for the first time at international level, to the implementation of the famous taxation of financial transactions. at present, 11 member states (belgium, germany, estonia, greece, spain, france, italy, austria, portugal, slovenia and slovakia) are involved in the process. we are far from being behind, but in the gue/ngl - which was the first group in the european parliament to promote this tax - we will continue to fight for its eventual generalization.
in writing. the vote by our assembly to formalise enhanced cooperation between 11 member states for the creation of a financial transaction tax is a significant source of satisfaction. this project, which was supported by president sarkozy, who was able to dispel the doubts of germany in particular, is finally becoming a reality and proves that the eu is able to unite and act when the situation calls for an ambitious response. the idea is simple: in the face of europe's budgetary difficulties and with financial flows representing an astronomical sum, a painless breakdown of the amounts of transactions would provide a valuable financial boon to supplement national budgetary contributions to the common european pot. the expected effect is extremely positive, because once a member state introduces such a tax, it will be able to deduct the proceeds from its contribution to the eu budget. this is all the more beneficial as it will contribute to the consolidation of public finances and will support major european projects that generate growth, competitiveness and employment, with considerable leverage. however, only 11 of the 27 member states have such a tax in place at present, but there is no doubt that the benefits will soon far outweigh the reluctance to implement it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to improve the conditions for the transport of animals. without calling for a specific timetable (8 hours requested by the european parliament), i believe it is essential to set better limits on transport, conditions and duration, particularly as regards the journey to the slaughterhouses. on the basis of this report, the commission should propose a draft regulation in the near future.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of animals during transport. i believe that uniform implementation of existing european legislation on the transport of animals in the member states should be a priority in order to ensure the best possible protection of animal welfare. as a result of this standardisation, dissuasive and proportionate sanctions will be able to ensure full compliance with this legislation. however, i consider that a limitation of the transport time for animals for slaughter to eight hours is an excessive proposal because it is not based on any scientific basis. i therefore opposed this amendment.
in writing. since 2007, the european union has had legislation on the transport of animals to the place of slaughter. but these rules are accompanied by sporadic checks and often silly penalties, which lead some carriers to infringe: animals not watered or fed, failure to comply with rest periods required for long journeys or underestimated declarations of travel times. at the same time, the number of animals transported into the eu has increased sharply, with a 70% increase in pigs between 2005 and 2009. one third of these journeys take eight hours or more, increasing the health risks. to overcome these difficulties, which are sometimes linked to misinterpretations of european legislation, it is urgent that the commission publish appropriate explanatory and guidance documents. finally, to avoid unnecessary transport of animals over long distances, the eu should also help to create shorter supply chains to end the decline of small local slaughterhouses and promote meat processing at local level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because animal welfare is a key consideration when transporting animals. we cannot accept the loss of livestock, the deterioration of health or stressful situations caused by transport alone. i have already supported the written declaration no 49/2011 from 2011 limiting the transport time for animals destined for slaughter to eight hours. i therefore await a legislative proposal from the european commission which takes account of the european geographical and social reality and scientific facts to improve animal welfare in this area.
in writing. at the plenary session on 12 december, i supported the report by my colleague janusz wojciechowski. the report was adopted by 555 votes in favour, 56 against and 34 abstentions. this is a balanced ratio which aims to improve the welfare of animals during transport. in his report, janusz wojciechowski advocates, in particular, the implementation of dissuasive and proportionate sanctions for effective compliance with european legislation, the slaughter of animals as close as possible to their place of rearing and, finally, the creation of training for transport companies and transporters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the protection of animals during transport to encourage member states to put in place existing rules and to impose more dissuasive penalties where they are not respected. in order to avoid unnecessary transport of animals over long distances, the eu should promote short supply chains and take measures to end the decline of local slaughterhouses.
in writing. the number of animals transported in the eu from their place of production to the slaughterhouse has increased sharply in recent years - by 70% in the case of pigs, for example. a third of these trips took eight hours or more, often in precarious conditions. this resolution calls for better protection of animals during transport. i support it. this requires first of all better application of existing legislation in this field in the member states (better implementation, increased inspections and controls, dissuasive sanctions for infringers). while it is desirable to limit the transport time of animals to the slaughterhouse to 8 hours - with geographical and scientifically justified exceptions for certain species - this is not sufficient: the welfare of animals also depends on adequate equipment in the vehicle and their proper treatment during transport. i am also convinced of the need to create short and transparent supply chains, to take measures to stop the decline of small local slaughterhouses and to promote meat processing at local level. this would help to limit the transport of animals over long distances and thus to reduce unnecessary suffering.
in writing. despite very protective legislation, problems remain during animal transport leading to serious ill-treatment, mainly due to weak implementation of these regulations by member states. in this report, parliament therefore warns of these delays in transpositions, encourages the member states to remedy them and also advocates the introduction of these european standards on animal welfare in bilateral trade negotiations with third countries. the report also calls for the development of mobile slaughterhouses or small regional slaughterhouses to avoid unnecessary transport of animals over long distances and to try to halt the decline of small local slaughterhouses and promote meat processing at local level. finally, the question of the limitation of the transport time for animals destined for slaughter to eight hours is raised again. this would be a good thing for animal welfare but it cannot be done without taking account of transport conditions. that is why, despite the good intentions of this report, i abstained.
in writing. this report presents the state of fundamental rights in the european union. this is a sensitive subject at european level, because it affects the most intimate convictions of our peoples, which differ from one country to another. fundamental rights must be respected everywhere. in this spirit, i stood out by wanting to support a provision explicitly denouncing the abuses of the current hungarian government. it is important to be able to criticise such behaviour, including within one's own political family. i abstained on the whole of this text, some of the provisions of which i do not think are relevant, without, however, wishing to block its adoption.
in writing. the fight against discrimination and respect for human rights are principles on which the union is built. these values of europe are enshrined in its founding texts, in community law and in the european charter of fundamental rights. to preserve these european acquis, member states must ensure that they guard against any drift towards certain minorities, in particular members of the roma community, lgbt people, disabled people, migrants and asylum seekers. the european union must actively combat any increase in racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic or other acts that undermine media pluralism and freedom. to this end, the european agency for fundamental rights was set up to monitor and prevent any shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights. the commission must be able to benefit from the necessary resources and multiannual strategies to be effective in its mission.
in writing. the report by mrs flasikova benova, a socialist, is a kind of synthesis of all the well-thought-out, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-feeling, well-being, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-behaved, well-beha but by saying that, am i not making a speech of "hate and stigmatization" against ms. flasikova? if i add that his vision of the family, of compulsory sex education from an early age, of discrimination against roma in "access to property" (i quote), of "active" ageing (old people at work!), to name a few, seems delusional, do i not express these prejudices, which, according to them, should fall under the harshest law? given the way the debates have been conducted in the libe committee, which i have been told has been transformed for the occasion into the committee of public safety, with its hysterical robespierre-like members forbidding any objection, i am afraid! but by the way, in the flasikova version of european democracy, do i still have the right to vote against his report?
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which gives an uncompromising overview of the situation of fundamental freedoms in the union and calls on the institutions and the member states to redouble their efforts to ensure that they are respected for all persons within the union. i regret that, because of the opposition of the conservatives, this strong message from the european parliament has not been the subject of a wider consensus. our vigilance over the human rights situation in other parts of the world and our desire to set an example cannot be credible if the union does not guarantee respect for them on its own territory. the resolution does not omit any of the issues: the rights of migrants and lgbt people, access to the ivg, the rise of extremist parties... i believe in particular that the demands made by the european parliament on the rights of prisoners are very important. i therefore very much hope that the commission will propose a legislative initiative on common minimum standards of detention and appropriate monitoring mechanisms, as this resolution calls for.
in writing. there are still some very worrying situations in europe, and we must always make greater efforts to ensure respect for fundamental rights. i would particularly like to stress the work that still needs to be done within the european union to ensure the protection of minorities, and in particular the roma. these populations are subject to constant discrimination and there is a regrettable increase in violence against them. i am also concerned about the situation of migrants. like the majority of my colleagues in the european parliament, i call on the member states to allow access to health care for migrants, including those in an irregular situation, with particular attention to pregnant women and children. i also support the idea of continuous assessment of the respect for fundamental rights in the union. europe must remain credible in this field, particularly in view of the union's accession to the european convention on human rights.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the parliament's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union and the fact that the action of a section of the epp to undermine this resolution has been thwarted. parliament rightly points out the constant drift of the union and of part of the political spectrum in the defence and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the union. i would have liked to see more clear condemnation of certain violations (the curtailment of civil liberties in the fight against terrorism and crime, the stigmatisation of immigrants and minorities, scapegoating of the crisis, etc.). i regret in particular the rejection of the gue/ngl amendments on the impact of budgetary and economic measures on economic and social rights, which are entitled to the same recognition as civil and political rights. in adopting this report, parliament is living up to its reputation as a defender of fundamental rights. the condemnation of the commission should be followed by action, putting pressure on the commission and especially on the council to be more incisive in respecting fundamental freedoms and rights in the territory of the union.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to congratulate mr donskis on his excellent report and the spirit of conciliation he has shown. this annual report has a special resonance because the eu has finally come up with a strategy and action plan in the field of human rights. a special representative for human rights has just been appointed. the new financial instruments for development and cooperation for the next six years are at the heart of the negotiations between the institutions. all these elements require a long-term strategic vision. that is why i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr rui tavares, on his report. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a good one. we are at a key geopolitical moment. since the arab spring, it is essential to learn from our mistakes, from our too close links with many autocracies and repressive regimes, in order to face the new challenges in the sahel and syria, and to support democratic transitions at the doorstep of europe. i am still perplexed by the lack of political will in our parliament which has just approved the trade agreements with peru and colombia. despite the clear and objective criteria put in place to assess the respect of human rights before agreements are signed, business as usual continues. for two years now, human rights defenders and trade unions in latin america have been sounding the alarm about the dangers of such trade agreements, which will have devastating effects on indigenous peoples, farmers and the environment. the union prides itself on making respect for human rights a priority of its foreign policy. on monday, on world human rights day, mrs ashton said that respect for the rights of democracy and the rule of law was the guiding principle of the union's foreign policy. but we have ignored the calls of ngos and the citizens of peru and colombia by relegating human rights and environmental protection standards to a status of figment in these trade agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consistency, efficiency, visibility, i would add courage. these are the key words that must be the basis of our european human rights policy. we have a responsibility as europeans. my dear colleagues, we must go faster and further. the declarations of intent on human rights are no longer enough. we must firmly condemn any violation of human rights, call for ambitious policies and take exemplary measures against third countries which fail to respect their rights and duties. i hope that the criteria and respect for human rights will be followed up with ambition and that the commission will undertake to give parliament follow-up reports on each state. it is essential to define priorities, realistic targets and political sanctions for each country in order to allow more effective union action and measurable results. we must live up to what we stand for. i believe that our policy is concrete and visionary, because the european union has strategic assets and instruments to exploit and we must adopt an effective approach. we must also have confidence in the action and work of our new special representative for human rights. my dear colleagues, in 2012, we were awarded the nobel peace prize. let us all hope that in 2013 europe will receive the prize for respect for human rights.
in writing. every year, the foreign affairs committee, of which i am a member, assesses the situation of human rights and democracy in the world and the role and actions of the eu in this field. the most important point for me this year is the appointment of a special eu representative for human rights, the greek stravros lambrinidis. but there is also the implementation of the 'more for more' principle, the new guideline for all eu external action; the eu has also adopted a new policy framework and action plan for human rights. the report also calls for greater coherence between all the union's actions and methods in this area and recalls the crucial role played by eu delegations abroad. these are two arguments which i make regularly, but which are still too seldom heard, particularly from the european commission and the external action service. that is why, like the vast majority of my colleagues, i supported this report, which i hope will put these principles at the forefront of the priorities of the union's external action.
mr president, we all know that what is happening in egypt is very serious. the economic situation is catastrophic. the european union is facing a political crisis and an institutional, constitutional and democratic crisis. and i think our questions are entirely legitimate. we have the right to ask questions about the content of the text which is to be put to the referendum. in fact, instead of preventing abuse, i feel that this proposal leaves the door open to all interpretations and indeed to all abuse in the field of gender equality, the protection of minority rights and public freedom. so i'm wondering, and secondly, i'm also wondering about the climate. this climate, we can see it very well - extremely heavy violence, very strong divisions between pro-islamists and anti-islamists - this climate is not conducive to holding a referendum. i would add that the egyptians have no information about the vote. this was confirmed by blogger mahmoud salem yesterday by phone, and that 90% of the judges have now refused to supervise this referendum. so, yes, we can ask ourselves. i think that president morsi should show signs of calm, should resume dialogue, should resume consultation, listen to the quite legitimate concerns of the opposition and make a gesture by postponing, why not, the date of this referendum. i believe that nothing is ever achieved by force and that the foundation of a democracy cannot be laid by force. as for the european union, you said, madam minister, that the union could not impose anything. yes, perhaps she can't impose anything, but she can speak and she can make her demands loud and clear.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam minister, the palestinian authority and mahmoud abbas are using the tools of international law and diplomacy. the israeli government has once again chosen force, violence and the deliberate violation of international law. our institutions - parliament, council and european commission - can no longer tolerate a government, a state with which we have an association agreement, the israeli government unilaterally deciding to retaliate against a decision by a large majority of the un general assembly on 29 november 2012 recognising palestine as an observer state. our european institutions must become instruments for the enforcement of international law, oppose the decision of the state of israel to confiscate taxes on palestinian imports, continue the destruction of houses in jerusalem, and demand an immediate end to the settlement and the return of stolen land. to allow further settlement, particularly in the so-called e1 area, would be tantamount to preventing the establishment of a palestinian state and therefore to denying the vote of the un general assembly. on the contrary, we should reaffirm that the west bank, gaza and jerusalem together make up palestine. the israeli state is all the more guilty because it is in total contradiction with the signature it affixed to the geneva convention in 1951, article 49 of which prohibits the establishment of new populations in territory conquered as a result of a conflict. i read the article: "the occupying power shall not deport or transfer any part of its own civilian population to the territory it occupies". israel signed it. we must ourselves enforce this. it is in this sense that my group, the european united left and the nordic green left, supports the joint motion for a resolution, reaffirming the spirit of justice and the rule of law against the logic of domination and force.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unhcr announced last night that half a million syrian refugees have been registered in all the countries neighbouring syria, and that number is growing, at around 3 000 people a day. among this half million are men, women and children who are violently uprooted from their homes and countries, people fleeing from tragic living conditions, massacres, torture, fleeing from war and what can be clearly described today as genocide and which is unquestionably a matter for international criminal justice. these people who have lost everything will arrive at the borders of the union. we must therefore be prepared and take account of the experiences of the recent past. last year europe was faced with a massive influx of refugees fleeing the arab spring revolutions in tunisia and libya, and we saw a great many failures, the lack of help for the many boatpeople in the mediterranean, the lack of coordination, and also the lack of european solidarity. of the 700 000 people who had fled the violence, the eu had agreed to take in only 400, as many as norway alone. last year, the arab spring brought a massive influx of refugees and europe, sadly and shamefully, has done little to respond to the plight of these thousands. in the face of the dramatic syrian situation, i think we need to take a comprehensive and responsible approach. you propose measures, but i think the solution must be global and that various points must be taken into account. on four planes, very quickly. firstly, on a political level, we must recognize, as france has done and as president obama has just done this morning, i believe, the legitimacy of the opposition coalition, which will allow us to lay the foundations for the reconstruction of this country. secondly, we must secure the borders to prevent a fire in this fragile part of the world so close to europe. thirdly, on the humanitarian front, of course, we must accompany the humanitarian workers, create corridors of protection, bring food and health care, but coordinating this care. we realized yesterday when we met the partners of the train to syria that quite often the aid was entrusted to the regime of bashar al-assad. on a day-to-day basis, in terms of the reception of refugees, at a time when europe has just received the nobel peace prize, we must not only look back on our period of peace, but we must also be able to offer a refuge worthy of the name to the victims of this terrible war. commissioner, we know your determination and we will stand by you.
madam president, madam commissioner, i believe that we must act - as you know very well - in three directions. the first, in fact, is what is happening in syria: more than two million people are now displaced. it is at this level that it is most difficult to act. perhaps we should not give up on the call for a humanitarian corridor, on securing the few ngos and on securing the humanitarians who may be there. it is a complex issue that must not be abandoned either. the second direction is obviously - all my colleagues have said this - the 500,000 refugees who are now in the countries neighbouring syria, in particular, of course, lebanon, jordan, egypt and turkey. winter is coming and the camps are sometimes "hard" but also canvas... we know that more money will have to be spent to prevent these populations from suffering even more from the cold weather that is coming. we'll need more material and financial resources. the european union has already made an effort. she'll have to make an extra effort. i think you're all very aware of that. when we met with the turkish authorities, they told us that they were overwhelmed with the influx of refugees, and that it was very difficult. the third area of action concerns us, the european union. there are 16,000 asylum seekers today, which is not a lot. i think we need to harmonise the way we deal with asylum applications in all the member states. the conditions are sometimes a little too different and there are sometimes too many discards in a number of countries and member states. it is very important to have a joint action plan. it is also very important to support the countries that are on our own borders. i am thinking of greece, which may tomorrow see a very large influx of refugees, which it will not be able to handle. i do not want the european union to relive the nightmare of lampedusa and italy, and what happened during the war in libya. we must therefore, and you must, put in place a joint action plan to avoid this. we have a triple solidarity to exercise, we the european union. solidarity with the syrian refugees. that's the first thing we have to do. they have suffered too much and we owe them welcome and asylum. secondly, solidarity with the countries neighbouring syria, which are, in fact, on the front line and are hosting these hundreds of thousands of refugees, and, finally, solidarity with the member states, which are in the front line within our european union.
madam president, i fully support what marielle de sarnez has just said and i believe that the best response to the humanitarian crisis is indeed the birth of a political solution. in this respect, the conclusions of the council meeting the day before yesterday are to be welcomed, as they mark two decisive steps. the first is the recognition of the legitimacy of the syrian national council and the second is the decision to provide assistance to civil society and local authorities in support of the future transitional regime in syria. that said, i do not want our commissioner to talk about pressure on the member states because, as you yourself have said, it is a question of taking in 4% of what the countries bordering syria are taking in today. we are proud of having provided 53% of the total humanitarian aid. that's only about 11 million, which is the equivalent of what a country like turkey alone has provided to syrian refugees today, since the beginning of the conflict. so, again, no glory hole. on the other hand, we have a very clear message. we call on the countries bordering syria to open their borders. but what are we doing on the greek-turkish border? we have deployed, in addition to operation poseidon, operation aspida with 1,800 police officers, 26 floating barriers and 12 km of barbed wire. this is a disgrace for europe and i believe that the priority of priorities today, if we want to have political legitimacy in the search for a solution to the crisis in syria, is to be able to show solidarity in welcoming syrian refugees today in europe! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (9) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". it seems to me that the efforts that have been made specifically on the greek-turkish border since the syrian crisis to prevent syrian refugees from coming to european territory are a disgrace to the european union, i repeat. several thousand people were arrested as a result of these operations of police deployment of barbed wire and floating barriers. we must now, together with the asylum office, put in place a coordinated policy which is not based on the arms of greece, but on the joint responsibility of the member states of the european union. we must coordinate, evaluate and put in place mechanisms which will enable us to respond to the syrian crisis as long as it lasts.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank ms ždanoka for proposing that parliament gives its consent to the draft multiannual framework for the fundamental rights agency on the basis of the draft agreed by the council. i appreciate also the remarks made by the rapporteur to the effect that, while the situation is far from excellent, it would be better to accept it. we know that the fundamental rights agency plays an invaluable role in gathering comparative data, and we need such data as evidence to underpin our policies in the field of fundamental rights. so we need the agency to be able to continue its work. let me cite two examples that show how the agency has innovated in order to help us to carry out very far-reaching legislative or decision-making work at the level of the institutions. firstly, the agency played a crucial role in underpinning the effectiveness of our policies in relation to the roma minority. in 2012 the agency adopted a roma multiannual programme running up to 2020. it will provide us with the information we need to assess whether the member states’ efforts to integrate the roma population bring about real change in the daily life of the roma in terms of education, housing, health and employment. we need this information in order to take the next steps required. another example has been the agency’s work on access to justice and the survey on the perception of discrimination and hate crimes against lgtb people that the agency is conducting at the request of the commission. it plans to publish the results of the survey in 2013. these are only some examples of the very valuable work the agency conducts. they show why we need it to continue and why its work should not be interrupted. besides these very concrete actions, the agency also builds up strong methodologies and insights concerning the exchange of experiences and the identification of best practices. so all this is needed but unfortunately, as the rapporteur has already said, the good work of the agency is being jeopardised, as the council will not be in a position to adopt the multiannual framework for the agency by the end of december this year, as required by union law. we all knew about this deadline and we have put a lot of intense effort into working with the council. that is also the reason why there has been this concession to the council, which means that the agency will not be able to initiate work on police or judicial cooperation on criminal matters on its own initiative under the new multiannual framework. it can only work in this field if there is a request from parliament, from the council or from the commission. i really regret this solution and i will make a formal declaration to that effect when the proposal is formally approved. because — and this is a fundamental point — we cannot ignore the fact that we have a new treaty, the treaty of lisbon, with all its consequences. we do not have a pillar structure any more; there is only one european law. the fundamental rights agency needs to be able to collect data on fundamental rights in a comparable manner, including in the old ‘third pillar’ domains of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. but, as you know, when you have a unanimity rule you are blocked. there was no other option: to arrive at unanimity, concessions had to be made. despite all this, one member state has failed to take the necessary steps that would have ensured that the multiannual framework was adopted in time. the commission regrets this delay because it will have repercussions on the work of the agency and its staff, which will be in ‘caretaker mode’ as from january. this again shows that the requirement for unanimity is not a great help in our institutional work. the commission takes note that the justice ministers discussed this issue on 7 december in the council and that a request has been made to enable the agency to work during the interim period. this is a last-minute ‘patch’; fortunately we have this option, but in any case it is only a temporary solution. every effort should continue to be made by all the member states to ensure the swift adoption of the multiannual framework as early as possible in 2013. this is the only way to ensure that the agency can work at full speed to contribute to our work on the protection of fundamental rights. let me clarify nevertheless for this house that the multiannual framework which we are discussing is neither a work programme nor the instrument that establishes the powers and the tasks of the agency. the agency’s work programmes are adopted each year by the management board within the thematic areas determined by the multiannual framework. president, let me conclude by saying that the commission appreciates the sense of responsibility of the rapporteur and of parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of the sitting you mentioned that there were many women in the chamber. i am the ninth person to speak. there are also a few men. it was a bit like that last night, very late, in the debate on syria. let's get to the point. we decided in my group to vote against this draft council decision on the multiannual mandate of the fundamental rights agency because it excludes police cooperation and criminal justice from the mandate of the agency. i want to make it clear that we want a european policy that is strong on human rights and that is on par with the nobel prize we have just received, a strong policy that has given the agency increased powers of surveillance and sanctions. in this context, the rights agency must be even more independent in monitoring and denouncing, where appropriate, actions by europe or member states which violate human rights. the agency is doing an excellent job, commissioner, you have mentioned that and i thank you for that, and for the remarks you made last week on the agency day, which were marked by your courage and the clarity of your position on the situation. unfortunately, what we have on the table today is the opposite of all that. it's a kind of poison cake that we have a hard time digesting and should throw away. the council, at the insistence of some states, decided to deny the agency the possibility of working in these areas - the former third pillar - which is now communityised by the treaty. in fact, the council decision is in breach of the treaties and concerns the sector where the rights of european citizens are directly affected. all this is of serious concern to us, as my colleagues have said. the only thing that i think is more important is that some member states, including the united kingdom, have raised parliamentary reservations which prevent the mandate from coming into force in january 2013. these reservations will be raised in the spring. the agency will therefore not have a mandate for several months. to avoid all this, the council will therefore approve conclusions, which are a kind of "dubious" legal stratagem to enable the agency to work from january to april. mrs reding, you have just criticised the attitude of certain states which block the main european human rights issues, as well as other issues, and accession to the european convention on human rights. with just a few days to go until world human rights day, let me ask: is this how europe intends to deal with the populist, racist and partisan challenges facing our democracies and the rule of law? we as a parliament want to reject this concoction into which the council has dragged us. as a group, we are calling on the council, firstly, to revise its draft decision to bring it into line with the treaties and, secondly, commissioner, we are counting on you to propose in the coming months a revision of the agency's regulations to make it stronger, to make it even more independent - is it because it is effective that it is frightening the member states? - and that we succeed in developing a strong and powerful european policy on human rights, which respects democracy and the rule of law in europe.
mr president, mrs reding, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner olli rehn has argued in the press that fiscal consolidation policies are producing beneficial effects. this thesis, which is included in the annual growth review, may surprise us. wherever it has been meticulously applied by member states, this policy has not achieved the expected objectives of growth and deficit reduction. greece, which has cut its spending and wages, should be the most competitive economy in the world. it has become the most desperate society in europe. the international monetary fund has just indicated that it had underestimated the recessive impact of the consolidation policies which it had recommended in the troika. it indicates that the multiplier is higher than we thought. if it were to be in the order of 1.5, a decrease in expenditure of 10 000 million would each time lead to a contraction in gdp of 15 000 million. the effects of fiscal consolidation on confidence are not yet known. madam vice-president, dg ecfin is clearly the embodiment of what economists call the ricardian equivalence models. the latter argue that economic agents who anticipate future tax cuts will gradually increase their consumption and investment. however, in all countries where consolidation has involved reducing public expenditure in order to lower taxes, it has not produced the expected effects on growth, while the fall in tax revenues has not reduced deficits as expected. the error of dg ecfin is that the models it uses underestimate or even completely ignore the existence of the multiplier. in this case, is it because of scientific negligence, ignorance or ideological bias towards neoconservative policies that the commission refuses to revise its assumptions, as the imf has just done? more than ever, the annual growth review needs to be the subject of a debate. economic choices are not neutral. that is why democracy must decide. the annual growth review must be the subject of a legislative report.
my dear colleagues, do not get angry, you know me. since we wanted to ask mr schulz to make a statement to the council, the answer has already been given. a simple fact, ladies and gentlemen: we are lawmakers, and we have to respect the law. that's what the court said. thank you very much.
mr president, it seems to me that because of an error in the continuation of the list, you have voted amendment no 9 instead of the original paragraph 47. however, in the voting instructions, at least in those of our group, there was an error on amendment no 9. could you put amendment 9 back to the vote?
mr president, can you stop playing politics and start to be a president; take a decision so that we can go on. please stop playing politics. (applause)
mr president, i simply want to let you know that i voted wrongly on amendment no 1. can you report it? the
mr president, there is a european council meeting this evening and tomorrow, and i would like to speak on the basis of article 15 of the treaty on european union. i did not see on the agenda of parliament that the president of the european council was to report, in accordance with paragraph 6 (d) of that article, on the results of that european council. could you tell me, mr president, what is the problem with the presentation of this report being on the agenda of this parliament?
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, as did a large majority of the parliament. the aim of the new regulation is to extend the powers of the european union agency for fundamental rights by strengthening judicial and police cooperation between the member states.
in writing. with this text, we set the mandate for the fundamental rights agency until 2017. with this mandate, it will guarantee the real and daily application of their fundamental rights to all europeans. i particularly welcome the inclusion of gender discrimination in its scope: the agency will be a key player in the fight for gender equality.
in writing. i share the regret of my colleagues that the council has not reached agreement on the new thematic areas proposed by the commission in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, has been the responsibility of the agency. in this sense, the council seems to be hindering any useful contribution by the agency to the protection of fundamental rights. the agency's multiannual framework for fundamental rights expires at the end of this year, and the agency needs new thematic areas to continue its work from the beginning of 2013. it is in this context that, despite these reservations, i have given my support to the new multiannual framework 2013-2017. we therefore ask to be consulted in the next revision of the 2007 regulation establishing the agency, to finally extend its field of competence to the former 3rd pillar.
in writing. every year, the european union takes stock of the state of human rights in the world. he was particularly concerned about the violations committed in china against many minorities such as the tibetans. i also voted for the call for the worldwide abolition of the death penalty, for the defence of the right to abortion and for an end to the imprisonment of people on the grounds of their sexual orientation. the european union, as a major economic actor and recipient of the 2012 nobel peace prize, has a special responsibility to address these issues and to promote respect for the most fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for greater coherence and cooperation between the union and its member states in human rights policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
in writing. we must ensure that human rights are effectively protected. it's not enough to just say good-will incantations. i particularly support the ambition of this text to make the most of existing instruments: it is a common sense proposal, which is essential to remember. the text proposes in particular the setting up or extension of exchange programmes with young people from the arab spring and third countries, in order to strengthen the links between their citizens and our member states: this is the condition for a genuine and strengthened dialogue with our partners, and i support this ambition.
in writing. based on both the 2011 communication on 'human rights and democracy at the heart of eu external action towards a more effective approach' and the new eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, this report underlines the need for coherence and cooperation between the union and its member states in human rights policy, calls for human rights clauses to be included in eu agreements with third countries and stresses the need to prepare human rights impact assessments before any negotiations are opened. it also calls for a new european neighbourhood policy with a focus on young people and civil society. it also recommended that interinstitutional cooperation be established and asked the european parliament to place human rights at the heart of its actions and policies. i fully agree with all these points and have voted in favour of it in the plenary.
in writing. the report presents the european parliament's recommendations on the negotiations which started in 2008 for a new eu-russia agreement which is intended to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement in force since december 1997. i voted in favour of this text because my political group included provisions calling for respect for fundamental freedoms and a requirement of reciprocity with russia.
in writing. russia is the european union's third largest trading partner. it is also a country of vital strategic importance in the political, energy, economic, environmental and cultural fields. it is therefore natural that the european union should seek to maintain a relationship of trust with it. the 1994 partnership and cooperation agreement needs to be modernised and extended, especially as russia has just joined the wto. in the context of the current negotiations on a more comprehensive association agreement, the european union must ensure that progress is made in russia with regard to respect for the union's fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law. russian political life is still too marked by the violation of these principles, as illustrated by the recent trial of the members of the pussy riot group, as well as by other cases of arrests and detentions for political reasons and repressive measures taken against the opposition. the eu must make the signing of this new agreement conditional on progress in respecting fundamental rights and on russia's strict observance of wto principles.
in writing. the hannes swoboda report contains the european parliament's recommendations to the council and the european commission on the opening of negotiations for a new agreement between the european union and russia. the new agreement, which is expected to replace the one signed in 1994, should provide a comprehensive, forward-looking and legally binding framework for the development of relations with russia in the future. russia is an important partner of the european union and that is why i voted in favour of this report and i welcome its adoption. i will remain vigilant on the outcome of the negotiations but have full confidence in russia to continue its efforts with regard to respect for the rule of law or democracy. both the eu and russia stand to gain from a successful outcome of the negotiations.
in writing. this report is an anti-russian indictment. it is the very prototype of the european union's interest in human rights. he's asking russia to do what he's not asking the coup government in honduras to do before they ratify a free trade agreement. it even blames the russian government for the impasse in the negotiations, even as the eu endorses the deployment of nato's missile shield on the russian border. he denounced russia's selective trade diplomacy but refused to negotiate with the common economic area at least until an agreement was reached with russia alone. the energy issue, which is at the heart of the matter, is mentioned only once. i denounce the narrow-minded imperialism and bad faith that are concentrated in this report. i vote against it.
in writing. i supported this text, adopted by the european parliament, which calls on israel to promote dialogue with palestine rather than continue the expansion of settlements in the west bank. this behaviour undermines any chance of a calm approach to the negotiations and is illegal under international law.
in writing. the announcement by israel that it will build 3,000 additional housing units in east jerusalem and the west bank, including in the so-called e1 area, is extremely worrying. located between jerusalem and the settlement of maale adumim, where israel had pledged to the united states not to build, these new constructions would de facto link maale adumim to the settlement districts of east jerusalem. this announcement, following the un general assembly vote to grant palestine non-member observer status at the united nations, is likely to jeopardise the resumption of negotiations with a view to achieving a two-state solution. it is therefore very important that the israeli government reverse its decision and exercise restraint, because this attitude makes it even more difficult to resume direct dialogue between israel and the palestinians. the european union and its member states, together with the quartet countries, must continue their mediation and work fully to restart the peace process.
in writing. i vote in favour of this resolution. it reaffirms its support for the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders; it called for the immediate transfer of palestinian tax revenues which the israeli government had suspended. that's a good thing. i regret, however, that while the very purpose of the resolution was to condemn the announcement by the outgoing israeli government of new settlements and the withholding of palestinian tax revenues, the text is only capable of 'regret' and 'expressing deep concern'. i also regret that the text merely calls for the human rights clause of the eu-israel free trade agreement to be respected, without providing the means to do so. he does not ask for the freezing of the fund until this clause is respected. a soft consensus on minimum texts as soon as it comes to the rights of peoples, that is all this parliament is capable of doing.
in writing. the vote on this resolution, which i co-signed, is both good and bad news: good news because the vast majority of meps disapprove of the israeli strategy, which is in contradiction with the commitments of that state, and bad news because it highlights a new obstacle on the road to peace and is yet another call by our assembly to reach a resolution of this conflict which is poisoning the region. the decision of the israeli government to expand settlements in the west bank seriously undermines the prospect of creating two neighbouring, independent, peaceful and economically viable states in the middle east, one israeli and one palestinian, within the 1967 borders. it was also important that parliament should express its concern at the risk of a standstill and an escalation of violence. when we know that the israeli-palestinian conflict crystallizes all the rancor in the arab world, it goes without saying that the eu must do everything in its power to bring the two neighbours back to the negotiating table. any initiative that would ruin the peace efforts must be banned, lest it add to the provocation and despair of the two peoples who are destined to live side by side.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. it recalled the need to further develop relations with ukraine, but that this would only be possible when fundamental rights and democratic principles were fully applied in that country.
in writing. the 2012 elections in ukraine, which were supposed to serve as a test of the country's commitment to the rule of law and genuine democracy, were unsatisfactory and even showed some regression compared to previous elections. in particular, we were concerned about intimidation of candidates and election staff, unfair media coverage and numerous irregularities in the counting of votes. the resolution which has been adopted and which i supported by my vote therefore makes the signing of an association agreement with ukraine, an agreement to which the european union remains committed, conditional on concrete progress in the area of democratic principles.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is aimed at supporting the steel industry. the industry must become more competitive to be viable and responsive to changing conditions in european and non-european markets, as it is essential for growth and prosperity in europe.
in writing. our steel industry is a victim of the crisis, which is hitting it hard, and we have an obligation to protect it. with this text we want to speed up the action of the union: it is urgent to study the situation and make proposals quickly. i supported this text, which reaffirms our ambition to avoid the relocation of these high-technology industries outside europe: they are a model of know-how and a pool of skills and knowledge essential to our economy. the commission will draw up an action plan for the steel industry by june 2013: this resolution stresses the importance that this action plan should attach to the fight against high energy and raw material prices. they are a threat to our industry, and it is imperative that we seek solutions to the problems they create.
in writing. the european steel industry is currently suffering from a difficult international situation, but most experts believe that this phase of depression is temporary. it is therefore necessary to have a long-term european strategy to preserve our human know-how and our production potential, since steel products, starting with steel, are indispensable to many sectors of our industry, such as the automotive, construction, machine tools and energy transport sectors. some of these sectors require very sophisticated technology, and we cannot afford to lose or let go of the skills that make our countries' steel industry excellent. this is a matter of a very european dimension. we need to coordinate our industrial policies better to prevent the risks of relocation, to encourage research, particularly in ultra-low-carbon steelmaking processes (ulcos).
in writing. when we vote on the resolutions on the future of the european steel industry, we must ask ourselves only one question: is there in these texts a beginning of a beginning to safeguard the european steel industry? it is clear to us that the desire for intervention stops at the level of incantation! the european steel industry is the victim of unprecedented financial vampirisation, is facing unfair competition, is the object of organized robbery and theft of its know-how, ... the only proposals put forward are: 'we ask the commission to do well ...'. this positioning is not at all up to the challenge, and we would even say that, by its very nature, it is far too cold, and it gives free rein to the destructive will of international groups like mittal. however, tens of thousands of jobs are at stake, unique know-how is about to be stolen from us, entire territories are about to find themselves in dramatic social situations ... the steel industry, like the european industry, needs other answers. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to help the regions in the community to meet the needs of the population. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. in the present context, and i am thinking in particular of the situation with the blast furnaces in florange, it is imperative that the european union take up the subject of the steel industry in europe and help to curb this crisis which threatens the future of 360 000 jobs spread over 50 sites in 23 member states. recognising that the future of the sector requires coordinated national responses and european intervention, the european parliament has voted in favour of a european steel action plan to be presented by the european commission by june 2013. what an irony for the eu when this sector is at the origin of european construction! yet steel is one of the most traded industrial materials in the world. the european sector accounts for 1.4% of the eu's gross domestic product and a turnover of around €200 billion. it is time we imposed more reciprocity in our trade with shared social and environmental standards. president sarkozy himself had pledged during the presidential campaign to impose a carbon tax on the union's borders, as we already impose on our own companies. it is regrettable that the european parliament has not adopted this solution.
in writing. parliament adopted a joint resolution containing an action plan for the steel industry. given the recent difficulties faced by many sites, including florange in france, i felt it was necessary to adopt this text in order to improve competitiveness and encourage investment. the european steel industry is facing a sharp decline in demand, linked in particular to increased competition from imports from third countries which apply different regulations. we therefore urge the commission to monitor closely the development of the factories threatened.
in writing. there are two very positive points in this resolution. it states, and i quote, 'that it is in the interest of the european union as a whole to preserve the activities which feed its industrial fabric' and that 'high-tech industries such as the steel industry must be preserved by taking immediate measures to prevent their relocation outside the european territory'. both statements are relevant. it is a pity that the epp and sd groups, which are co-signatories of this text, do not draw any conclusions from it. the text reaffirms the rule of free and undistorted competition within the european union and in the world and merely calls for relocations to be made in 'strict compliance with eu competition law'. it merely invited the commission to 'monitor closely the future development of the factories' in florange and elsewhere. i am voting against this inconsistent text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the steel industry is in crisis in europe. its maintenance is vital to our economy. it employs thousands of people and is a key link in the automotive, construction and mechanical industries. the preservation of our industrial and scientific know-how is a commitment which must be honoured. however, the steel industry is not resisting the pressure of unfair competition from certain countries, which are driving down prices by imposing lower social and environmental standards than ours. this is not sustainable. this resolution is in the right direction when it calls on europe to impose fairer trade, the same rules of the game for all at international level (reciprocity). i also regret that a very small majority of my colleagues did not have the courage to demand a carbon tax at our borders. we ask our industry to limit its impact on the environment, so it is only right that we should ask the same of industries that export to our markets. but nothing is lost yet. i shall have occasion very shortly to remind the european parliament of this.
author. - mr president, in the democratic republic of the congo, one word alone sums up the ills that have been eating away at that region for decades: makala! makala is a gold mine in the north of the democratic republic of congo, a symbol of the plundering of natural resources that is destabilizing the entire great lakes region. european multinational corporations are accused of participating in the corruption of local rebel groups and of hunting down local miners to expand their influence and seize the most lucrative land. makala is also the location of the main prison in kinshasa, where, again, impunity and corruption are rampant. the congolese government, as in the mineral regions, is non-existent. the prison administration is totally lacking. military prisoners make the law and demand that civilian prisoners bail them out. thousands of people, never tried or convicted, are crowded into this virtual death chamber. makala, a gold mine or an abandoned prison, is the symbol of these lawless areas. lasting peace in the democratic republic of congo requires the restoration of the rule of law, a real fight against the impunity that has plagued the entire region for too long. peace must not be at the expense of justice. we need to be clear. any peace agreement must exclude immunity or amnesty for war criminals like bosco ntaganda, the terminator, who set fire to this country and shed blood and are still not worried. fighting impunity in a country where nearly half a million women have been killed in 16 years is what dr mukwege, the tireless advocate for raped women, is trying to do. it's because he's exposing these atrocities and doing incredible work for these women that there's been an attempt on his life. we must condemn such acts in the strongest possible terms, but above all we must put pressure on the congolese government to ensure that this assassination attempt is investigated impartially and as quickly as possible. peace also depends, first and foremost, on greater social justice, that is, on a genuine sharing of natural resources.
