on behalf of the ecr group. – herr präsident – as we shall now have to get used to saying – on behalf of the ecr group, let me offer you my full congratulations on your election as president of this parliament and let me also thank jerzy buzek for all the work that he has done over the last two-and-a-half years. i have only had the pleasure of working with him for the last few weeks, but certainly he has been an extremely able and competent president and will be an extremely hard act for you to follow. mr schulz, you told der spiegel magazine just last week that apparently people are tired of decisions being made behind closed doors. i have to agree with that statement, but it is not without a certain irony given the manner of your election. you had a good majority here this morning; however, your victory was not overwhelming, as i am sure you will have observed. let me also thank diana wallis and my colleague nirj deva for turning this into an election rather than a coronation. they should both be very proud of the efforts that they have made to have a full debate about the office of president, about what it should involve and how it should be conducted. mr deva obviously fought the election in his typical low-profile manner and we are certainly very pleased with the way that he proceeded! nevertheless, mr president, you are in the chair now and we wish you well over your next 30 months in office. from our group you can expect courtesy, you can expect respect for your office and we will work constructively with you despite our obvious political differences. i did not agree with many of the statements that you made this morning, but that is a debate we will have on many other occasions, i am sure. that is the nature of democracy: we all respect each others’ points of view even when we differ. i hope that you will treat all groups equally, and all members equally and with great respect for the elected office that they hold, whatever the section of this house that they come from. your first major engagement will be representing this house at the european council meeting in a couple of weeks’ time. i am sure that all the heads of government and presidents are greatly looking forward to hearing what you have to say – after all they have not heard from many socialists round the council table recently, so i am sure they will be pleased to have your reflection on these issues. in that meeting, and in all other meetings that you have to conduct as president, i would like to wish you all the best for your term in office. (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president – president schulz – good morning to you. i know it is my job to congratulate you but, given that we knew this result two-and-a-half years ago, as a result of a stitch-up, there really does not seem to be much point. after all, nobody in modern-day europe would ever have a big, powerful job that was decided upon by a full, open process. i am sure mr barroso would agree. i was musing this morning. i was thinking about what kind of president schulz we were going to get. are we going to get a dignified, calm figure who behaves like the speaker of all great parliaments around the world, somebody who puts himself above politics and the nitty-gritty of the day-to-day arguments and is an ambassador, indeed a statesman? or are we going to get the martin schulz we have got to know since 2004 as leader of the socialist group? you know the one i mean: snarling, angry, unable to control his temper, intolerant of anybody with an alternative point of view, somebody who is contemptuous when, in free referendums, people have the temerity to vote ‘no’, somebody who is anti-british to his fingertips and does not like free markets? i was wondering which one we would get. well, your opening speech has settled that question for me. it is pretty clear that we are going to have two-and-a-half years of political fanaticism from the chair. i have to say that only a third world country, only a banana republic, would want to have an overtly political president of a parliament, but that is what we have got. mr schulz, i may represent the smallest group in this parliament, but i can tell you that it is a group whose ideas and whose views are now being echoed by a growing number of citizens right across this continent. i am sure you would agree that the opinion polls show that it is about 50-50 whether people think this eu is a good thing or a bad thing. what we represent is not anti-europeanism. that is not what it is about. we believe in nation-state democracy. we want a europe of trade, we want a europe of cooperation and we want a europe that is responsible. we do not want a europe that seeks to be a global superpower. we do not want a europe run by mr barroso and the commission, and the so-called community method. i will do my very best to provide political opposition to your presidency over the next two-and-a-half years and i hope you give us a fair hearing. (applause from the efd group)
mr president, could you explain to a simple soul like me why, if we have 14 candidates for 14 positions, who have already been ranked by the votes that were cast for them in the second ballot last night, we have to have another ballot instead of dealing with the important business that we should be dealing with, rather than making ourselves laughing stocks by having this vote again?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me welcome ms thorning-schmidt to the chamber this morning. from a uk perspective let me congratulate her on being the first member of the kinnock family to make it to the office of prime minister. it will be a great surprise to many in the uk that finally one has made it. denmark is an historic ally and the military personnel of denmark served with great distinction alongside personnel from my country, from france and from others in defence of the people of libya, and we owe you a great deal of gratitude for that. i welcome the fact that denmark is taking on the presidency at such a crucial moment, when europe stands on the brink of a political and economic catastrophe. my hope for the danish presidency is for some plain speaking. it is sometimes said that the most courageous act in politics is speaking truth unto power. the presidency has begun well with its frank assessment of the damage that a financial transaction tax would cause to the gross domestic product of europe. i hope the presidency will continue in this vein and tell all the leaders of the european union that the time has come to face the truth about the eurozone and about europe’s fundamental economic weaknesses, because the last council was a staggering missed opportunity. instead of facing reality, instead of tackling these problems, the council has embarked on yet another round of introspective, institutional navel-gazing. we must never forget that we are currently in the midst of not one but two great crises. the eurozone is the most immediate problem, but we must also not lose sight of the fact that europe faces a fundamental challenge to its international economic position. we are losing competitiveness in the global marketplace; we are falling behind more dynamic regions of the world. we are allowing bureaucracy to stifle enterprise and regulation to hamper innovation. as we work towards europe in 2020 we need a growth agenda which creates jobs and which encourages businesses. the european union must focus on stimulating economic reform and developing the single market. we therefore support some of the key priorities of the danish presidency. on the multiannual financial framework, we welcome the fact that it should be viewed in the context of needing to consolidate public finances. a budget that looks to the future, and not to the past, and a budget that strives for cost-effectiveness – as suggested in the programme – is very welcome from our point of view. we need all member states to take a similarly realistic, unrestrained view of the eu budget. we would like a budget freeze, and we want the focus on spending existing resources more efficiently and more effectively. we also look forward to the efforts of the presidency to emphasise the need to revitalise the single market, because we share the vision of europe as an open region for trade, an open region for investments. economic openness is also a precondition for increased growth and employment. much of the programme seems to use the language of the 21st century to describe tried and failed policies of the 20th century. the presidency programme speaks of more regulation, it speaks of a responsible economy, and it speaks of effective standardisation. all of us, politicians and officials, need to remember that every additional regulation comes at a cost. this must be paid for either by consumers when buying the goods or services or by workers who lose their jobs as employment is exported overseas. there are aspects of the programme that we would deplore; we are alarmed by some of the thinking behind initiatives in the field of external relations and in the field of justice and home affairs. the presidency should not, for instance, promote the commission’s proposal for a common corporate tax base. it should have the courage to try and kill off such an ill-conceived and dangerous proposal. with that, let me wish the danish presidency well and we look forward to working constructively with them to advance the cause that we all believe in.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have a question for my colleague, a danish member, about the european financial transaction tax, which the danish prime minister says they want to introduce very swiftly. does he agree with the danish minister of economic affairs, margrethe vestager, who said it would cost hundreds of thousands of jobs, or maybe he may agree with lene espersen, the former danish foreign minister, who described the tax as ‘bullshit’?
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask mr jørgensen whether it has occurred to him that the policies of the commission are creating a europe of mass unemployment.
mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister helle to this house. helle, i sat next to you in committee for many years and i know how determined and fair you are. you have said that the economic crisis is central, but i know that you and your team came very early to this house in a very organised way to deal with the issue of values, to deal with the issues of justice and home affairs. you have not shied away from these very sensitive and difficult topics. all of our countries, including yours, have had very difficult times with these issues. what you have done is to address, rather than shy away from, what you call the building blocks of legislation, which are made in the house. as co-legislators, we want you to please maintain your attention as a presidency on the difficult issues of schengen – one of the core values and building blocks of this community – the common asylum system and the victims package. these are building blocks, which, like the asylum and migration package, have been delayed for so long. we look to you, your presidency and your team for an effective move on these things. regarding the issue of hungary, we want to see some volume from the presidency, because we are a community of values as well as a community that wants to deal with the economic crisis, which is central. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i said that the economic crisis is of course central to the citizens of the european union and the danish presidency is paying attention to that. perhaps i should not have mentioned hungary; now i have the statutory question on hungary. the issue concerns values. the presidency has to take part, with this parliament, the council and the commission, in addressing issues which are of concern – in my country and in every other country – about fundamental values. it is not about the hungarian people; it is about the need to address the policy of the hungarian government, or the policy of any government that may – i stress, may – be breaching fundamental values. it is something that we need to care about but it is not, of course, the only issue that exists in terms of importance in this house.
mr president, the prime minister is taking on the presidency of the eu at a time when unacceptable behaviour threatens democratic principles. such behaviour has become endemic and institutionalised in the european union. in recent months we have seen elected leaders being bullied out of office and replaced by unelected technocrats, by an over-dominant german leader and her french poodle. with a possible new treaty on the way, the eu apparatchiks are desperately looking for a new way to include all 27 countries without the need for a referendum. so much for democracy. no wonder people across europe are rioting. the message is there for all to see, but the eu turns its head away. prime minister, you again hold the presidency at a decisive moment: the possible demise of the euro. at a time of crisis and uncertainty the eu is looking to the danish presidency for a strong lead. how telling it is that a country from outside the eurozone is taking the helm. the eu is looking to the imf to help bail out the troubled euro. how telling it is that the uk, a country from outside the eurozone, ridiculed and threatened here in december, has been asked to prop up the imf at this time.
mr president, i want first of all to welcome the priority to be given by the danish presidency to chronic diseases and specifically to diabetes. i applaud the input i believe my danish co-chair of the diabetes working group, christel schaldemose, has probably made to securing this commitment. diabetes is no longer a ticking bomb. the bomb has gone off and we are heading for 10% of our citizens having diabetes, with huge costs to our healthcare system. please will the danish presidency help to secure an eu diabetes strategy? in the remaining seconds i also want to repeat the question that guy verhofstadt put – and, hopefully, get an answer from the prime minister. what is the council doing to call hungary to account? there is a legal and constitutional crisis in hungary which is a real threat to european values of liberal democracy. i hope we are going to get a change to the traditional diplomatic club in the council, where none of the 27 call each other to account because of the ‘i’ll scratch your back if you scratch mine’ culture.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am sorry to have to admit it but i think i partly agree with mr cohn-bendit for a change! (cries of ‘oh!’ from the floor) not on all of what he said, obviously, but certainly the bit about the uselessness of this treaty because, while it might well succeed in solving the next crisis – and it may well have prevented this crisis if it had been part of the original treaty on monetary union – it was not and is not going to do anything to solve the immediate difficulties. what is worse, if anything, is that the european council diverted valuable political energy and resources away from facing the reality of the crisis. in the aftermath, what we have seen from many quarters is an attempt to make scapegoats out of those who neither caused the problem nor have the power to implement a solution. perhaps this is in order to distract attention from the glaring failure of the summit. i also agree completely with the finnish foreign minister who said earlier this week that this whole contract is at best unnecessary and at worse harmful, and that finland has reason to oppose the entire treaty. congratulations to him for speaking the truth for a change. but furthermore, let me say a word about the attacks that we have seen in this parliament, and from the commission, on the ratings agency. it is a little bit like blaming the weather forecasters for the rain in brussels – and when the commission announces that it intends not to tackle the problem but rather to regulate the way in which it is reported, then i know we really are in serious trouble! let us speak plainly, because the recommended medicine for many of the eurozone members at the heart of the crisis will kill the patient long before it can possibly achieve a cure. they are being asked to make ultimately futile gestures, and not to pursue serious solutions, because their debts in many cases are simply unsustainable and their fundamental uncompetitiveness is not being addressed by any of these measures. the obligations of continued eurozone membership are strangling the prospects of economic growth for a generation. in the medium term they need substantial economic reform; in the short term, frankly, they need devaluation. the proponents of this treaty are, in my view, deluding themselves and attempting to delude the rest of us.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is a very bad case of denial in this chamber this morning, a total refusal to accept that the euro project is failing. greece is on the verge of a default. the bail-out fund is creaking. the credibility of the european central bank itself is now being called into question. it is all on the verge of going belly-up, and yet when the credit rating agencies tell the truth you try and pretend it is not happening. in fact mr brok and others were suggesting that it is all some dastardly plot by the americans, the british and the anglo saxon markets to bring down the euro. the agencies are nothing more than the canary in the mine. they are telling you the truth, so please listen to standard and poor’s when they say that austerity alone will not work. you are driving these countries into depression just to save your euro project. but i must acknowledge that you have lost absolutely nothing when it comes to your powers of deception. no, that is still very much on course. it was nick clegg who gave us the clue – a man who, i suspect, is rather more popular here than he is back home these days. clegg was asked whether there should be a referendum on the forthcoming treaty. he said there was no need for that because it was all going to be ‘folded into’ the existing treaties. i thought, ‘what the dickens is he talking about?’ well, now i have learnt. mr cohn-bendit made it clear: it is to be the ‘community method’. it is to be legislation where you know you have a majority in this parliament and you know, under qualified majority in the council, you can get everything through. why are you doing it this way? it is simple, is it not? – it is to avoid referendums. because you know that if a treaty was put to ireland and many other countries, the answer would be ‘no’. the peoples of europe do not want this sado-monetarist package. the peoples of europe, particularly in the case of the south, need to get out of the euro, to have devaluation and a chance to re-establish themselves again. you are denying them that chance and, by pushing the ‘community method’, you are destroying democracy in europe. i hope you are all very proud of yourselves.
in writing. − the ecr group would like to express its support to the member states involved in developing the intergovernmental treaty. the intergovernmental approach is one that we should fully support. it is right that democratically elected governments are free to enter into such agreements. we delude ourselves if we think that the european parliament is the only institution with a democratic mandate. the community method that so many in the european parliament adore is a time-consuming process and not one that is well suited to resolving the current crisis. the parliament is not only wrong about the process of this agreement, but also the content. the introduction of a financial transaction tax will do nothing to solve the current crisis. indeed, the commission’s own impact assessment demonstrates that its introduction will make all our constituents poorer. the solution to this crisis is not, as many in this house believe, more europe.
in writing. − i have voted for this resolution, not because i am enamoured of the content of the so-called six-pack (i voted against much of it) or because the euro is the way forward for all – it is not. i am supporting it because i want decision making on matters of direct interest to the eu to be taken within a clear legal framework and on a clear legal basis. i regret the british government’s refusal to support concerted eu action and thus assist a push towards this new arrangement. an intergovernmental agreement can inhabit a grey zone, out of clear parliamentary oversight. we need clear parliamentary oversight: from both the ep and national parliaments, and this resolution states that clearly. the proposed intergovernmental agreement also sees governments stepping back from decisions made a few weeks ago, and this does not increase confidence or legal certainty. as the resolution clearly states, we need investment, not just austerity. we need a change of direction – towards a different future, based on reducing the gap between rich and poor and on new investment to help us work within environmental limits. the intergovernmental agreement is a distraction and provides no real solutions.
in writing. − i supported this resolution and the call for proper democratic oversight of those measures agreed by eu governments in response to the current eurozone crisis. however, i do not support the ‘austerity only’ approach in the conclusions of the european council of 8/9 december. we need more action for jobs and growth. i do not support the current right-wing council’s flawed economic approach being integrated into the eu treaties. the most appropriate and democratic method to tackle the crisis is through legislation under existing eu treaties. it is clear that any measures concerning the european monetary union under the eu treaties will only apply to the eurozone and those countries opting in. it is important to insist that any proposals put forward by the european commission should undergo scrutiny by the european parliament.
in writing. − labour meps supported the call for proper democratic oversight of those measures agreed by eu governments in response to the current eurozone crisis. however, we do not support the ‘austerity only’ approach in the conclusions of the european council of 8/9 december 2011 and we also need to see more action for jobs and growth. we therefore could not support the current right-wing council’s flawed economic approach being integrated into the eu treaties. the most appropriate and democratic method to tackle the crisis is through legislation under the existing eu treaties. it is clear that any measures concerning european monetary union under the eu treaties will apply only to the eurozone and those countries opting in. we insist that any proposals put forward by the european commission should undergo scrutiny by the european parliament and would only support measures that are well designed and in the interests of british and eu citizens.
in writing. − mr president! i find myself in agreement with much of the text, especially the references to the need for the 27 different states of the eu to work together to resolve this aspect of the financial crisis. the government of my own member state, the uk, has been uniquely unconstructive: achieving nothing other than undermining the efforts of the others to resolve a difficult situation. sadly, the motion also included extraneous references to additional taxes, a redemption fund and eurobonds. while these may well be worth exploring, i do not believe we know enough about the implications of present proposals to back them actively as part of the solution. so i abstained, with some regret, on the final vote.
in writing. − i voted for this joint resolution concerning the 8-9 december 2011 summit as it: suggested that financial and economic consolidation could be achieved through eu law, not intergovernmental agreements (ia) or eu treaties; recognised the draft ia did not reflect european parliament (ep) priorities; supported a stronger role for democratic input from the ep and welcomed inclusion of a parliamentary working group and gave all eu members (including the uk) participation rights in discussions. the draft ia is still being developed, and already there are moves from member states to dilute the fiscal requirements identified at the december summit (including the so-called ‘golden rule’). for the single currency to work there needs to be strong economic and fiscal union between eurozone (ez) members. i am not yet convinced that the ez states will finally agree to necessary strict controls, and i am glad the uk is not part of it. i believe it is in the uk’s best interests to have a strong and stable euro, given that 40% of our trade is with ez countries. for that reason, and the fact it was the only option achievable at this stage, i supported the resolution.
in writing. − i believe that we need an effective and long-lasting solution to europe’s financial crisis. however, i voted against this resolution because of the federalist nature of its proposals and its resolute yet ultimately futile attempts to push for an eu-wide financial transaction tax (ftt). this resolution calls for the use of the ‘community method’ to create a fiscal and economic union. i am glad that the uk remains outside the eurozone. giving up your national currency is bad enough, but i cannot imagine giving brussels the power to scrutinise every penny the british government spends. the financial crisis in europe is serious; i cannot understand why parliament is wasting its time in recommending an eu ftt. taxation requires the unanimous approval of all 27 member states and the uk has made it unambiguously clear that it will block such a tax as it would disproportionately affect my home constituency of london. the commission’s own statistics reveal that the ftt would cost long-term growth in the eu eur 220 billion with a 90 % decline in derivatives trading. members of the european parliament must dismount both their high horse and their hobbyhorse and realise that the ftt is a complete non-starter.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for a treaty on climate change to be meaningful, all the major emitters in the world must be a part of it. the durban platform gives us a roadmap for a binding legal treaty to combat climate change. everyone in the world, including the major emitters – the united states, india and china – must be committed to this goal. the roadmap gives us a realistic timetable to negotiate a new agreement by 2015. the reason durban was successful? because it is not overly ambitious. it is not an ‘all or nothing’ summit like copenhagen. also, the european negotiators and the british negotiating team were able to persuade a broad coalition of countries to commit to commit. richer developing countries have agreed to do their bit, and the poorest countries will receive assistance to cope with climate change through a green climate fund. i hope the eu will continue with this positive approach.
mr president, the commissioner’s achievement of a deal on an agreement with legal force by 2015 is a significant step in the development of responsible stewardship for our planet. to me, the significance of durban lies not just in an agreement between governments, but in a consensus among the peoples of the world in that great tented city outside the conference hall, speaking many tongues, but with one global language of common concern. their sense of urgency needs to be matched by government action. our greatest ally may yet be the world’s largest emitter of co2 – china’s recent second national assessment report on climate change warns its government that action is urgently needed. the union must work with china to build a coalition of the willing to hand down a healthy planet to future generations. the recent ipcc report on extreme weather events ought to convince the usa and canada. what can the commission do to counter the detestable and irresponsible behaviour on their part that imperils humankind and bring them into the new alliance? among all the praise for the durban platform, please remember that a halo is only ever 25 centimetres from being a noose. we must change our action in the european union. commissioner, we know what we need to do. we have the technology to do it. our union will be judged by how fast it can muster the political will.
mr president, in discussing durban, the most obvious question is whether an agreement last year to reach an agreement in three years’ time to do something in eight years’ time is really an agreement at all. likewise, one has to ask whether the agreement to create a green climate fund and transfer usd 1 billion a year from hard-pressed taxpayers in countries like britain to corrupt third world oligarchies reflects a serious threat of global communism or a happily unattainable fantasy. given the way in which eu commissioners are forcing economically suicidal spending cuts on the protectorates of greece and italy – a move likely to spark a chain-reaction implosion of the entire financial system – the fantasy answer is fortunately the more realistic. but the most significant thing about durban is what was not discussed: climate science. this is no surprise, as it is now crystal clear that the so-called scientific consensus on man-made global warming simply does not exist. it is not just a matter of the thousands of independent scientists who dispute the whole theory: even the warmists themselves now admit that the computer models on which the anthropogenic global warming (agw) cult is based are simplistic and flawed. the more they learn about feedback mechanisms and the complexity of real climate, the more they realise they do not know. to crucify our taxpayers and de-industrialise our economies in pursuit of the one-world government madness of the united nations is therefore crazy. hence the failure of 10 000 well-meaning tax-eaters to agree anything serious in durban is to be warmly applauded.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) (recast) [07906/2/2011 - c7-0250/2011 - 2008/0241(cod)] (rapporteur: karl-heinz florenz) (a7-0334/2011).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i say how nice it is to see you back in the chair again this week. in my view, this recast was proposed by the commission as a consequence of failure – the failure by member states to put in place effective recycling systems for electrical equipment in the 2003-2008 period – because in 2008 over 70% of waste electronics was still being landfilled, incinerated or illegally exported. that simply was not good enough. we all agreed on that. it was interesting to hear how much the greens have apparently put into this, but i would like to lay its success clearly at the door of karl-heinz florenz, the rapporteur, who worked so hard on getting a good solution. so now we have some changes. they are mostly welcome, but we do need to make sure that they will contribute to improving the situation. collection targets have been considerably adjusted, both in their methodology and their ambition. some member states have been given more time. i approve of that because, if we want to work with them, they need to build effective systems. i am happy that member states have retained significant control over many aspects – particularly financial – and especially welcome the fact that we have avoided any attempts at compulsory increases in costs for municipalities. but with this flexibility comes responsibility for member states. i believe that consumers want to be able to recycle and reuse effectively, particularly in this challenging economic environment, so they must have the information and the opportunity to do so. member states now have a flexible framework that we have worked very hard to deliver. the ball is now in their court to deliver their side.
madam president, europe is still dumping on its neighbours despite all our present laws and regulations. too much of our waste is ending up polluting the lives of africans. this is a very toxic waste stream pouring out of europe. it is immoral on two fronts, financial and environmental: financial because much of the minerals and chemicals we export have been imported into europe and we have paid good money for them – we are wasting what could and should be used again – but also environmental because these countries cannot deal with our waste. through the burning and physical handling of this toxic waste, vast natural areas, as well as men, women and children, are polluted and chemically burned. these renewed proposals are much overdue – and i thank the rapporteur – but they will be worthless unless we enforce their provisions in every member state and stop the exports now. we owe this to ourselves and to our currently abused neighbours.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this proposal on biocides is not perfect but it does present to us a perfect example of a european compromise. the draft regulation emphasises the introduction of eu-wide authorisation procedures which should operate alongside national approval structures for biocidal products with similar conditions of use, which i welcome. i also welcome the introduction of the concept of low-risk products with a simplified procedure. this is all moving in the right direction but there are still some areas of concern. i wonder particularly whether we have got the issue of confidentiality right. transparency is, of course, essential for consumer safety but innovation could be stifled by disproportionate disclosure demands. it is important to be consistent, and i wonder whether the commission is prepared to consider how this stacks up against the confidentiality and transparency issues in the reach regulations. of course, the composition of products is only one issue. it is also important to think about how they are used. the proposal requires the commission to come forward in three years’ time with a report on how this regulation contributes to sustainable use, particularly for professional users, and i welcome this initiative from parliament. balancing environmental and consumer protection and promoting the single market are always a regulatory challenge, but i think this proposal has moved us some way forward.
madam president, new legislation to replace the biocidal products directive is absolutely necessary. i therefore want to congratulate christa klaß and all my other colleagues who worked on this dossier, on being able to find common ground with the council and to reach a compromise agreement. i am particularly pleased with the provisions for clear labelling, labelling of nanomaterials and the recognition that excessive restrictions on certain products may result in a disproportionately negative impact on society. however, i would urge the commission and member states to be wary of the cost of compliance with the new legislation. we must make sure that the process of getting approval to use necessary products is not so great that the companies who need them cannot afford them. intimidating costs may mean that many smes in my constituency in scotland, and those in other countries, feel excluded from the entire process. we must ensure a level playing field and prevent dominant companies from excluding smaller competitors. just as excessive restrictions on certain products may result in a disproportionate negative impact on society, excessive costs of compliance will have a disproportionate impact on businesses, and particularly on smes, which make up a significant part of this sector.
author. − mr president, can i congratulate mr bové on his report on the farm input supply chain. it raises some very topical issues. we are all well aware that the rising cost of inputs – most notably for feed, fuel and fertiliser – is putting major pressure on farmers and continues to squeeze their margins in an economic climate that is already difficult, especially for the intensive sectors. specifically, the cost of feed has to be addressed; rising costs will force us to rethink our attitude, i believe, about soya imports from third countries and the problems associated with the protein deficit in the eu. i do not believe that domestic protein production can satisfy demand, especially if we wish to increase food production for reasons of food security. moreover, rising food costs do not seem to result in higher farmgate prices and this has to be looked at for the benefit of both the consumer and the farmer. large retailers must be prepared to cooperate with producers in order to ensure that the distribution of profits along the chain is equal and fair. the eu imposes the strictest standards on animal welfare, environmental practices and food safety. i support the fact that the eu is the world leader in this regard, but i also think we have to find a balance between maintaining the highest standards and risking over-legislating our farmers out of business. i fear the proposals from the commission regarding the reform of the cap go in that direction, especially in relation to greening and direct payments and the ridiculous set-aside proposal. with regard to the issue of imbalances in the food chain, it is clear that the power of retailers has grown to what some consider to be an unacceptable level. while there are some measures the eu can take, especially as regards transparency and profits in the chain, i think that farmers need to look at how they can organise themselves better and increase their bargaining power, whether through producer organisations or cooperatives.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i will be no exception in congratulating my colleague josé bové for this very timely and very powerful report. it pulls together a number of the interlocking and mutually reinforcing factors which are impacting on our food supply chain and making the lives of european and global farmers more difficult. indeed, there are times when the economics of farming are not so much a science as more of a voodoo cult. it is amazing that anybody is actually in farming at all and that we have any food to eat. the fact is that the increased concentration of market power downstream of farming, in processing industries, trade companies and supermarkets, and upstream of farming, in terms of increasing costs for fertilisers, energy, feed, seed, water, loans and land rent, is undermining the proper functioning of the food supply chain in europe. farmers are facing a squeeze between rising costs for input and low farm-gate prices. for those colleagues – usually those not present in these debates – who have suggested that the free market is working, i have some statistics from the scottish agricultural college report on power in agriculture – actual statistics on market concentration – showing that four companies worldwide account for 75-90%, by some measures, of global grain trade, seven companies control all fertiliser supply, five companies share 68% of the global agrochemical market, and three companies control almost 50% of the proprietary seeds market. if you add to that the supermarkets’ and processors’ power, it really is surprising that our farmers are in business at all. so to those who would say that the free market in agriculture is working – well, prima facie, no it is not. we saw what happened – as other colleagues have mentioned – with the breakdown of the interbank lending market earlier in this economic crisis. it is the poorest who are hit hardest, and our citizens are very much in the frame for this. so i was delighted, commissioner, to hear your fulsome presentation this morning, and i hope you will gather from this debate that this house is looking for more action from the commission, not less. we are your ally in this and, if anything, we want to see more urgent activity from the commission on the many issues raised in this report. we want to see further action because this is not going to go away or get better. quite the reverse – the market is concentrating further day by day in a world where we are increasingly seeing instability in energy prices, global instability and its political knock-on effects, and climate change making parts of the world wetter, parts of the world drier, and all of the world more climatically unstable. we are not going to see our food supply chain getting calmer. we need to act on this urgently. cap reform has never been more urgent and this report deserves to be absolutely fundamental in all our minds as we take forward the cap reform project with you commissioner. we look forward to that effort.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, during my farming lifetime i have seen wheat yields triple, and during my farming lifetime i have seen sugar beet yields triple. in addition to that, those sugar beet have gone from being randomly monogerm to consistently monogerm, and all that is down to the efforts of plant breeders. they have to be rewarded for the work that they do. they are in great competition with other plant breeders and the farmer, i can assure you, is the most brutal customer of the lot. if he does not like a variety he will drop it like a stone. the price of failure for a plant breeder is very high indeed: it is 10 years’ work straight down the drain. somebody was talking about maintaining seed banks. i can assure you that the seed breeders themselves do that. actually, seed is one of the farm inputs that farmers have a huge degree of control over, and in the uk a farmer has three choices. he can either maintain an old variety on which no royalty is payable, or he can multiply up a new variety. he will then have to declare that he has done so and pay a modest acreage royalty. he can expect to be inspected, or he can simply buy a bag of seed where the royalty is part of the price. all of these things he can do. this works well in the uk. i do not see the necessity to call on the commission to interfere in this in any way at all. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, i am grateful to the member for giving way. you will be well aware that burns night is coming up, so i will be wearing a kilt in brussels for three nights next week as we celebrate our national poet, but that is not actually the reason i am rising to speak. i pay tribute, mr agnew, to your personal interest and activity in the committee on agriculture and rural development, where you are an active and engaged member, but i hope you agree with us that, surely, the way to deal with the problems you have raised, the problems that are raised in this report and the problems that colleagues have raised, is by all of us working together within our family of nations and our single market to make sure that we maximise the benefits for our consumers of the single market, to the benefit of our producers. i would be curious to hear your response to that, given your party’s position of isolationism within the world market.
blue-card answer. – for a start we are not isolationist; we are just the opposite. we want to trade with the whole world and not just be bogged down with the eu. i did not raise any problems; i said that this is something working satisfactorily so do not interfere with it. i will give you an example of the market. i am an egg producer – free-range eggs. they were in surplus in 2011 – no subsidy on that. i accepted the discipline of my packer and i reduced my production to squeeze out the surplus. because i did that and made the sacrifice, it worked and the packer then gave me cash compensation. that is the free market working, but farmers must accept discipline. it is no good running to the taxpayer the whole time.
madam president, firstly may i thank the rapporteur for his work on this issue and the focus that he brings to a wide variety of problems that farmers are facing today. whilst the rapporteur highlights generally the problems in terms of cost of production versus farmgate prices, in northern ireland – despite these difficulties – agriculture continues to contribute to the economy. we have heard colleagues say today that this really is quite a miracle, given the problems that farmers face. however, the agri-food sector in northern ireland has grown significantly, accounts for 20% of sales from the manufacturing industry and now, in a very small region, provides 50 000 direct jobs. we should recognise the absolute importance of this industry to our economy. it is an industry which has proved resilient in difficult economic conditions and should provide further private-sector growth if given the proper support and freedom from oppressive legislation. there is no doubt that many of the issues raised by the report are valuable, but i believe that the greatest contribution that we can make to a sustainable and competitive sector is in producing a common agricultural policy that sees food production and european food security as its aim and objective. over recent weeks i have been talking to farmers in my own constituency and they see the proposals from the commission as complex, overbearing in terms of environmental objectives and favouring landowners over active food-producing farmers. in our discussions on cap reform, if we miss the opportunity to provide an environment for increased productivity and one which provides food and supply security, we will only continue to increase price volatility for farmers and consumers. also, commissioner, i was interested in your brief run-down on some of the common agricultural policy proposals. you mentioned specifically crop rotation as has been envisaged in the pillar one proposal. in northern ireland this is seen as much too prescriptive and almost certainly will put small mixed farms out of work. it is simply not workable. in my own country, can i urge the uk government to get on with its plans for the supermarket ombudsman and to give that ombudsman a range of powers which will actually tackle the issue.
madam president, this is a very timely debate, and i would add my congratulations to josé bové for a well balanced report that highlights the real problems that farmers face because, as other speakers have pointed out, on the one hand farmers are selling their produce to a handful of very powerful multinational retailers, and on the other hand they are purchasing their inputs from a handful of very powerful agrochemical or agro-industry multinational suppliers. the result, of course, is that farmers are squeezed from both sides by these huge and powerful companies. this highlights the urgent need for action in the cap reform and in other areas where the commission is taking action to try and help this matter. we need to strengthen the hand of farmers when it comes to negotiating (a) with the retailers, and (b) with their input suppliers. if we can achieve that, what will then happen is a better return for farmers, a better margin, and less reliance on the need for taxpayers’ support in the future. there is one particular area that i think needs immediate action from the commission, and that is in regard to the fertiliser market. if i could give you the example, commissioner, of the uk fertiliser market, there is a monopoly manufacturer for nitrogen fertiliser called growhow. it is 50% owned by its largest competitor yara, which is the largest fertiliser manufacturer in the world. the other half of growhow is owned by cf industries, which is the largest manufacturer of nitrogen-based fertilisers in north america. surely this level of consolidation means there is little real competition in the uk marketplace. i suspect this is replicated throughout the rest of europe. the only competition they face is from the blenders, but they unfortunately have to buy their nitrogen from that same supplier. so between 2003 and 2009, output prices for agricultural products increased by 35%, their inputs increased by 42%, but fertiliser increased by 173%. that is evidence that the market is failing. commissioner, could you give me a guarantee that you will investigate this matter and ask the competition commissioner to look closely at how the fertiliser market is operating in the eu?
madam president, commissioner, our farmers are being squeezed between ever-rising input prices on the one hand, and very tough competitive market conditions for agricultural commodities on the other. faced with this problem the commission has two options. they should be reluctant to regulate markets – that is usually heavy-handed and rarely effective – but they should offer encouragement and support to the industry by indicating best practice on all sides. there are three things you can do here, commissioner. firstly you should encourage farmers to cooperate with one another: by working together they can exploit their strengths to buy inputs better, process production better and thereby add value. you can empower farmers by ensuring that there is transparent market information always available; and you can enable farmers by amending competition law, promoting codes of conduct, illustrating best practice and simplifying the common agricultural policy. i am disappointed that the commissioner’s proposals for cap reform fail to recognise adequately the strategic importance of a viable, competitive agricultural sector. how fortunate the commissioner is that he has josé bové here today to offer him sound practical advice. it is a good report, josé. thank you.
madam president, the rising cost of food is of great concern, particularly at this time of economic hardship. from an economic and monetary affairs perspective, we will deal in detail with the issue of commodity derivatives, and agricultural markets in general, in the regulation on markets in financial instruments and the market abuse regulation over the course of this year. we need, however, to ensure that our financial services legislation is joined up with our wider agricultural policies. the key will be transparency. ultimately we do not know what role financial market participants are playing in the world’s commodity markets because there is a lack of transparency in the trading process. this report makes clear just how many factors influence the price of food, yet it is easy for politicians directly to blame banks and hedge funds for price volatility. this is not a two-dimensional discussion, and the commission needs to look for more sophisticated tools to remove the opacity in commodity markets and give financial regulators a full toolbox. they really need to clamp down on any abusive behaviour as and when it may occur. nevertheless, we need to proceed with caution, as food producers need to be able to continue to use agricultural commodity derivatives to hedge their business exposures. financial participants should, however, reduce – not cause – volatility in our prices.
madam president, i want to focus on the energy aspects of mr bové’s excellent report because improving energy efficiency on our farms is an absolute imperative. i would caution, however, against the race for erecting massive wind turbines on farms. in scotland right now the modern equivalent of snake oil salesmen are knocking on doors throughout the countryside trying to persuade hard-pressed farmers to part with vast sums of cash in exchange for having one of these industrial monsters erected on their land with the promise of pots of gold. however, as the recent storms have demonstrated, these turbines are often subject to catastrophic failure, and even when they are working, they only produce a trickle of electricity. as a result, many farmers in scotland have found that they have rusting hulks on their land which are earning nothing and costing them a fortune. instead of having signs on farm gates that say ‘beware of the bull’, farmers should have signs on their gates which say ‘beware of the bullshit’!
, blue card question. – mrs köstinger, i wonder whether or not you accept that, without financial participants in the agricultural markets, farmers and producers would be unable to hedge their costs and therefore plan their production and their outcomes better. do you accept that they do have a role and that they are not all pure speculators?
, blue-card question. – mr president, the speaker mentions speculation and the role that this is playing in a negative sense. i would put the opposite argument: that without financial participants there would be no ability to hedge risks and inputs in the agricultural markets. so they do play an important role – and i wonder whether the speaker accepts that.
mr president, if european farmers are to be competitive, even in their home markets, they must cut the cost of their inputs. mr bové was quite right to encourage farmers to cultivate their own seeds rather than relying on seed monopolies, and also to recycle phosphates and nitrogen rather than relying on evermore expensive purchases, and of course to return to the production of traditional products. he has also shown himself to be aware of the burden of the cost of complying with legislation – much of it of course eu legislation. he might have mentioned the costs of the new enriched poultry cages that have to be borne by countries complying with this very welcome legislation but not, of course, by those countries that have studiously ignored it. the gap between farm-gate prices and the prices paid by consumers has been mentioned by other speakers. the power of oligopsonist supermarkets must be broken. they treat farmers as though they were medieval serfs put on earth to serve big business retailers.
mr president, political states that want to demonstrate that they have come of age plan achievements that are both monumental and symbolic. spain achieved unity under christian rulers in 1492, and within a year sent christopher columbus on a historic quest to discover a western route to the east and, of course, discovered the new world, the existence of which donald rumsfeld – had he been around – might have said we did not know that we did not know about. the commission is quite right to point out that great enterprises bring in their wake consequential benefits: new products, new knowledge, riches and inspiration for innovation, as well as a few detriments, of course. however, the real motivation is to confer authority and legitimacy on a political entity that might otherwise falter. in the words of the commission, ‘space serves to cement the eu’s position as a major player on the international stage and contributes to the union’s economic and political independence’. for the eu’s independence, read our slavery.
mr president, i have often felt that this chamber is out of touch with reality, but observing its reaction to the recent downgrades i began to feel that lack of touch was toppling into clinical neurosis. we have seen the downgrading not only of our sovereign countries that make up the eurozone, but of the fund that is supposed to pay for all the bail-outs – and the reaction in this chamber, as in the palaces and chanceries of europe, is to try to turn off the volume, to stick fingers in ears, and to pretend that if the ratings agencies do not report what is happening then there is not really a problem. we had mr brok claiming, in an interview in die welt, that it was all a wicked anglo-saxon plot against the euro, that the ratings agencies are not interested in making money, and that they are trying to drive the euro to destruction. my friends, there is no alternative to tackling the underlying problem. you cannot improve the weather by turning down the weather forecast. as my countryman louis macneice put it, ‘the glass is falling hour by hour, the glass will fall for ever,/ but if you break the bloody glass you can’t hold up the weather.’
mr president, in relation to the conclusions of the council last month, i just wish to make the point that we in this chamber delude ourselves if we think that we are the only democratic voice in europe. we talk a great deal about the community method, but in fact we have to understand that this intergovernmental treaty is signed by 26 democratic governments accountable to their peoples. my government chose not to participate. we do not think it is good for britain, nor for the eurozone, but we wish the eurozone well as it tries to sort out its problems. i have to say that the inclusion in our resolution of a reference to the financial transaction tax was entirely inappropriate. this is displacement activity. we should be talking about making europe more competitive, not about adopting more taxes which actually harm growth within the european union.
mr president, in voting against the resolution concerning the intergovernmental agreement i am not voting against its content, i am voting against this parliament taking a position on the agreement at all. this is not an eu treaty and should therefore not be treated as one in this house. the crisis in the eurozone is continuing and it seems that most of the solutions that have been put forward so far via complicated regulations and ever more complex financial structures have not calmed the markets. an intergovernmental agreement could be faster to agree and simpler for the markets to understand if it were necessary, but as the most important aspects of this treaty are already included in a six-pack on economic governance i do not see any value in parliament wasting its time on this rehashed agreement. if it takes an intergovernmental treaty for member states to live up to these commitments already in secondary eu legislation, then why are we wasting time legislating in this house? if member states do not trust each other to deliver on agreed legislation, how can investors begin to trust them?
mr president, i have been struck by the tone of a lot of the remarks in this chamber since the recent summit to the effect that britain is now disengaged from europe, that we should simply go our own way, return to the sea and so on. they are often delivered in a rather disparaging tone, but i take them as a constructive basis for negotiation. it seems that if we are not going to be part of this new treaty on fiscal union, this new fu treaty, then it is logical that this should become the main forum for further integration. it should be, for example, the forum in which any tax harmonisation happens. it should indeed be not only the unit of economic governance, but of wider political amalgamation. this would leave britain in, if you like, an outward shell of the eu which would have been drained of its substance, as the weasel was said to suck the contents out of an egg while leaving the shell untouched. it would still be called the european union, but it would in practice have subsided into a free trade area bolstered by a little bit of intergovernmental cooperation. would that not keep all sides happy? it would certainly please my constituents, and i put it to you, colleagues, that you would lose a bad and grudging tenant, but gain a good and friendly neighbour.
mr president, i voted in favour of the florenz report. the past twenty years or so has seen an increasingly widespread ownership and proliferation of personal household and electrical equipment by our citizens, and technology continues to develop at a rapid rate to satisfy increasing demands for cutting-edge products. as a result, electrical hardware often becomes obsolete after a comparatively short shelf-live and needs discarding. this report makes out that only a third of such hardware is disposed of in the prescribed manner and recycled. this disposal figure needs to increase and parliament must continue to support the commission’s 2020 target of 65%, with an interim target of 45%. i particularly welcome the proposal for retailers to provide collection points for redundant small portable equipment – objects such as our mobile phones. the effect of the poisonous pollutants emanating from the avoidable, incorrect disposal of electronic goods does not respect national boundaries. we owe it to our citizens to have a clean environment throughout the whole of the european union.
mr president, this report on waste electrical and electronic equipment seems to strike the right balance in terms of what should be decided at eu level and what should be left to member states. for wales, a key element will be the way in which the collection target will be calculated – the current method being kept until the end of 2013, after which there will be an interim target and then an ambitious target of 65% of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) placed on the market from 2020. member states such as my own will now have the choice of opting for a more ambitious 85% target should they wish to do so. conversely, i welcome the proposal that the commission will assist those member states who are struggling to meet the targets, with transitional adjustments. while it is important to increase the amount of eee being recycled and to reduce the waste, it is equally important that the approach should not be too prescriptive but should give member states the flexibility to choose the most appropriate and achievable target for them. delivering a positive result will now be up to the member states: it will be up to them to demonstrate commitment turned into reality.
mr president, i voted in favour of the klaß report concerning the placing on the market and the use of biocidal products. i believe that the package will be a balanced one, and it will see the biocidal products directive repealed, hopefully, and replaced with a better alternative, while still keeping at the forefront its two main aims. in addition, with the retention of the two-step biocidal products directive, the procedure particularly of assessing chemical active ingredients and the approval system that differentiates between the so-called ‘normal’ and ‘problematic’ substances will still remain in force. this is essential for the legislation to be effective. i believe the labelling requirements introduced by the compromise package for those materials treated with biocides and the simplification of data protection rules to be positive steps. the mandatory data sharing mechanism is also important and has been put forward in the report. this would mean the avoidance of duplication of vertebrate animal studies and the use of more vivisection which, generally speaking, i reject. i feel that the report will make the rules surrounding the products a lot easier to understand and also to enforce throughout the european union.
mr president, maintaining the use of existing biocidal products in the absence of viable alternatives is vital for industry, households and our communities at large. this report balances usage requirements whilst upholding a high level of protection for human and animal health and the environment. it is important that the process of assessing the active ingredient and the subsequent authorisation of a biocidal product will be maintained at current standards to ensure the highest level of protection. coming from a background of biochemistry, i welcome that there will be a regular review of biocides, with the initial approval or subsequent renewals having a limit of 10 years. however, despite the report initially proposing a ban on all carcinogens, it is important that they will still be permitted to be used in a controlled manner particularly with regard to rodent control pesticides, which are widely used by the farming community in my region in wales. safe, regulated use is far preferable to an outright ban. i also support the rules for mutual recognition which will of course provide for a single market in biocides across the whole of the eu.
mr president, i voted in favour of the bové report on the farm input supply chain. given that farming is such a labour- and machinery-intensive, costly industry, and with ever-growing demand for food, it can sometimes be difficult for farmers to always make a profit and this report recognises this as fact. the report is particularly good in that it also acknowledges that legislation imposed by the eu can and often does decrease the global competitiveness of the farms it is actually trying to help. one of the key elements of the report is the proposition that greening measures in pillar one should be made optional. these measures, which are part of the commission’s draft legislation on the common agricultural policy post-2013, could pose difficulties to many of our farmers and place an extra unnecessary burden on the farming industry at a time when we should all be striving to implement measures that have exactly the opposite effect.
mr president, space has always exerted a pull on the imagination of a certain kind of european integrationist. space exploration is seen almost in cold war terms, as a kind of virility symbol, a way of asserting europe’s place in the world. one thinks of president chirac’s description of the galileo project as a way of breaking the technological imperialism of the united states; one thinks of the obsession of successive french presidents with putting a frenchman sur la lune – which of course we would all support, although i think there would need to be intergovernmental negotiations on whether to bring him back again, depending on which frenchman it was. my friends, space has become an almost perfect symbol of the european union. in order to publicise the most recent european election in the uk, we had the image of a ballot box in orbit – and there, writ large, is what the european union has become: disconnected, unworldly, looking down on the rest of us, cut off, remote. even as your feet sink into the mire, you, my federalist friends, are still gazing fixedly at the stars.
mr president, i voted in favour of the patriciello report; there are clear merits for the european union to coordinate its efforts for a better eu space strategy. the combined technical expertise of all our scientists and engineers would serve to improve space technology that aids both the eu economy and improves the quality of life of our citizens. for example, the gps satellites that millions of motorists rely on across europe could be enhanced to give further accuracy and innovation for traffic management and secure the passage of merchant shipping, which delivers the bulk of imported goods to our european economy. i would also support the eu’s global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme, which aims to create a capacity for earth observation and the environmental benefits we would hope that it would eventually bestow. however, i support the report’s call for the gmes to be funded through the multiannual financial framework, which is preferable to the commission’s wish that it be funded outside of the european union budget, placing an added financial burden on member states during these times of increased austerity.
mr president, the report on space strategy for the european union makes sound and sensible proposals in an area where shared member state resources can be made to go further. having an eu space strategy facilitates the pooling of resources and intelligence so that we can make real, innovative progress that will benefit the entire eu and beyond. this is particularly important given the increasingly competitive world we are operating in and the spin-offs that space research often delivers for everyday products for our constituents. an eu space strategy will ensure independent access to space, which is likely to become increasingly important over time. it will also allow further development of galileo – our satellite navigation system project – and will assist us in developing our own high-precision positioning system in europe. this is an area of eu added value.
mr president, lukashenko’s dictatorship in belarus is sometimes described as the last surviving piece of soviet apparatus in europe, but i think that overlooks the common agricultural policy, with its central plans, with its state support of prices, with its regulation. we have rehearsed many times the case against the cap, the terrible damage it does to developing countries, particularly in africa, the way in which it falls disproportionately on the poorest, the inflationary effect it has on our economies through higher food prices, the distortion of incentives in the countryside, the way in which it particularly penalises countries such as mine which are net food importers. one thing which i think deserves more study is the way in which it funnels money to a particular kind of people in all the member states – and they are not farmers, or at least not necessarily. the payments have become disconnected from the land. a lot of public sector institutions, ngos and generally wealthy individuals are now receiving subsidy cheques from the european union, and that, in a sense, is the point: we have purchased – or the eu has purchased – the loyalty of a powerful and articulate caste of people in every member state. i would say this is the best mechanism in europe for redistributing money from the poor to the rich, but of course that honour must now go to our policy of bank bail-outs.
mr president, i voted along with my group, the ecr, in favour of the changes suggested by the caronna report. in the current economic crisis, with the global population increasing at its current rate and with widespread famine in africa a major problem, the need to reduce food wastage has never been greater. therefore, exchanging methods of best practice is important, as is better coordination between member states. one of the most important matters highlighted by the report is the fact that the rules concerning below-cost selling in our supermarkets are not the same throughout the european union. it is important to allow retailers to sell food at discounted prices as it nears its sell-by date: this practice reduces food wastage significantly in countries such as the united kingdom, where it is permitted. in some of our member states, believe it or not, there is a ban on below-cost selling – absurdly making this sensible practice illegal. i hope that, with better coordination between member states, this situation will change. lastly i agree with my colleague dan hannan that a radical reform of the cap is essential for the future.
mr president, given the pressures that are already being put on our farmers to produce more food with fewer resources, the report on how to avoid food waste seems to strike the right tone. with the un estimating that the global population will reach nine billion by 2050, it is only sensible that we reduce food wastage as part of our food supply strategy. i support a coordinated strategy across the eu, with a network being established to facilitate the exchange of intelligence and best practice on how to achieve this reduction. the network should also seek to further coordinate research and development into improved technologies for the treatment of waste products, particularly in energy generation. the report acknowledges that there is a need for industry to play its part in reducing food wastage, especially in terms of packaging, though i would also like to see more innovative approaches to the actual use of close-to-date food. we need to ensure that a competitive market delivers our food in an economic and efficient form. however, we need to be careful not to replace market solutions with overly burdensome legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which makes technical adjustments to the provisions dealing with the atv. this adjustment will not alter the way member states implement those provisions. the amended regulation provides that third-country nationals who hold a valid visa or residence permit issued by a member state which does not (yet) apply the schengen acquis in full (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria and romania) are to be covered by the atv exemption. i regard this change as logical: it is pointless to insist that persons who already hold a visa or residence permit should undergo a further identity check, given that they have already been checked and, on that basis, have been deemed not to present a risk of illegal immigration. what is more, the proposal should reduce the administrative burden on the member states.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the european union (eu) and georgia have concluded an agreement aiming at mutually protecting the geographical indications (gis) and covering a wide range of agricultural products such as cheeses, oils and fats, bread and pastry, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meats and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wines, spirits and beers. this agreement is a step taken by both partners as foreseen in the partnership and cooperation agreement which entered into force on 1 july 1999. it has been made possible by the accession of georgia to the world trade organization (wto) in 2000. it has been described as a bilateral agreement for the protection of gis which is the first of this kind with a partner from the european neighbourhood.
in writing. − when british prime minister winston churchill attended the yalta conference in 1945 he was offered a glass of georgian brandy. the great man was so impressed by the taste that he mistook the georgian spirit for a french cognac. i voted for this report because it means that geographical indications such as cognac and scotch whisky will be protected. georgian brandies will no longer be able to call themselves cognacs. this will make it easier for consumers to make the right choice. now the only way consumers can be misled is if – like mr churchill – they are deceived by the taste of the product.
in writing. − i support parliament giving its consent to the draft council decision on the accession of the union to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, because this unece regulation will allow for the application of the same standards in many countries, taking away red tape and allowing european industry to compete more widely and easily.
in writing. − i voted for parliament to give its consent to the draft council decision on the position of the european union in relation to the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning pedestrian safety and to the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning light emitting diode (led) light sources together with its corrigenda, because these unece regulations will allow for the application of the same standards in many countries, taking away red tape and allowing european industry to compete more widely and easily.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i approve of measures which are designed to prevent injuries to pedestrians. the proposals will ensure that cars’ bumpers are designed so as to limit the impact on pedestrians if a collision occurs. the standardisation of led lights fitted to cars, caravans or trailers will make it easier to see stop lights, indicators and hazard lights, thereby increasing safety on our roads.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. international aviation relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that national designation clauses in the bilateral agreements infringe eu law. they allow a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned and effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. this has been found to constitute discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. there are also further issues, such as competition, where compliance with eu law should be ensured. thus, the commission has negotiated the agreement that replaces certain provisions in the existing 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and indonesia.
in writing. − indonesia is one of the largest emerging markets in the world and yet there is no direct flight between jakarta and my home constituency of london. direct flights have been shown to help improve trade; firms do more business and invest more in markets which are the most convenient to reach. i hope that the eu-indonesia air services agreement will help to increase eu-indonesia trade and that soon we will have a daily flight from jakarta to heathrow allowing british firms to tap into an economy which has an annual growth rate of 6.5 %.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which should contribute to a strengthened eu position within icao.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal and particularly support amendment 10. collection and treatment costs should be incorporated into the product price so that there is an incentive to reduce those costs. flat rates reflect neither the actual costs of a product at the end of its service life nor its environmental impact. in the final analysis, consumers receive no information on recyclability and actual treatment costs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important piece of legislation because it is vital to increase the recovery of electronic waste. dumping electronic and electrical waste in landfill sites causes harmful toxins to be leaked into the environment. this revision of the 2003 weee directive is a positive step in reducing the pollution that this causes by ensuring that large companies and manufacturers play an active role in recycling waste.
in writing. − electronic waste includes tvs, telephones, computers, white goods, and everyday household electrical items from toasters to toys. these are common items across all eu countries and it is important that they are disposed of properly. last year, the south london waste partnership managed some of the highest performing reuse and recycle centres in the eu, with up to 75 % of the electrical waste brought to these sites being reused or recycled. i believe that the existing systems in the uk effectively manage our waste and therefore would normally shy away from any interference from the eu. however the report has no separate target for reuse and member states keep significant control over how they deal with weee, so i decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the introduction of a community authorisation system represents a significant step towards a harmonised european market for biocidal products. it is the best and most efficient system for improving the availability of these products, providing incentives for innovation and creating added value for human health and nature conservation. a central authorisation system will also have an unequivocally positive effect on the internal market as it will facilitate consistent assessments and uniform enforcement of the requirements in all eu member states. this will, in particular, also improve consumer protection.
in writing. − i am pleased to support the compromise package for the regulation of biocidal products. my constituency of london is home to a number of companies who use products such as disinfectant and pest-control products, which for human health and environmental reasons require a certificate of authorisation. to achieve authorisation a company has to put together a dossier, including proof that there is no viable alternative. the new regulation introduces a mandatory data-sharing mechanism to avoid duplication of studies which will save money and time for companies requiring such authorisation.
in writing. − i welcome this new own-initiative report which identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, and water. it points at impact on several production sectors, highlights the growing dependence of farmers on an increasingly concentrated input industry, and suggests measures to be taken within the upcoming cap reform.
in writing. − i support this report because we need to recognise that farmers are facing increased costs. rising energy prices, as well as the mounting price of feed, mean that farmers are being squeezed at both ends of the supply chain. however we need to ask ourselves, how much of farmers’ costs are generated by cumbersome red-tape and regulations from brussels? to help farmers we need to reduce bureaucracy and make significant reforms to the common agricultural policy. helping farmers also means there should be no more rewards for failure; the agriculture sector needs to be weaned off subsidies in order to make the european food industry competitive in a global market.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the commission to propose robust community legislation – without distorting the proper functioning of the markets – to make fairer the relationships between producers, suppliers and distributors of food products, and to properly implement the rules already in force, not least because the latest agricultural income figures from eurostat show that, since 2009, there has been a drop of 11.6% in farm income at eu level.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this resolution as this is no doubt an important issue, deserving of my support. while it is only right and proper that the common agricultural policy and other agricultural issues have been a significant focus of this resolution i also believe that the other end of the food supply chain, namely the consumer, ought to be strongly considered with regard to this issue in the future.
in writing. − i voted for this report but with some reservations. whilst the commission strategy identifies priority areas of action, they remain in part somewhat vague. they should be made clearer and an assessment of all the technical options and related costs and benefits should be given. clear governance also needs to be established in relation to space policy, with effective supervisory and coordination mechanisms, in order to harmonise priorities and resources derived from national funding and from the european union, the esa and the eda.
in writing. − with over 65 million passengers per year passing through the terminals of heathrow, my constituency of london is home to the world’s busiest international airport – a great responsibility. the egnos and galileo programmes are both key elements of eu space strategy which makes air travel safer by improving the accuracy of position – the new technology gives pilots their position to within a couple of metres. while i appreciate that new satellite technology can help improve passenger safety, we must be mindful of costs at a time of economic austerity. last year the commission revealed that it would need a further eur 2 billion to complete the galileo project. the entire project will cost eur 22 billion, almost entirely funded by the eu taxpayer. when this system was first proposed we were told that costs would be considerably lower and that private investment would mean that taxpayers would only have to foot a bill of around eur 2.5 billion. space may be the final frontier, but we need to prevent the cost of this project going to infinity and beyond.
in writing. − i welcome this report into food wastage. reducing food wastage is a major issue across the european union. in the united kingdom alone we throw away 7.2 million tonnes of food from our homes every year, and 4.4 million tonnes of this food could have been eaten. this issue has far-reaching implications for families across the uk, especially in the current economic climate. food wastage costs the average family with children gbp 680 a year, the equivalent of gbp 50 a month. this brings the value of food wasted in the uk each year to a grand total of gbp 12 billion. not only are there serious financial implications for the consumer in relation to food wastage, but there are also far-reaching issues surrounding the wastage of water, energy and packaging used in food production, transportation and storage. all of this goes to waste when we throw away perfectly good food.
in writing. − i strongly welcome this report making proposals to avoid food wastage. half of the food produced in the eu gets wasted (89 million tonnes per year, equal to the weight of 1 000 airbus planes per day), while 16 million eu citizens struggle every day to get a proper meal without support from charities.
in writing. − i supported today’s resolution which calls for food wastage in the eu to be halved by 2025. a staggering 50% of edible food is wasted each year even though 79 million eu citizens live beneath the poverty line. we need an effective eu-wide strategy to tackle the issue of food wastage. i believe that new awareness campaigns would help inform people on how best to avoid food wastage and to use food sustainably. schools and colleges could explain the need for effective cooking, storing and disposal of foodstuffs, which could help reduce the amount currently being thrown away. i also echo calls to make labelling on food packages clearer, so that both ‘use by’ dates and ‘sell by’ dates are displayed – this would help consumers make a more informed decision when purchasing food. in addition, the use of local produce should be promoted in catering and hospitality and the redistribution of food to poorer people free of charge should be encouraged.
in writing. − in my constituency of london, enough food to fill nearly 12 000 double-decker buses is thrown away every year. london is committed to cutting the amount of food sent to landfill. the london food board works hard to raise awareness of waste amongst both individuals and businesses. household initiatives include residents using a specially provided kitchen caddy to collect food waste which is then sent for composting. similarly, businesses are being encouraged to sign a ‘food waste pyramid’ which asks them to avoid buying surplus food, redistribute any unwanted food to charities and pass food unfit for human consumption to livestock. many supermarkets and cafes in london have systems in place to give food at its sell-by-date to homeless people, which is distributed via local members of the community. food wastage is a problem for all eu countries. i therefore voted for this report as i believe we can share best practice across the eu on reducing the quantity of food waste that is being dumped into landfill.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there seems to be some agreement in the house today that even if this pact is adopted and ratified – which of course is very far from a forgone conclusion if mr swoboda is right about what happens in france and other countries – it will do nothing to solve this current crisis. as a fiscal conservative myself, i should be delighted that we are enshrining fiscal discipline and balanced budgets within national laws and constitutions. however, as a democrat, what greatly concerns me is that an electorate’s ability to vote for a high-spending keynesian economic policy is effectively being removed from them. we are making socialism illegal. this pact is effectively rendering all elections null and void across much of europe. let me say this. as a free market conservative myself who finds much to admire in the german model of fiscal and monetary discipline, we cannot impose our vision by force of law; we must also use force of argument. we need to show that austerity is not forever, that there is light at the end of a tunnel but, as long as we cut off the possibility of a member state leaving the euro, then we block that tunnel. we condemn many countries to years of deflation, of poverty and of emigration, with no end in sight. recovery will not come to many of the countries in southern europe, in my view, until they are free to reissue their own currencies and to price their way back into the market. nor of course can we preach austerity to them unless we practise it ourselves. imagine how a european summit – with its banquets, its motorcycle outriders, the armies of hangers on – must look to a public sector worker who is facing redundancy because of government cutbacks. imagine how taxpayers in our home countries feel when every pound or euro saved in domestic spending is swallowed up by higher contributions to the eu budget. my group makes no apologies for being single-minded about the single market. we will continue to pursue this agenda of creating the single market, of further extending services and reviewing procurement rules to encourage innovation. we will continue to push for better implementation of existing single market rules. and of course opening the single market would be pointless unless we continue to open our markets to the rest of the world; the parts of the world, that is, where there is still growth happening. but many of these actions are in the medium and the long term. there is one action, however, that we could take right here right now to show businesses our commitment to growth. surely one of the best ways for the eu to speed up growth is to scrap the directorate-general for employment and social affairs in the commission and repatriate its responsibilities to national governments. then we could scrap the working time directive, the agency workers directive, the pregnant workers directive and all of the other barriers to actually employing people if we really want to create jobs in europe. we cannot create those jobs by talking about them; by passing resolutions. in fact, we eurocrats and meps cannot actually create any jobs at all. what we can do is get out of the way and allow entrepreneurs to invent things, to make things and to sell things. that is where employment growth comes from and it is also where social security comes from. when i was a new mep we had something called the lisbon agenda. it was supposed to make europe the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. as sarah palin might have put it, ‘how is that working out for you?’
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say: congratulations everybody! david cameron had you worried for a bit, you even thought he was a eurosceptic, but it is ok. you have had a quiet word with him and the real david cameron is back. whatever happened to the veto? no more vetoes any more. indeed, mr cameron is now actively supporting this quite despicable pact, this plan to destroy and humiliate nation states that do not live up to a germanic view of how economies ought to be run. i must say i thought the weekend’s proposals from the german finance ministry suggesting that a european commissioner and his staff occupy a big building in athens and take over the running of the country – a gauleiter, some might say – must be joke. even this eu, i thought, could not possibly sink to those depths – but of course it was just a negotiating position and what we now have for greece is diplomacy at gunpoint. it is the kind of strategy that palmerston used against athens back in the 19th century. nobody can deny today that greece is no more than a colony. and this is all a terrible, huge mistake. greece is not a failing subsidiary company where head office needs to come in and take control. greece is a nation with a soul, a nation with pride, with history – goodness me, they invented democracy in the first place. they are suffering. they have youth unemployment of 50% caused, mr van rompuy, because they are in the euro. you are causing the misery in these countries and you blather on about creating jobs and growth. none of this is actually going to happen. and remember, these people are being driven into humiliation and desperation. desperate people do desperate things, and i am deeply fearful for what will happen in greece if we continue with this mad course. and of course, as mr barroso knows, it is going to be portugal next.
mr president, mr cameron said that he will not prevent eu institutions from being used to enforce the intergovernmental agreement on fiscal policy. it would appear that he is promising to refrain from doing something that he cannot completely prevent and in some areas would not need to prevent. article 8 of the draft agreement states that it will use article 273 of the tfeu to enforce the agreement. it is true that article 273 does say that ‘the court of justice shall have jurisdiction in any dispute between member states which relates to the subject matter of the treaties if the dispute is submitted to it under a special agreement’. however, whilst it can adjudicate on such agreements, it probably does not have the power to fine member states for not complying with them. furthermore, its jurisdiction does not extend to adjudicating on excessive budget deficits. article 8 of the draft agreement does say that the commission can initiate any action, but i am afraid that the draft agreement is not a treaty and so cannot grant that power. article 273 of the treaty refers only to disputes between member states and not to disputes with the commission. it would appear therefore that the commission does not have the power to initiate any action. in fact, it would appear that the commission will have no role in this draft agreement at all. the court of justice will be able to say whether or not a country has broken the agreement but it will not be able to compel an erring country to obey. if eurozone countries want an agreement that can be enforced, they will need a new treaty which will have to be agreed unanimously. in my view it would be disastrous for britain to agree to such a mechanism because it might be used today to enslave eurozone countries but one day it will be used to enslave us.
blue-card answer to reinhard bütikofer. – mr president, i did not use the word ‘gauleiter’, i said ‘as some might say’, and indeed the biggest selling sunday newspaper in britain used that word. if you want to talk about hatred, just look at what this european project is doing. we have german newspapers slagging off the italians for being cowards, slagging off the greeks for being lazy and useless, and we have italian and greek newspapers depicting leading figures in germany wearing nazi uniforms. surely the whole point is that this project that was designed to bring us all together in peace and harmony is actually ripping us apart and bringing back nationalisms. and if there was one country i really had a go at in my speech, it was actually the united kingdom because i admitted the way we behaved towards greece in the 19th century was not acceptable.
mr president, the statement on growth and jobs agreed on monday finally calls for ‘smart fiscal consolidation preserving investment in future growth, sound macroeconomic policies and an active employment strategy preserving social cohesion’. that is exactly what my group has been calling for since the start of the crisis. the problem is that you have already made the choice of a dumb, rather than a smart, approach to fiscal consolidation. that dumb approach is embodied in the so-called six-pack and it is made even worse by this new international treaty. that framework prevents us from ‘preserving investment in future growth’ as the conclusion said. if you really want to be smart, you can do much more. the council could join this parliament in seeking to put in place a real system of eurobonds that would lower our interest rates on public debt and create room for manoeuvre for new investment. what is more, the council could agree a more ambitious financial transactions tax, as we proposed, to generate up to eur 200 billion of annual revenue. that would be smart. all that we can hope is that the inverse relationship between the council’s use of the language of ‘smartness’ and the state of our economies will lead to a breakthrough soon for a true smart response to the crisis. finally, a word on mr callanan’s speech: he claims to deplore the fact that this treaty would make socialism illegal, but then he goes on to say that he would scrap all of the fruits of socialism. i would like to thank him for putting so clearly on the record the conservative position.
mr president, jobs and growth have made it to the top of the agenda and action needs to follow. the other issue that has made the top of the agenda is the crisis for youth, but it is more than the fact that we just have devastatingly high numbers of young jobless. the ecb liquidity operations may have lifted the mood, but we should not be deceived. potentially 2 trillion plus being sucked up by the banking system by next june should tell us that some kind of transfer already is going on. the question is: will this generation face up to it or foist it, along with joblessness, on to the younger generation? they face no jobs, no home ownership, and a financial system stuffed with the bonds of this generation’s failure. and for those who try to lay the blame on the eba for its bank stress tests, i would like to remind member states that the deal was a combination of stress tests and firewall, and it is the constant delay in the firewalls that has made matters worse – among, of course, a few other delays.
on behalf of the ecr group. – at a time of austerity in europe, the ecr is concerned about your demands for a further eur 25 million to cover an expected overspend in this financial year in the external action service. it seems to us to betray a desire to grow the service beyond its existing remit, before the eeas has been able to fully prove that it brings real added value in terms of the improved efficiencies which were promised at the outset, such as cuts in eu member state bilateral embassies as a result of the new eu multilateral diplomatic input. it has also become your baby, baroness ashton. i must give you initial credit for the setting-up, at a time of general eu crisis, of this controversial service which understandably you believe deserves more taxpayers’ money. but the ecr has consistently argued for budget neutrality and for rationalisation of the eeas’s resources. the eu missions and their relative sizes are often still distributed according to historical legacies and, some cynics might even argue, pleasant postings, with large delegations in some parts – e.g. fiji – and none at all in other growing regional economic hubs, such as panama, which do not always reflect the eu’s current geopolitical priorities. so please, how can you justify this structural expenditure rise, on top of the existing eur 400 million a year for their running costs? why do we need this extra money, baroness ashton?
on behalf of the ecr group. – i would just like to put a supplementary question. given the fact that your eeas is so well funded, what measures are you now planning to undertake to unblock the russian and chinese vetoes in the security council on augmenting global sanctions against the syrian regime’s systematic, brutal attempts to repress – including by shooting innocent children and women – the uprising whose demands are simply more freedom and democracy in that country? the eeas is very well funded. what are you doing right now in new york to unblock the russian and chinese vetoes?
there has been no shortage of opportunity for baroness ashton to speak in this chamber, but this is the first time we have had question time and i very much welcome it. so many of the debates that we have had in this past year, one year after the arab spring, have been about the humanitarian crisis where repression has continued. instead can i ask her to comment today about where progress has been made – in a country like jordan, and she has already referred to the king of jordan in relation to the middle east peace process. are there lessons to be learned about transition without the need for violence? and in a country like tunisia – where of course we have had what were widely accepted constituent elections and where the arab spring began – what lessons are there for the depth of the deep democracy for which she strives? could she comment on the lessons that she has learned?
baroness ashton, with regard to turkey what are you planning to do if turkey carries out its threat to boycott the cypriot presidency of the council? surely this will be destructive of the positive agenda and contribute only to further increasing the instability in the eastern mediterranean? would you not agree that the cypriot presidency is in fact a perfect pretext for turkey to join the european and international mainstream and recognise the republic of cyprus?
you will not be surprised that i want to raise the question of camp ashraf. as you know, last december martin kobler, the unami (united nations assistance mission for iraq) special representative in iraq, signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) with the iraqi government without first having got the approval of the residents of camp ashraf which he had pledged to get in advance. nor was he acting in accordance with the wishes of the un secretary-general, who said that the ashraf people must approve the mou. yesterday he issued a press release saying that camp liberty is ready for the displacement of the 3 300 people from ashraf, when in fact there is no freedom of movement – they will not be allowed to take their personal possessions, they will be surrounded by thousands of military and police. this is not a refugee camp, this is fundamentally a prison. please, can you insist that the iraqi government uphold its obligations and not allow them to get away with this kind of unorthodox treatment.
madam vice-president/high representative, may i firstly welcome you back after your successful visit to india. it was very well received and i have no doubt that it will help us enormously in making headway in the negotiations that are due to take place. your office has already confirmed to me that we are due to meet in order to discuss some of the human rights issues that i have previously raised, so i shall not touch upon them here today. however, could you please give me some indication of what measures you were able to negotiate or discuss in relation to our motor manufacturers, who really do believe they are going to feel the pinch right across the european union as and when this agreement is finalised? if you could give some indication of that today i would be obliged.
blue-card question. – mr president, ms schaake made a specific reference to the ‘conservative side of the house’ believing in sanctions for their own sake. first of all could she actually explain whom she means by the conservatives – does she mean my group, the ecr group? and whatever makes her think that we would be in favour of sanctions just for their own sake? sanctions have to be imposed with a political objective in mind. i will speak about that in my speech in a few minutes’ time, but i just wondered whether she could elucidate what she meant by that?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, iran’s nuclear military ambitions and its government’s constant refusal to engage with the iaea and un security council demands constitute a major threat to global security. they also pose a potential risk to peace in the middle east, with an existential threat to the state of israel in particular. they are also likely to lead to a regional arms race, with neighbouring gulf countries such as saudi arabia also wishing to acquire such nuclear weapons if iran is allowed to possess one in breach of its npt international legal obligations. we must now all hope that measures agreed by the european union, even with political support from countries like greece, spain and italy, which are large importers of iranian oil, will put economic pressure on the regime and make it much harder for the leadership to move money around the world and will force tehran to come back to the negotiating table. it shows that when there is a clear and urgent need for action the eu does not always dither and dodge the issue. this is europe speaking as one voice for once on the most serious global threat and i would encourage iran to start listening. traditionally iran should also showcase the legacy of its glorious persian culture. instead it is sadly one of the most brutal, theocratic dictatorships in the world, having suppressed all opposition to the last flawed presidential elections, and a country which carries out shocking public executions of homosexuals, those guilty of so-called sexual misdemeanours, including minors, as well as exporting terrorism via its proxies, such as hezbollah, to neighbouring countries. it also regularly interferes in neighbouring countries, from bahrain to militarily propping up the syrian ba’athist dictatorship. all the more reason, therefore, why it must never become a nuclear power. contrary to what some have said, no future or further options to prevent this should be excluded from the negotiations.
mr president, the lessons of the arab spring hold true for iran just as much as for any oppressive government anywhere in the world. khomeini, ahmadinejad and their fascist colleagues in tehran are not immune to the winds of change that are sweeping across the middle east. they see the writing on the wall and that is why they are intensifying their efforts to build a nuclear weapon so that they can reassert their authority in the region and hold the free world to ransom. we have surely by now recognised the abject failure of our policy of appeasement. our attempts to appease them has simply provided the regime with time to continue its promotion of terrorism worldwide and its construction of nuclear weapons at home against a background of desperate oppression and human rights abuse. therefore, i welcome tougher sanctions against this brutal terrorist regime in iran. it is worthy of note that they are one of the few remaining countries who still support assad in syria. there is no place for dialogue with these tyrants. let us work robustly for regime change.
blue-card question. – mr president, does mr preda agree with me that the gravest threat to peace in the middle east and the gulf region is a nuclear-armed iran, and therefore that maintaining the threat of military action is vital in ensuring it complies with the will of the international community?
mr president, it is quite right that governments across the world are deeply concerned at iran’s nuclear programme and the threat to global security that is posed. as many colleagues have said, this is a brittle regime not concerned with the human rights of its citizens, and one which has posed a constant threat to the state of israel and contributes to the tinder box situation in the middle east. it is therefore quite right that appropriate sanctions are put in place in order to encourage iran to enter into negotiations. a further escalation of the nuclear programme, which is undoubtedly about developing nuclear weapons, or attempts at acts such as closing the strait of hormuz, would be entirely unacceptable. i welcome the resolution of the international community in this matter. the decision by the uk, the us and french governments in sending warships and the aircraft carrier through the waters of the strait of hormuz sent the right signal. it is important that we have one voice and the resolve to stand together to protect the safety of our citizens, but these must not only be about dialogue and diplomacy: we need to retain the threat that actually we will take action if this continues.
mr president, on weapons of mass destruction, one should remember how politicians and media liars queued up to demand action against iraq over wmds. that propaganda lie justified sanctions and an illegal war. meps who voted for sanctions against iraq over those non-existent wmds might have meant well, but they helped to murder hundreds of thousands of iraqi children, who died through lack of food and medicine. now it is nuclear weapons of mass destruction. it is a new target, iran, but the main victims will be the same – children – because a successful oil and banking embargo would make it impossible for iran to buy enough food and medicine for its population. if the eu votes for sanctions it exposes itself as bankrupt – not merely financially, but morally too. if saudi wahabis and zionist neo-cons want war with iran, that is their business, but it is not ours, and we should stay out of it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, mr griffin has a liking for iran with its existential threats to the state of israel. the words ‘neo-cons’ and ‘zionist’ were a bit of a giveaway, i am afraid. that is where, i am afraid, he and his party come from politically. but i wanted to ask him a more serious question relevant to the debate. if he believes that iran is pursuing a peaceful option for its nuclear programme, what on earth does it need 20 – or even 50 – percent enriched uranium for?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am no friend of iran. i am very critical of islam and all things islamic, and the islamic threat to europe. but, as regards the middle east, that is the affair of the countries of the middle east. it is not for us to interfere. when the iranians look at what happened to libya – which did not have effective weapons – you really cannot blame them for wanting to defend themselves, if that is what they are doing. as for weapons of mass destruction, however, we have heard the lies before and i think we are hearing the lies again.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have to say that i am sick and tired of people comparing the iranian quest for nuclear weapons to what is happening in israel or pakistan or even india. israel is not a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and neither are the other two countries. iran is. iran is in violation of its international obligations. mr angourakis talks about being a world policeman. well, the security council is indeed the world policeman and is in charge of global security. so, mr angourakis, what is wrong with iran being forced to adhere to its international obligations?
mr president, as the high representative will know, in english we have the expression ‘the elephant in the room’ to describe something which we know is there but we do not officially recognise. well, the european union has a ‘bear on the doorstep’ in the shape of russia. my first point relates to what we say – i will come on to what we do in a minute. what we say in our official statements in relation to russia is very modest. i do not think it really reflects the attitudes of russians. on my recent visits to russia i found really very deep discontent with the decline in democracy in that very important country. there is corruption, and there is a clear failure of the democratic process. this so-called ‘managed democracy’ might be acceptable in egypt, where my friend ayman nour has been prevented from standing as a candidate in the presidential elections, but it is wholly ridiculous that grigory yavlinsky has been banned from standing as a presidential candidate in russia. when it comes to what we do, apart from making clearer statements criticising the failure of democracy in russia, i would pay tribute to the commission and the eas for increasing the budget for the european instrument for democracy and human rights by 34% in response to the arab spring, and i hope that we can focus quite a lot of that effort on russia itself.
mr president, the bbc is currently broadcasting a series entitled ‘putin, russia and the west’. in the second programme, tony blair’s former aide jonathan powell recounts the famous ‘spy rock’ scandal story. the kremlin had accused mi6 of funding russian human rights groups and other ngos and using a fake rock located in a moscow square filled with electronic equipment to communicate with their secret agents. mr powell confirmed this story (whether it is true or not), and the bbc elevated it to the status of a scoop by issuing a press release. the fsb reacted promptly, publicly accusing two leading ngos – memorial and golos – of being subversive and extremist organisations funded by the west. both organisations are now under systematic harassment by the authorities. powell’s claim is either untrue or illegal under the official secrets act. the bbc is guilty of gross journalistic irresponsibility, and this shows once again that putin’s is a gangster regime.
mr president, i hope that if the vice-president/high representative is extending sanctions against individuals in the russian regime she will include mr n.e. konkin, who is the secretary of the central electoral commission. this is the commission which has rejected the approach by grigory yavlinsky of the yabloko to be a candidate for the presidency. his supporters collected over 2.5 million signatures in 71 regions of the russian federation between 24 december and 10 january, the only time really open to them – including getting notaries to check them – and the electoral commission has declared 20% of them invalid. the party is now being investigated by the public prosecutor of moscow who is asking where the server of its website is located. it seems to me that this is a politically-motivated move and a blatant disregard of democratic principles and international standards which will deny the russian people the choice of an open, democratic, modern european perspective. i hope, vice-president/high representative, that you will be able to intervene to make sure that mr yavlinsky is allow to stand in the election on 4 march.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs on this recommendation. it may bear my name, but it is the result of collective effort on a cross-party basis. one of the most important tools we have in our foreign policy toolkit is that of the sanction or restrictive measure, and this report aims to make our current policies on restrictive measures coherent and consistent. it recommends that all external restrictive measures be matched by an equivalent approach towards the activities of authoritarian leaders when they come within the union’s borders. by allowing them to act with impunity within our borders as we currently do, we undermine our foreign policy, and yet we currently allow them to shield their often dubiously-acquired gains within our banking systems. we offer them the incentive and the capacity to continue with corruption and the exploitation of their people and their resources. the main focus of this report is to advocate a consistent approach to authoritarian leaders that is in tune with our values and visions. we recommend updating our policies to make them more proportionate, more targeted and more humane, and to use the new tools given us in the lisbon treaty to create a multi-instrument strategy to be coherent and effective. it seeks to prohibit them from holding financial and material assets within our borders, commits us to a more rigorous adherence of travel bans so that they cannot travel within our borders for non-humanitarian purposes, and asks member states to prosecute those within the eu suspected of assisting them in circumventing sanctions policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there is no doubt that sport has an important place in europe. not only does it generate billions of euros and many thousands of jobs, but it also provides health and joy to millions. i am passionate about sport myself. under the lisbon treaty, parliament’s new supporting competence in sport should have provided it with the opportunity to explore ways the eu could help grassroots sport through volunteering initiatives and community sports development etc., but sadly this report misses the opportunity. it has turned into a matter of how the eu can take advantage of the popularity of professional sport – what sport can do for the eu instead of what the eu can do for sport. the report focuses mainly on professional football. it takes little account of minority or grassroots sport – where i believe the focus should have been. the eu can have a role in influencing some aspects of sport – the fight against doping and cross-border gambling etc., but the report goes much too far in calling for the eu itself, rather than individual member states, to sign up to wada and to doping conventions. the report also ignores the limits of eu power by proposing special tax regimes and impinging on the right of member states to decide on their educational curricula, and touches on social security provisions. all of these are in the realm of the member state and not of the eu. but most damaging is the attempt to make national sports teams wear the eu flag on their shirts and to fly the eu flag at all sporting events. at first this was compulsory and now it is voluntary, but the proposal to have the eu flag on national teams is still outrageous and unnecessary. sport has a very special place in the united kingdom, and our national sports teams form a key part of our identities and our heritage. the eu is trying to impose an artificial european identity on us by forcing our athletes to wear its emblem. does this add value to sport? no it does not. it is simply an attempt to add value to the eu itself. it is for these reasons, amongst others, that i will be unable to vote in favour of this report tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, as a supporter and sponsor of cambridge university’s ladies’ rugby club for, i guess, 15 to 20 years, i wonder whether they should wear the logo on the front of their shirts or on the back?
mr president, i do not wish to reply.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, paragraph 100 of this report clearly states that you would like to see the eu flag at major sporting events and on the jerseys of athletes. are we now going to see the eu flag at the british olympics, at the champions league final or even on the shirt of the england captain? this is nothing more than sheer eu propaganda and vanity. the eu has never been so unpopular, yet here you are, wanting to stamp your flag on sporting stars in the hope that you can force the people to love you. but they will not. what you propose also seems to break the rules of sporting competitions. for example, under law 4, decision 1 of the fifa laws of the game, it states: ‘the team of a player whose basic compulsory equipment has political slogans or statements will be sanctioned by the competition organiser or fifa.’ what right do you think the eu has to interfere in sport in such a way to encourage countries to break the rules? it is hypocritical, because the eu is in effect a political organisation. you even say in paragraph 20 of the report that political propaganda should be banned, which is hypocritical. athletes proudly wear the flag of their own national countries. they should not wear the flag of the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i agree with mr nuttall but i do not think he goes far enough. surely this is a disgrace and surely it raises a quandary for sports fans because, for example, in the world cup, if the national flag and the eu flag are being displayed, then who are sports fans supporting – their country or the eu? would mr nuttall not agree with me that they cannot support the eu because it is not a country?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would like to agree with my colleague. the eu is not a country; the eu is a false state. what is being created is something very dangerous, because false states like the soviet union only ever break up in one of two ways. they break up in peaceful divorce, like czechoslovakia – which is the way in which i hope this organisation will break up – or in bloody revolution, like yugoslavia – which i fear very much indeed.
mr president, may i too congratulate you on your election. being british, i understand the important role that sport plays in our lives. what i do not understand is why the eu should be meddling in the business of sport. the eu should focus on growth, jobs and the single market. this report has been through seven committees and i have shadowed it on behalf of the ecr group in two of them. i had intended to talk today about the british women who are sporting heroes to millions, such as rebecca adlington, kelly holmes and paula radcliffe. i wanted to talk to you today about how excited my home constituency of london is to welcome the world’s olympic and paralympics athletes later this year. but i cannot. because i have to use this speech to denounce this report’s calls to fly eu flags at major sporting events and for the flag to be displayed on athletes’ clothing. i must also condemn the proposals to waste money on the european capital of sport at this time of austerity. the brussels bubble needs to remember that we live in hard times. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, entirely voluntary – it should not even be mentioned at this stage. we are here to support sport. i do not mind supporting sport – we are here to support our national teams. i do not feel it is the right area to address this, and it should not really be in it at all. the report would be stronger without this ‘voluntary or not voluntary’.
mr president, northern ireland is passionate about sport. i say this in particular because, in the last 18 months, three proud ulster men have brought home three world golfing majors to a very small part of the united kingdom. somehow or other i do not quite think that the flag of the eu would have warmed the heart or brought a tear to the eye in quite the same way as that ulster flag did on those very special occasions. however, i want to turn your attention to recital ah of this report tonight, which states that international competitions continue to constitute a reference model and action should be taken against naturalisations of convenience. in this context, i believe it is right to highlight the continuing problem faced by the irish football association, the governing body of football in northern ireland, which in recent years has seen several players declare allegiance to the republic of ireland despite being born in the united kingdom and having represented northern ireland throughout junior levels.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to give a very strong welcome to this report on behalf of my group. i am involved in parliament with waste management via my membership of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and i have to say how interesting and refreshing it was to read this report from a slightly different perspective, because it does take out a lot of what i might call the vested interests (and i mean that in the nicest possible way) – people who have their views and have had them for a long time and have worked very hard to get what they want through. sometimes it is difficult to lift your head up and look at the big picture, so a report such as this, i think, is really very useful. of course it is about a subject which very clearly and very closely concerns all of the people that we represent. there are very few subjects for me as a constituency mep that i get quite so much passion from my voters about as waste management. i feel that it is an area in which we, the european parliament, stand to be judged. if we do not get it right and if we do not make sure that we enforce, then all of the talking that we do here comes to nothing. all of that is encompassed in this very interesting and useful report. there are huge differences in the way that member states deal with the problem of rubbish, and i actually welcome the fact that we have those differences. i welcome the fact that this report recognises very strongly the issue of subsidiarity. it is about a waste framework directive. many of you will remember my predecessor, the lady that i replaced in this parliament – caroline jackson – who was the rapporteur on the waste framework directive. one of the principles that she was very keen on espousing was that member states should be allowed as much subsidiarity as possible within the framework of tight and challenging targets. i know from recent conversations with her that she is extremely disappointed that, having been given that freedom, member states are not delivering, because we are not making those targets. where we need to really tighten up – and this is in the report – is not on a whole raft of new regulations but on making those that we currently have work better and more effectively. a framework is just that. we need to get our member states working towards that framework. i was really shocked here to see how many infringements there are in my own member state – i thought we were doing ok. so in that sense, this is a great report for bringing that home. just on one point: i am happy to defend nuclear energy. but it has to be done with good technology, tightly controlled. the same is the case for incineration.
mr president, first, in raising this point of order, i would like to congratulate you again on an excellent victory last month after a campaign in which i came to greatly respect you. it is because of this respect that i wish to bring this point of order. in my candidacy for the office of president, i stood in part to protect rule 20(3) of the rules of procedure and to ensure that the president of our parliament would always be impartial. the rule in question states that ‘the president may speak in a debate only to sum up or to call speakers to order. should he wish to take part in a debate, he shall vacate the chair and shall not reoccupy it until the debate is over’. regardless of what was said yesterday to mr farage, some of which i do not necessarily agree with, i would like your firm assurance that you will respect rule 20(3) in the future and be the president for all of us, every single member, regardless of group or nationality. (applause)
mr president, i would request that we stick with the roll-call vote for all of the remaining amendments.
mr president, in this house when roll-call votes are requested by all sides – all parties and all groups – we would tend to respect those. notwithstanding that you are a new president to the parliament, to arbitrarily decide to take those votes en bloc, quite frankly, is outrageous. (applause from the ecr group) now it may be, president, that you are sitting there with an epp or an s&d voting list. there are other groups in this house who will obviously want to vote in slightly different ways. therefore i would like to conclude by saying that if i have a voting list for my group and we have requested according to the normal procedures, correctly and within time, for roll-call votes which happen to be separate and if we do not agree that they should be taken en bloc then, as with our other colleagues in other groups, that is what the procedure should be. i think you have made a mistake and i hope this house will proceed in a proper, democratic order in future.
mr president, may i just seek your advice on procedure please. first of all, i congratulate you for starting on time and trying to get things moving. i am very grateful to you; you are listening. but how do i explain either to the administration or indeed to my constituents that, when presented with a series of roll-call votes in which i wanted to vote for one or two of the options and against the others, they were taken en bloc and i was therefore not able to vote for or against the given items where necessary? how do i explain that to my constituents and how do i explain that to the administration when it comes to telling them that i wanted to vote for or against or abstain? (applause from the ecr group)
mr president, in this next vote there are quite a few votes and, since it is far more tiring to put one’s hand up and down than press a button, i wonder if we could take them all as a block?
madam president, the report on the eu’s foreign policy towards brazil, russia, india and china (the brics), and other emerging powers including turkey, indonesia and mexico, rightly acknowledges the increasing role these countries play in our foreign policy and the increasing contribution they are making to the global economy. we have also seen an increased participation in cooperation in the policies of the brics and the emerging powers on an international level, and this is to be encouraged at all times. we can now see the development of a multipolar system where economic and political power is distributed between a number of blocs. it is for this reason that i support the report’s proposal for the development of a coherent eu approach, to treat the brics as a single bloc and to also seek to establish partnerships with each of the countries within the bloc, which will prove to be invaluable when responding to global challenges such as climate change, terrorism and, of course, the financial crisis.
madam president, i took part in a debate in the united kingdom last month against our former europe minister about these brics. he said: ‘what you have to understand, hannan, people like you, is that we sell more to the netherlands than we sell to the whole of brazil. we sell more to belgium than we sell to the whole of china’. i replied, ‘that is precisely the problem’. which is the better long-term prospect? when we joined the european union in 1973, we had the impression that we were hitching our wagons to a powerful locomotive. western europe had indeed grown spectacularly in the years following 1945. it had far outperformed the united kingdom, burdened as it was with the enormous debt-to-gdp ratio that it had at the end of the second world war. but we can now see in retrospect that our timing could hardly have been worse. in relative terms, western europe stopped growing in the oil crisis of 1974 and never really got going again. we foolishly stood aside from the parts of the world which are still developing, where the growth still is, not least the anglosphere and commonwealth markets to which we are tied by habit, blood and speech. we are cabined, cribbed, confined in a dwindling customs union. we should raise our eyes to the broader, brighter and more distant horizons that our fathers took for granted.
madam president, i was opposed to a report in the committee on foreign affairs on brics on the basis that there was little politically in common between these rising powers other than their self-evident vast and growing economic and military strengths. i support good relations with the countries individually but i am under no illusion that china remains a one-party dictatorship, russia has an authoritarian government which openly tolerates high-level corruption, whereas india and brazil are liberal democracies with the same fundamental values, legal checks and balances and freedoms as eu member states. my group is particularly keen on advocating stronger trade links through deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with both india and brazil – the latter ideally through mercosur, as latin america enjoys the same growth rate of about 8% as china, and has a collective economy roughly the same size as china’s, but is totally different by sharing our common democratic values.
madam president, of course we in europe have a duty to ensure that we develop a coherent approach towards brics. however, i do want to stress the point that, in foreign policy terms, each brics country demands a different approach and a different treatment. of course they have all kinds of things in common economically. having lived in a brics country and worked in a situation where you can get things done quickly without the chains and encumbrances of red tape, i can only say that economically they are going to go places quickly. however, politically we have not shown here in the european union that we have the sophistication in foreign policy terms to develop and deal with these very varying political states in a sensible and sophisticated way. that is what we should be concentrating on and, if we cannot do that, we should leave it to member states who can.
madam president, as previous speakers have said, i think it is very important that we recognise that the bric countries are different and that when looking at the global outlook we do not treat them as one large monolith. as pink floyd might have said, we should not treat them as another bric in the wall. what we should be looking at is the granularity, and the differences between individual countries. so, for example, brazil offers great prospects for many companies across the eu. the same goes for russia but the problem is, as kasparov said, when it comes to elections you already know the result, but you do not know what the outcome might be. india is the world’s largest democracy, with over a billion people and the rule of law, but not actually enough economic liberalisation. and when we look at china, there has been the economic liberalisation but not enough freedom and human rights. all these things can only be enhanced with greater trade from the eu, but it is time that we started to try to match the growth of the brics countries rather than bring in policies such as the financial transaction tax which would actually reduce growth in the eu in these difficult times.
madam president, i welcome the report on a consistent policy towards regimes against which the eu applies restrictive measures. if the eu and not national governments are deemed best placed to lead on a particular issue, then consistency should be paramount. this report puts forward what seem to be balanced recommendations to the council for when the eu needs to place sanctions on these regimes. it is important, however, that the eu should develop clearer definitions of what sanctions criteria are, which should also be in line with the eu’s strategy on human rights. it is equally necessary to gain support for the eu sanctions policy from all of our international partners when they have been applied to third countries, which would only strengthen the impact of the policy globally. clearly the use of sanctions needs to be coupled with diplomacy, which is often the preferred method of responding to authoritarian regimes by the majority of our member states and should be respected as the preferred collective tool.
madam president, people often do not realise the extent to which the european union aggressively exports its ideology. just as the us did after the second world war and just as the soviet union did during the revolutionary period, so the european union attempts to encourage other parts of the world to form regional blocs in mimicry of its own structures. it does not just make its aid dependent on reproductive rights and so on, but it very often – and far more damagingly – requires countries to be part of whatever regional bloc is nearby. it makes clear that it will not sign trade or aid deals with individual sovereign states but will only deal bloc to bloc. people often do not realise the extent to which organisations like mercosur, the central american union and the african, caribbean and pacific union, are not just bodies encouraged by the european union, but were really creatures of the eu, sponsored by the commission and largely dependent on it for their financing. this creates a beautifully circular argument for european federalists who say, ‘we have to be part of this big bloc because that is what the rest of the world is doing’, when of course they are obliging the rest of the world to do so. in reality, it is the little countries that are doing well. the wealthiest countries of the world are the monacos and the uaes. in the top ten only one state has a population of 7 million. it is by being this large, elephantine presence that we have made ourselves poorer and less relevant.
madam president, targeted sanctions are an essential soft power economic mechanism against misbehaving states that the eu can deploy to enforce the combined political will of its member states. most recently the measures agreed by the eu in denying iran some of its oil revenues are making it harder for the leadership to move money around the world, as a result of its non-cooperation with mandates and orders from the iaea and the un to conform with its international obligations over its nuclear programme, and this will now put much more pressure on tehran to come back to the negotiating table. i therefore welcome the watson report and especially its recommendations for developing a consistent and coherent sanctions policy in the council of ministers, and its emphasis on the importance of acquiring wider international support such as the un for eu sanctions to give them even further punch and effect in future.
madam president, i welcome the report on cross-border transfer of company seats as this has clear economic benefits for businesses. as a consequence, businesses are able to relocate, or will be able to relocate, with much more ease, thus saving them much-needed time and, in many instances, money in determining where their company seat is located. i strongly believe that cross-border company migration is a fundamental part of ensuring the completion of the internal market and will enable us to adapt to a more coherent eu-wide policy on these procedures. it is going to be welcomed by businesses across the eu and it is particularly pertinent when one of the main complaints i hear from businesses is that they are prevented from migrating to other parts of the eu, given the existence of high administrative burdens in some areas that they would prefer to avoid. it is for these reasons that i am happy to support this report.
madam president, i was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this report and i would like to make a couple of points to support my vote in that regard. in that opinion we try to emphasise that articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union guarantee freedom of establishment for all companies and firms, ensuring that there are no barriers. cross-border company migration is one of the crucial elements in the completion of the internal market. however, there is a real lack of consistency in legislation on transfers and on procedures for transferring registered offices, real head offices, existing companies or firms incorporated under national law from one member state to another. we need to eliminate these problems. but in doing so we must ensure that any legislation prevents abuses such as the setting-up of mailbox companies and protects the interests and guarantees the existing rights of creditors and employees.
madam president, the report on the budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid takes on board the criticisms of the european court of auditors in that it recognises the instances in which accountability and transparency of the monitoring systems and internal audit procedures could be significantly improved. it also looks at how eu funds are used and managed by partner organisations such as the ngos and un agencies, and places greater emphasis on measuring results against initial indicators when the evaluations are taking place. the report also proposes various improvements that could be made to the framework partnership agreements, notably with the process of selecting partners to try to ensure that we achieve best value for money in addition to gaining the experience and expertise that they can offer. for me this is an important justification as my constituents back home in wales are continuously questioning the value gained by uk contributions to the eu budget.
madam president, in the european parliament in strasbourg recently i met a very clever man from nigeria called thompson ayodele. he talked me through a number of statistics on foreign aid, and the figures were pitilessly clear. he showed that international assistance was not useless, it was actively harmful. if you compared countries in receipt of it with countries not in receipt of it over the same periods, the countries not in receipt grew faster, were more democratic, developed more impressively, and for the obvious reason: foreign aid breaks the link between taxation, representation and expenditure. it allows governments to remain in office without the support of their populations. there are lots of things we could be doing to help developing countries. we could open our markets; we could abolish the common agricultural policy; we could encourage their exporters to sell. but the one thing that is absolutely not going to help is giving this kind of assistance, especially when we do not have the money. this is the crazy thing! we are borrowing money we do not have in order to give it to countries whose situation would thereby be worsened, all in order to make ourselves feel virtuous.
(microphone off at start of speech) ... ecr group are in favour of the report on the budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid. as a group we welcome the aims of the working group on accountability for and audit of disaster-related aid, namely to set out common standards of guidance and good practice and thus address the challenges of transparency and accountability in this area. we are also keen to see more involvement of the beneficiaries of the aid in the process of aid planning and management, in an attempt to prevent the negative effects of humanitarian aid that can occur without careful monitoring by all the parties, for example the discouragement of local food production by the supply of surplus food aid coming from an unreformed cap of the european union. i believe that there must be more conditionality, as well as accountability, with regard to the results, and that more careful monitoring must be put in place to measure the output of humanitarian aid against pre-set indicators. for example, there should be no aid whatsoever for a bric country like india or china.
madam president, i have to ask the question whether this is really working, and working in a way in which it was supposed to be in the first instance. one of the greatest problems i have found in talking to people on the ground is the lack of continuity. by the time they get a programme into existence, the european union changes its mind and goes on and creates another programme which they have to go through all the bureaucracy and red-tape to qualify for again. i think we have got to get it right. i think it has the chance and it can deliver and do good. but there is too much bureaucracy, there is too much red tape, there is too much control, and people are not allowed to get on with doing the work themselves on the ground. i personally had a recent experience in uganda where i went out with a local faith-based organisation who are drilling one new well every week, bringing water to miles around and doing a fantastic job. those are the type of things we should be doing, when you see the disease and the way in which disease is being reduced in children, allowing them to live and giving them life.
madam president, i was interested to read this report and pleased to see that it did pick up, albeit in a rather desultory way in the end, the issue of whether humanitarian aid and assistance has negative effects. i think that is the discussion that we should have in much more depth here in the parliament because we tend to think it is a good thing per se. i happen to agree with overseas aid. i think that properly targeted and carefully monitored it can achieve great things. however, i was particularly struck when listening to the rapporteur this morning talking about his misgivings about our working with the un. this really was a disturbing part of the report and, if we cannot get that right, then we should seriously consider suspending some of those programmes until we are clear that they are acting in the best interest of the people that we are trying to help.
(microphone off at start of speech) … will no doubt be familiar with descartes’ famous thought experiment of the little malicious demon which could control our reality by limiting our senses. not for the first time i felt that the european union is that cartesian thought experiment come to life. at the recent summit we had declaration after declaration about the need to create jobs, to reduce unemployment. and yet almost every measure that comes out of the european union, on maternity and paternity leave, on limited working times, on the 48-hour week, on all the health and safety stuff, has precisely the opposite effect. there is this extraordinary gap between our proclaimed intention and everything that we are doing in reality. the truth is we meps do not have the capacity to create jobs. we are, if you like, recipients of the largesse of the private sector which does create the jobs. but we do have the capacity to destroy jobs and we have been doing that by these intrusive regulations. the one thing we could do is to get out of the way so that entrepreneurs can make things, buy things, sell things and create employment for other people. in a variation of hippocrates’ wisdom, we should first do no harm.
madam president, i forget now how many council meetings we have had since the crisis began, but there have been an awful lot of them, that is the one thing for sure. the other thing for certain is that we are still waiting on some real results actually coming from any of these council meetings. all the time these results are not coming forward the uncertainty continues to grow in countries within the eurozone, and that is affecting everybody else, both within and without the eurozone. to be very honest, i can see no clear certainty how they are going to be able in any way to amend or bring things around as far as the constitution is concerned. it is by no means certain, even if they agree on a constitution, that it will ever be approved. i think this is a great weakness. so what we need in the future is real decisions and we must not go back to the nationalistic tendencies that we witnessed in this chamber yesterday. i hope i never see that again because that is the one thing that should not happen. we should be acting in a positive way to resolve the problem, not in a negative way.
madam president, last december my party in the british house of commons put forward a motion which commended david cameron our prime minister on his veto and his strength in opposition at the december summit. therefore we viewed this latest summit as a test of that resolve. we were sadly disappointed. the question now being asked across the united kingdom is what happened to the veto, what happened to the stand of principle to not allow eu institutions to police the fiscal compact? this agreement represents a new precedent within the eu. one where, if 10, 15, 20 or 25 member states cannot find agreement across all member states, they simply go ahead and are allowed to use the mechanisms of the eu. this was what was vetoed in december, yet this was accepted in january. the people of the uk deserve an explanation but most of all they deserve a say in our relationship with the eu, which is like a juggernaut which rolls on, while a uk prime minister refuses to man the roadblock.
madam president, we have european council after european council and each time we are told it is decision time, we have to get serious about solving the eurozone crisis. but actually we never look at the two potential results. there are two potential outcomes, yet we remain in the impasse. the first is that some of the weaker countries leave the eurozone and you have a stronger eurozone left behind, a sort of tougher euro which the markets recognise is too tough for them to break. the alternative is that you accept that you have to have a fiscal union – the fu – with transfers from the richer countries to the poorer countries, led by germany and those who want to see the eurozone not as an economic project but as a building block towards a political project, as a building block towards a united states of europe or a federal europe. if that is what they want, they have to be prepared to pay. it is time for germany to put up or shut up. do they want to keep the eurozone together with 17 countries or do they want to leave it to the markets?
madam president, i support the motion for a resolution concerning iran and its nuclear programme since iran has failed to prove that its nuclear programme is a peaceful development. with a lack of cooperation with international bodies, i have a number of concerns about this nuclear programme and its possible intentions. it is therefore, sadly, a necessary step to prohibit the importation of crude oil from iran, twinned with imposing a number of other financial measures against the central bank of iran. the sanctions proposed are therefore, in my opinion, a proportionate and reasonable response by the eu at the request of its member states.
madam president, i was unusual among british conservatives in opposing the iraq war and indeed in opposing the prolongation and permanence of the mission in afghanistan, although i had supported limited action against the taliban regime. one of the reasons i was worried about the western mission was that it seemed to me strategically erroneous to remove from both of iran’s flanks what had up until then been powers which had been anti-tehran and anti-ayatollah and had contained a regime which has given ample evidence of its readiness to strike anywhere in the world. it sponsors militias and terrorist organisations in central asia, in the balkans; it struck even as far afield as london and buenos aires. there is an argument that we got the whole thing wrong, that we should have had nothing to do with iran, that we should have just stayed out of the way. but we are now in a situation where we have embarked on action and, as polonius says, ‘beware of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, bear’t that the opposed may beware of thee.’ this is, i think, the most important foreign policy issue of our age and it will take extraordinary resolve to see it through safely.
madam president, parliament now has codecision on sporting matters and i am disappointed with the recommendations made in this first report. this weekend sees the start of the six nations championship, where wales will proudly play their national sport. as an avid rugby supporter i cannot help but see this as a missed opportunity for the parliament. the report should have focused on the positive contribution that sports can have on both participants and supporters in terms of instilling values of respect, fair play and social inclusion, and should have focused on how the eu could help the development of grass-root sports. it instead concentrates on how the eu can take advantage of the increasing popularity of professional sport, including how to develop a database to share information on hooligans, which effectively duplicates the work already being conducted by europol. the report proposes that all agents representing european sportsmen have their fiscal residence in the eu. this clearly does not serve to promote sport across the eu and certainly not globally. today’s vote was undemocratic, however, when smaller groups requested roll-call votes. it is because they need to register disappointment on certain parts of reports. today, sadly, that was denied by the president.
madam president, we had some procedural problems with this vote today, as you will have seen, and i hope that they were nothing more than a mistake. i can understand that sitting where you do is a complicated and difficult job; there is an awful lot going on in the chamber and the rules of procedure are not easy to follow. but there was an issue of a lot of sensitivity for people in my party to do with the displaying of eu colours on sports vests. in what looked like a flagrant disregard for what the rules of procedure specify, our request for separate votes was set to one side. what alarmed me was that the president used the argument that, as long as the chamber had decided by majority, this was all right. it was ok to set aside what the rules say. that is of course arbitrary government. we are all bound by our rule book, including the person who sits where you sit. as i say, i hope this was simply an error but i would urge all the people who occupy the president’s chair, please to pay strict regard to the rules of procedure, which are there and which are designed to protect individual members in smaller groups in this chamber.
madam president, i voted along with the rest of the ecr group – where we were allowed to, that is – against the report on the european dimension in sport. in my opinion the report focuses far too much on the commercial side of sport. instead, the development of grass roots in sport is overlooked in favour of developing means to take further advantage of the popularity of professional sport. instead of, for instance, creating a new eu database of football hooligans, which is already a europol competence, we should focus on national authorities developing sports facilities at the more local level, with the aim that hooliganism can be diminished thanks to greater community involvement and the ability to get along with others or work as part of team. we should focus on skills; participation in sport has been proven to be a way of teaching these skills. we should be giving more people the chance to learn a sense of discipline and self-worth rather than focusing exclusively on introducing new eu legal rules on fiscal residence for sports agents, as the report seems to suggest.
madam president, i have several reservations relating to the proposals in this report. one such proposal sought to politicise sport by having the eu flag flown at all major sports events in the eu. another proposal sought to politicise our sporting athletes by making them have an eu logo on their clothing. i cannot support those proposals, because i do not believe you should politicise sport. i certainly do believe we should encourage sports participation in schools, increase the awareness of social responsibilities in sports stadiums, highlight the importance of volunteers in sport, increase the attention to the needs of disabled sports people. i call for sport to benefit from eu structural funds. but in my 22 and a half years here i have never witnessed such a spectacle as i did today, when the president of this parliament shamefully took his actions. i do not agree with mr hannan, because the president of this parliament is well advised by the people to his left and to his right. he made that decision and he made the wrong decision and that needs to be retracted in the interest of the minority groups in this parliament.
madam president, as the chairman of the european parliament’s friends of sport group i took a particular interest in this report, as did many other members of that group and the relevant committees. it is interesting that we wanted in our group to vote against the display of the eu flag on national sports jerseys. surely it is important that we allow supporters to decide that they can support their own country? but i think what is more important than anything else is actually what sport teaches us. sport is all about fair play. sport is all about adhering to the rules. as my old school song used to say, it is all about tasting the sweet of victory and the salt of defeat. at the european level there have been moves towards more fair play. uefa, the football organisation, has a uefa fair play award. but when it came to democracy in this chamber today, the rules were thrown out. the spirit of fair play was completely ignored by the president of the parliament. had there been a fair-play award for democracy, schulz would not have got it.
madam president, it is a report that highlights the fact that, despite the directive being adopted, many times we have actually seen huge numbers of breaches across different member states. it is certainly true that it has not been uniformly implemented across the 27 member states. this is reinforced by the sheer number of petitions and letters received by the parliament, where eu citizens, including a number of my welsh constituents, have also directly expressed their concern about potential breaches of a number of such eu directives. it is time that we use all technology available to us and see this as a huge way of being able to embrace technology and deal with our waste effectively. i voted in favour of this report today in order that we can move things on. implementation of existing rules is all well and good but we also need to embrace that technology to move things forward.
madam president, i voted with the ecr group in favour of the report on the application of the waste management directive. the european parliament receives many petitions, including from the united kingdom, concerning issues of waste management and the infringement of the eu directives that govern it. it is evident from this fact that in many member states directives are not being transposed or enforced in a satisfactory way. we agree with the conclusions of the report that all illegal landfills should be closed, secured and rehabilitated. we also agree that guidance should be given as to the location of the landfill sites with relation to local housing, schools and health facilities and that there should be better inspections and more consultation when waste facilities are in their planning stages. furthermore i agree, particularly now that there is clean, high-temperature incineration technology available, that it is preferable to burn waste rather than placing it in landfill sites, especially given the increasing proportion of our waste that is now being recycled and, as i said, the technological improvements which are now being developed in this area.
madam president, as others have said, this is an extremely important subject and has got to be dealt with in a way that everyone can be happy with. it is a very difficult subject as well. illegal landfill sites cannot be tolerated anywhere and i think we have had some experience of that. i will not get involved in the detail, but there are very few people who have not had some experience of it. we should also make it clear that we cannot allow local and public authorities to get away with not stipulating standards and not bringing sites to the same standards as others. i have seen some of these sites where a lot of leaching was taking place and i believe better solutions can, should and must be found where necessary. this must end. by dragging our feet we are allowing it to continue. we certainly do not need any more eu agencies for waste management; i think it is time to move forward.
madam president, i supported the report today on the daphne programme, which it is hoped will make a contribution to assisting women who have been victims of domestic violence. it is only right that the commission focuses on strengthening programmes in member states which have so far limited participation in this programme, to ensure that victims are not being overlooked wherever they may be in residence. i agree that more support is needed in developing programmes to eradicate honour killings, particularly as there have been a number of high-profile cases in the uk, which indicates that more work needs to be done urgently on this emotive matter. whilst i have reservations about some of the recommendations made in this report, such as the proposal to allocate funding to candidate countries, i believe that on balance it was something that i could support.
madam president, i too voted with my group, the ecr group, in favour of the report on the daphne programme. the work that the daphne programme seeks to carry out is extremely valuable and the making available of some funding to ngos in all eu member states who require it in order to help combat violence against women and children – the most vulnerable members of our society, which is a truly shocking phenomenon – is one we should strongly support. the call on the commission to work with those member states whose participation in the programme so far has been weak, in the hope that all member states will be at a similarly reasonably high level in terms of their involvement, is also one we support. we should also support the move for the programme to focus more of its attention on the eradication of so-called – and rather shocking – honour killings and female genital mutilation, which sadly still goes on in some member states and should have absolutely no place whatsoever in a european society.
madam president, i welcome this report into the daphne programme, which can be a key tool in combating violence against women, children and young people across the eu. in my own constituency of northern ireland, figures show that domestic violence accounts for approximately one third of all crime, with the police service attending an average of 60 domestic-related incidents per day, with a large amount still going unreported. the daphne programme and others like it can play a pivotal role in the fight against domestic violence and abuse. in northern ireland there are many excellent programmes carried out at local level with outstanding work being done by local community groups across my constituency. i believe that such organisations are the key to combating issues of violence and abuse, as they are best placed to cater for the individual needs of citizens in their region. simpler and easier access to funding is essential and should be a feature of any new provision.
madam president, i voted with the ecr group in favour of the report on women’s situation in war. war crimes against women in conflict zones are atrocious and truly shocking and often subject to almost total impunity, as they are seen themselves as a means of warfare. as a result, women are not only the victims of regular military action but also the victims of sexual violence, mainly taking the form of rapes and even gang rapes in some cases. we agree that there is a need for more support for women’s organisations that operate locally in member states in order to raise awareness of women’s rights at a grass-root level, particularly in areas of conflict. we should also welcome the setting-up of a special eu representative on women, peace and security within the european external action service, again to help to deal with this very serious problem on the ground.
madam president, although this report was about women in war, i want to put on record in this house my gratitude to those women in northern ireland who have shown remarkable courage during a vicious terrorist campaign. for many years i have represented parts of belfast which have suffered the murderous effects of terrorist violence, sectarian division and economic and social deprivation. in the midst of this, women’s groups like shankill women’s centre and many others have shown tremendous leadership and done hugely important work in areas of education, training and employment, and community reconciliation. in rural northern ireland as well, women’s groups have been to the fore. although in rural areas isolation and distance are natural barriers, the same social, economic, sectarian barriers remain. we owe these groups a huge amount of our gratitude; i would like this house to have that on the record.
madam president, the millennium development goals set out a laudable collection of aims that the international community has pledged itself to achieve by 2015. for these to be realised, however, an essential prerequisite has to be fulfilled first, and that is universal access to modern and sustainable domestic power sources for the developing world’s population. such access would have obvious benefits in the fields of health, the environment and economic development. nevertheless, on this occasion i did not participate in the final vote of the neuser report.
madam president, i did vote for this report but only after very careful consideration, not because i do not believe that the poorest people in developing countries should have access to affordable energy – i very firmly do believe that – but because i do not believe that it is appropriate for the eu to seek to control how this comes about. the millennium development goals, which i largely support, are very clear. they have been agreed; we have road maps established towards their achievement by 2015. let us get on with that rather than confusing the picture by what is effectively an attempt to add another. let us not set out prescribed routes to energy development. the report mentions a number of market intervention measures and, although just short of recommending that we carry those through, i do believe we need to put a line down to say that market intervention should be avoided. energy is a market and the best way to supply and develop it is through market forces.
madam president, i voted against the report on the annual tax report. in my group, the ecr, we fully supported the report in its initial aims – preventing double taxation, tax fraud and policing tax havens etc., as these are clearly of concern. however, we could not agree with the report’s conclusions. we are as a group strongly in favour of the protection of national fiscal sovereignty in order to promote a low-tax competitive business environment throughout the european union. we do not believe that fiscal federalism will do anything to promote responsibility in tax management at a regional level, nor do we believe that greater economic efficiency will be achieved as a result. we agree with the sections of the report that address issues of transparency and believe that the number of loopholes in the system and the many uncertainties in the way it functions must be significantly reduced or reformed. we believe that better access to information on tax rules within the european union member states would go some way to address this matter.
madam president, i voted with the ecr group in favour of the annual report on eu competition policy. it is clear on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of this important report that the eu’s policy on competition has indeed brought many benefits for the welfare of european consumers. it has aided the free movement of goods and services, as well as capital, and has become a vital part of ensuring the prosperity of the single market. we support what the report has to say on the main areas it addresses, particularly state aid, collective redress, fines and settlement procedures, and strongly believe that with the suggested measures in place it will continue to be a very useful tool in preserving the economic level playing field within the single market. can i also pay a special tribute to italian prime minister, mario monti, who, as competition commissioner 10 years ago when i know him in this parliament, really put this essential eu competence on the political map as far as the countries like the united states were concerned. so well done, prime minister monti, and now you have to do the same in italy.
madam president, i have often been asked by my constituents what the european union has ever done for them. sometimes it is a bit of a struggle to give any coherent answer, depending on what the news of the day happens to be. it is particularly difficult in the context of representing a member state which is high up on the list of net contributors to the european budget. so i was delighted to be able to support this report, which really deals with a subject where i am always consistently able to point at something that the european union has done for us. eu competition policy is one area where i can be truly enthusiastic. it has provided that essential tool, eliminating the obstacles that mr tannock spoke about. i am particularly keen to see that the rapporteur has recognised the need to update rules. constant update to processes is vitally important to maintain consumer confidence in what we are doing.
in writing. − this week the parliament has been discussing the eu's relations towards the brics and other emerging powers. good relations with countries like brazil are vital, especially in terms of encouraging trade. one key area of interest to me is the trade of agricultural products. we import large amounts of meat from brazil; meat that comes from animals that do not have to comply with the same rigorous standards and regulation that our farmers are subjected to. one example is the introduction of yet another pointless and costly regulation to electronically identify all sheep within the eu. these new rules to monitor the movement of sheep are flawed. they require a 100% accuracy rate of recording to be achieved by farmers, a task which is impossible because the available technology is not 100% reliable. if our farmers fail to achieve a 100% accuracy rate, they face heavy financial penalties. this is completely unacceptable. i therefore urge the commission to review this regulation to allow some discretion to reflect the reality of the unreliable eid technology.
in writing. − i supported this report, in which parliament states that it ‘believes that the eu should formulate its position regarding a closer relationship with the brics, even taking into account the fact that the eu’s vision and the brics countries’ vision with regard to binding commitments and institutionalised regimes may not necessarily always be the same; believes also that support from the brics countries for effective multilateralism might be gained in exchange for stronger representation in relevant international institutions; insists that the challenges posed by the rise of the brics should be seen as an opportunity rather than a problem;’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr watson’s report. the eu sets high standards amongst its own membership in terms of justice and human rights. it is only right that we are consistent in our approach when dealing with third countries and this report addresses many of the key issues.
in writing. − it is estimated that within the last two decades, usd 150 billion has left the countries of north africa (algeria, morocco and tunisia) and that, in egypt, hosni mubarak and his family were estimated to have a personal fortune of between usd 50 billion and usd 70 billion, predominantly invested in the eu and us. this report (which i welcome) calls for the eu to deepen and strengthen its array of restrictive measures against recognised authoritarian regimes by targeting their personal and commercial actions within the eu in order to deny authoritarian leaders and their prime associates the right to own property or hold money in eu countries, to prevent authoritarian leaders and their prime associates from educating their families in eu countries, to prevent authoritarian leaders and their prime associates from travelling within the eu and to prohibit authoritarian leaders and their prime associates from operating business interests within the eu.
in writing. − i have long been at the forefront of ensuring that the eu maintains restrictive measures in place against key members of the mugabe regime in zimbabwe and am happy that the parliament has recognised the important role that restrictive measures can play in bringing about democratic change in repressive regimes. it is important that the eu and its member states work together with the other democracies in order to ensure maximum effectiveness of these measures. equally, the eu must become better at explaining that restrictive measures are not sanctions against the population of countries with autocratic rulers, but specific measures which only target those individuals and businesses that have directly benefited from their association with these autocratic regimes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the management or board of a company planning a transfer should be required to draw up a report and a transfer plan. before the management decides on the report and the transfer plan, the representatives of the employees or, if there are no representatives, the employees themselves, should be informed and consulted on the proposed transfer within the meaning of article 4 of directive 2002/14/ec(2). the report should be submitted to the shareholders and to the representatives of the employees or, if there are no representatives, to the employees themselves. the report should describe and justify the economic, legal and social aspects of the transfer and explain its consequences for the shareholders, creditors and employees, who may examine the report during a specified period which may be not less than one month or more than three months prior to the date of the meeting of shareholders approving the transfer.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which recognises the benefits of seeking new arrangements for the provision of funding by dg echo, together with its partners; calls at the same time for the diversity of the actors involved in financing and implementing the european humanitarian programmes – the united nations, the international red cross and red crescent movement, ngos – to be borne in mind, given that disasters often transcend national borders and require multilateral, coordinated responses; and encourages the work being done to strengthen the capacities of local stakeholders and increase assessment and rapid response capabilities on the ground through dg echo’s offices as well as field experts.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which acknowledges the importance of injunctive relief. in many cases, such as misleading advertising, lack of transparency of contracts, etc., damages might not occur and priority should be given to stopping any further unlawful behaviour. the commission itself has indicated how regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on consumer protection cooperation as well as directive 2009/22/ec on injunctions for the protection of consumer interests (the injunctions directive) can be improved in order to strengthen cooperation and injunctive relief.
in writing. − i want to thank my fellow shadows and the rapporteur working on the report on moving to collective redress. key areas of our work involved how to balance the needs of consumers and society to have recourse to a procedure for a common and related complaint and the implications for such an approach. in particular i am concerned that an overwhelming effect might be to bring in a similar system to that of the united states. this is to be resisted at all levels. similarly, the issue of competition and economic concentration lie at the heart of economic and industrial policy and are not simply procedural juridical matters.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i believe that a sectoral approach would be more appropriate than the introduction of a horizontal instrument. sectoral instruments, i.e. in competition law, have clear economic benefits whereas horizontal instruments may be applied in all areas of eu law and thus extend collective actions which i am firmly opposed to.
in writing. − i welcome the parliament’s rejection of the commission’s proposals. consumers must be provided with full and truthful information about their food and the commission must now go back and draft a decent proposal. claims on food labels about the health or nutritional benefits to consumers must be accurate and verifiable.
in writing. − i voted for this motion for a resolution, which states ‘whereas in the light of the underlying principles governing the selection of permitted nutrition claims on foodstuffs, as outlined above, the new nutrition claim proposed by the commission ‘now contains x% less of [nutrient]’, to be included in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, runs counter to the purpose and content of the basic instrument by being ambiguous, misleading and confusing to the average consumer;’.
in writing. − this resolution had my support as i felt it unfair to mislead customers with wrong nutritional information. the proposed changes would have allowed ‘of x% less...’ on sugar, salt and fat content. this could have made food appear healthier than it actually is and make it harder to compare products. our intention is to maintain a healthier population through encouraging companies to reduce the sugar, salt and fat content in food. the proposed changes would have instead provided a disincentive to improve the nutritional benefits. labels should be kept as clear as possible, allowing consumers to choose food according to their true nutritional value.
in writing. − i want food labels to be simple and honest about what is inside them. so today was a victory for consumers, as the european parliament supported me and my colleagues from across parliament who objected to a new ‘x% less’ nutrition claim on food labels. the proposed claim had the potential to be very misleading. given the number of nutrition claims already allowed, it is already hard for consumers to know which product is the best for themselves and their family. in particular, the new claim could have caused confusion with the existing ‘reduced’ claim, which actually requires a larger reduction of 30%, and this must be in comparison with a range of similar products on the market rather than previous versions of the same product. now that parliament has said no to this claim, the commission will have to rethink their approach. nutrition claims should be used to allow consumers to make healthier choices, if they want to, and not as a marketing ploy. we want to encourage manufacturers to reformulate their products to make them healthier, but it has to be meaningful, and not misleading.
in writing. − i, like millions of other consumers, am confused every time i visit the supermarket. labelling on food which tells me that an item contains 10% less salt or 20% fewer colourings is meant to be informative, yet, as often as not, such labels lead to mix-ups and misunderstandings. 10% less than what, i ask myself? that is also a question that this report has asked. i think that it has come up with the wrong answer. when i buy a packet of crisps telling me that it now contains 10% less fat, i assume that means that it contains 10% less fat than the previous recipe for the same product, rather than 10% less fat than a similar product. it is important that we all eat well and have the right information to be able to make the correct health choices, but this report makes things 100% more confusing rather than 100% clear.
in writing. − with my fellow ukip meps i abstained on this resolution because, although we agree with some elements, we strongly disagree with others, in particular the imposition of a financial transaction tax. since the only option was a single vote on the report in its entirety, we could not support the gue/ngl proposal.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained on this resolution because, although we agree with some elements, we strongly disagree with others, in particular the imposition of a financial transaction tax. since the only option was a single vote on the report in its entirety, we could not support the gue/ngl proposal.
in writing. − ukip meps abstained on this resolution because, although we agree with some elements, we strongly disagree with others, in particular the imposition of a financial transaction tax. since the only option was a single vote on the report in its entirety, we could not support the gue/ngl proposal.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, in which parliament rejects the international treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union and the recent changes in the emu architecture (economic governance, european semester, pact for the euro plus) and states that it believes that these changes form the most reactionary, undemocratic and extreme neoliberal response to the current crisis.
in writing. − the governance treaty agreed by the european council on monday was without question a better solution than the previous agreement. it now takes into account issues that i feel are vital; the need to focus more on growth, demonstrating fiscal restraint and working within the normal eu system wherever possible. however, these improvements were somewhat overshadowed by the fact that, as stressed in the passed resolution, it would have been better to have reached an agreement under normal eu law. i sincerely hope that the european council will take note of the concerns raised by the parliament and bear this in mind in future treaties.
in writing. − with some irony, i use a french expression to describe my reaction to this report: déjà vu. when will the european parliament get it into its head that more europe is not the answer to the current financial crisis? when will the european parliament stop rearranging deckchairs on the titanic and get down to the business of creating growth and jobs by completing the single market and promoting free trade with countries like india? and when, oh when, will the european parliament realise that no matter how many resolutions it passes calling for an eu-wide financial transaction tax, that no such tax is going to materialise? the european parliament may wail, gnash its teeth or whimper liking a petulant child who wants a bicycle for christmas, but it will not change the fact that taxation is a decision which needs to be taken unanimously by the member states and the united kingdom will not relent in its opposition to an eu-only tax. this is why the ftt will not happen, there are countless other reasons why it shouldn’t happen, first among which is the fact that even according to the commission’s own figures it would be tremendously damaging to europe’s economy.
in writing. − i fully share this house’s concerns regarding iran’s nuclear development. i represent the snp, a party which opposes weapons of mass destruction, in principle, and rejects nuclear energy as a viable energy source.
in writing. − i voted against the idea of a military solution to the nuclear conflict with iran.
in writing. − i voted against paragraph 100 because i do not consider that the eu’s popularity will be improved through silly measures such as the one suggested. nevertheless, as a whole the report is a good one and i welcome this house’s support for the principle of national sports organisations.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which points out that the support and promotion of sport for people with intellectual or physical disabilities should be a priority in the eu, considering its important role in delivering social inclusion, public health and volunteerism across borders.
in writing. − since the lisbon treaty came in to effect, the european institutions have gained responsibility for sport. an eu-level approach allows us to tackle important aspects which affect all member states, such as obesity and the role sport can play in tackling it. i support this report, which has many good elements. i am glad that wearing the eu flags at major sporting events is not compulsory and at the discretion of those taking part.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it takes positive steps towards ensuring fair play on and off the pitch. as a keen advocate of sports, the proposal promises to promote more cooperation between the 27 member states on sporting issues such as a better exchange of information on hooligans to prevent them attending international matches. in addition, the report also guaranteed to tackle the trafficking of doping substances, match-fixing, illegal betting, and money laundering by making them criminal offences. the above proposals and others in the report will bring a higher degree of fairness to sport across the eu.
in writing. − yesterday when i spoke out against this report in the chamber, i was barracked and jeered by europhiles because of my opposition to the recommendation to place the eu flag on sportsmen’s uniforms. i was reminded via a blue card question that the recommendation was purely voluntary. i replied that while it may be voluntary there should be no such reference to the eu flag in sport, be it voluntary or otherwise. i find it increasingly difficult to persuade my constituents of the benefits of a single market when the eu time and time again takes every opportunity to both depart from the original objectives of a community of trading nations and also to impose a federal eu identity on its unwitting and unwilling citizens. natasha kuchinskaya, one of the first soviet gymnasts to take part in the olympics, described the ussr’s attitude to sport as follows: ‘sport was considered the prestige of the government. if sport was strong, government was strong.’ i am all for a strong trading bloc which creates growth and jobs, but we must resist the eu becoming a manipulative, propagandist superstate.
in writing. − i agree that member states need to ensure better implementation of waste management policy. i am adamant that enforcement is a critical factor but i firmly believe that this is an issue for each member state rather than brussels bureaucrats. the northern ireland waste management strategy agreed that strong government leadership and effective implementation are crucial to success. as well as making an important contribution to sustainable development, waste management is being reflected in many areas of northern ireland government policy. it is the responsibility of individual member states to apply the principles of sustainable development to waste management in ways that protect and enhance the natural and physical environment and the use of resources and energy as efficiently as possible. in northern ireland we view waste as a valuable resource and by 2020 we will be recycling and composting nearly 50% of our household waste.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which encourages the commission to fully recognise the linkage of effective environmental legislation regarding historical heritage sites and the conservation and promotion of biodiversity – such as that contained in the water framework directive and the habitats and wild birds directives – with the eia and strategic environmental assessment directives and with legislation regarding the management of waste.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution as it supports two issues that are vitally important to wales. with the correct investment in efficient waste processing, we can provide opportunities for both employment and revenue enhancement while ensuring respect for the environment through reuse, recycling and recovery of energy from waste. in addition, i also support a common eu standard for colour-coding categories of waste for sorting and recycling. this should simplify the process, in the hope of making it easier for citizens to understand waste processing, and would help to increase recycling rates.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which points out that preventing and combating violence against women, children, and young people is still as pressing a concern today as it was in 1997, the year when the daphne initiative was adopted. since it was established, the programme has thrown light on new forms of violence, including violence at day nurseries, ill-treatment of the elderly and sexual assault among teenagers.
in writing. − this report is so important in making progress for women’s rights. at a time when national governments are cutting funding for women’s shelters in an attempt to create a ‘big society’ it is so important that the european parliament continues to pass progressive reports such as this one, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − this resolution has my full support as it highlights the very important issue of the elimination of violence against women, children and other vulnerable groups. the daphne funding programme has provided valuable financial assistance for a number of successful projects across europe. it is essential that, as the only european programme dedicated specifically to this issue, funding continues to be provided to allow the programme to go from strength to strength. i believe that, if the programme is integrated into the rights and citizenship programme from 2014, as the european commission proposes, the profile of the daphne programme will be significantly reduced. this would prove to be detrimental to the fight against violence against women and would undermine all the hard work that has been achieved so far.
in writing. − the ecr group is unified in its condemnation of violence against women and children. we are supportive of the aims and objectives of the daphne programme and are particularly keen to see it extend to areas such as preventing violence through online social networks (paragraph 10), honour killing and female genital mutilation (paragraph 13). the ecr group supports a strong position with regard to violence against women and we want to work collaboratively alongside national governments to make policies which will help eradicate violence against women. we voted against part 2 of paragraph 17 to show that we oppose further legislation at eu level which would interfere with member states’ own criminal justice systems – we do firmly believe that individual member states have overall responsibility for their own criminal legal systems.
in writing. − i firmly believe in the inclusion of more women in the prevention, mediation and resolution of conflicts and i welcome the fact that to this end, the rapporteur is calling on the eu and member states to include more women in the military, both in leadership positions and at ground level. it is crucial to have high-ranking women officials from a gender equality perspective but it is also very important to have women in civilian operations because they liaise better with the local women.
in writing. − along with the bastos report on the daphne programme (a7-0006/2012), i welcome this report which lays the foundations for greater protection of women in war, including a recommendation for a special eu representative on women’s peace and security.
in writing. − women who are raped or sexually abused by those in authority during times of war and conflict are subject to abuses to women that shall not be tolerated. i wholly support the aims and objectives of this report; i agree that there should be assistance and support for those women who have been abused and attacked; i also agree that there should be more women in peace-keeping operations in areas where conflict is occurring. i have always opposed eu interference in matters of national security and military matters and i am reluctant to see the eu spend more money on replicating envoy positions that already exist in one form or another and it is for that reason that i voted against paragraph 30 calling for the creation of a special eu representative on women within the eeas. overall, however, i believe that the focus of this report is on preventing and supporting women in times of war and i am pleased to be able to support this report.
in writing. − whilst the eu is in the middle of a grave economic crisis it is easy for issues in the developing world to fall off the agenda. the objective of universal energy access by 2030 is a worthy one and i support the aims of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which points out that the mdgs will not be achieved unless substantial progress is made on improving energy access, which requires an estimated annual investment of usd 48 billion by 2030, which is equivalent to around 3% of the global investment in energy infrastructure projected over the period to 2030 and would result in a modest increase in co2 emission of 0.7 % by 2030.
in writing. − i supported this report which explored avenues for universal energy access. i abstained on paragraph 37 as i felt i could not support the wording.
in writing. − this report highlights many of the tools that the eu can put in place to ensure that everyone has access to energy. the report builds on the un target of universal energy access by 2030, which will have a huge impact on the lives of millions of people in the developing world. access to energy will have a positive affect in achieving the millennium development goals and i fully support this report as it brings attention to this important debate. as the report states, i hope that the commission will now issue a communication on development cooperation in support of universal energy access.
in writing. − i welcome this report’s suggestions on how to prevent tax avoidance and tax abuse and how to increase tax transparency.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i do not believe that fiscal federalism will promote greater economic efficiency. while i supported the initial aims of the report, such as preventing double taxation, tax fraud and use of tax havens, the conclusions were too federalist. as an mep for london, the eu’s leading financial centre, it is my duty to protect national fiscal sovereignty so that the uk is able to provide a competitive business environment.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament urges the commission to link the extension of the temporary state aid to the banking sector beyond 2011 with enhanced and more stringent conditions related to the reduction of the balance sheet composition and size, including a proper focus on retail lending as well as stronger restrictions on bonuses, distribution of dividends and other crucial factors; it deems that these conditions should be explicit and should be assessed and summarised on an ex post basis by the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, ultimately every society is judged by how it treats its vulnerable and its old. we currently have approximately 3 million people who have no fixed abode in europe. i find that in my own member state, the united kingdom, hypothermia cases amongst the elderly have doubled in the last five years. such is the extent of the problem that it was no surprise to me today when i picked up a leading newspaper in the united kingdom and the headline was: ‘frozen to death as fuel bills soar’. some may argue that this is about homeless people. well, yes it is, but my argument is that, whilst we should have a strategy in order to deal with the homeless situation and those people affected by the severe weather who are homeless, we must, equally, have a measure in place to deal with those people who could find themselves in a situation of homelessness through not being able to afford a place to live, in view of the current pressures that they have financially. we are finding, right across the european union, that redundancies are rising and repossessions are rising. i have a figure of 233 homeless people dead within the last seven days. mr daul quotes a figure in excess of 600 over the past few weeks. this is a matter of real and great shame for all of us. commissioner barnier talks about the restricted role of this house. yes, it is right, we must firm up the role of our member states and we must ensure that there is coordination and sharing of best practice.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i start off by thanking mr masip hidalgo for the very comprehensive way in which he has dealt with this matter and the very cooperative fashion in which he has dealt with all colleagues who have been engaged with him. of all the briefs that i have been involved with since i have been in this parliament, by far the biggest challenge for me has been the whole intellectual property debate, and the biggest part of the challenge has been trying to keep up with the game, because by the time we have legislated and moved to where we feel we need to be at, the whole agenda seems to have moved on. therefore it is absolutely essential that we have a body like this in place that is able to advise us and give us guidance as to where we need to be moving next. along with that, politically, i believe there is a need, across this house and in the european union generally, to have a greater understanding of the value of ip rights and ensure that this is culturally and economically properly understood in europe, because we have a huge amount at stake. one only needs to look to see how, economically, we need to grow at this moment at time. where is that growth going to come from? well, a big part of our growth agenda can be fulfilled from the potentials that we have in innovation and what our thinkers right across the european union are doing in the creative industries. just to quote from one report, across the g20 nations, the internet economy amounted to 4.1% of gdp or usd 2.3 trillion in 2010. that is larger than the economies of italy or brazil. in other leading economies it contributed 8% of gdp, powering growth economically and creating jobs. by 2016 we expect there to be 3 billion internet users globally and the internet economy will reach usd 4.2 trillion in the g20 nations. we therefore need to make sure that we have the correct policy portfolio in place so that we are able to exploit this new and expanding market, and that the observatory is well placed to be able to assist us to do that. certainly, from my group’s perspective, we were at the forefront of ensuring that smes play their part in this and that their interests are protected fully as well.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this is essentially a commercial problem, and if action is needed, then it is a situation crying out to be addressed by the private sector acting in its own commercial interests, under the law. but instead we get this report, which has all the hallmarks of everything which is worst about the eu and the commission in particular, because it is going to be done using taxpayers’ money. i thought there was a crisis on. i thought we were living in a time of austerity necessitated by excessive government debt but, as ever, the taxpayer will be required to provide money that he or she can ill afford. the commission likes to pretend that this will not require any extra resources, but i am more likely to believe that a camel can pass through the eye of a needle. we are creating and extending a bureaucracy, and bureaucracies always set out to justify themselves by showing both the massive scale of the problem and the need for more complex solutions. you can see it in this report and in the proposed legislation. it states facts which can only be conjecture. it is telling that you cannot be precise, or even necessarily in the right ballpark, when assessing grey economic activity. i do not see any proof that this new extension of the office for harmonisation in the internal market will either save eur 10 billion or 185 000 jobs, yet that is the claim. to paraphrase mandy rice-davies, ‘they would say that, wouldn’t they?’ before i could back any of the proposals such as this, i would require some kind of guarantee that this would work and save the taxpayer money. i do not want to be unkind, but is it not nice for the office to be put in alicante? you would think that an office like this would be put in an established commercial centre or a place associated with innovation, entrepreneurship and growth, but it is placed on the costa blanca. it reminds me of the famous song ‘oh we do like to live beside the seaside, oh we do like to live beside the sea’ because – come on, let us get real – we are once again seeing taxpayers’ money being thrown at ‘jobs for the boys’ corporatism. where is the evidence for european consumers and taxpayers that they will be better off? that would be a real impact assessment, not the usual commission approach of assuming what it seeks to prove. what we have here is the usual manifestation of the commission’s proposals, because it will be a wolf in sheep’s clothing. it will never, ever, be brought in at a saving to the taxpayer. it will become eventually, as all these things always do, another bureaucratic monster. it is no more than a proto-agency right now but, as ever, it will grow and it will grow. i predict that, sitting there by the costa brava beach, the office and its lucky bureaucrats will become bloated on sun, sangria and paella.
blue-card question. – mr president, ms thein has been most gracious in her comments. ms thein, you made reference to a british colleague and i wonder if you would agree with me, based upon what he said, that he quite clearly has no idea what he is talking about. he has attended here today with a prepared script, has not once attended the committee, has not once made a single statement in committee and has not moved a single amendment by either himself or anybody in his delegation or in his group. he certainly does not speak for the british position on this. i hope you will agree with me when i say that.
mr president, today we are discussing the european observatory, which will help to provide independent data and facilitate the exchange of good practice in the very real area of counterfeiting and piracy. firstly, i am glad to see that the initial proposal from the commission has undergone a number of changes within parliament and the council, especially when it comes to the governance model. the member states forming part of the administrative board are important to the governance structure and their oversight is legitimising the work, as the office should be policy-informing instead of policy-leading. i welcome the european observatory, as there has been a lack of independent data and harmonised activity across the eu in the area of counterfeiting and piracy. the collection of data in this area will be increasingly important as a source of evidence to inform the debate on copyright infringement and ipr abuse. however, we do not want to see a duplication of effort in protecting ipr. the office should be taking into account the existing information obligations on member states relating to intellectual property infringements. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i have been following the opinion on this report, which i also finally supported. the committee on culture’s opinion called for more recognition of the cultural dimension of ipr, and stressed the importance of people from the cultural and creative sectors participating in meetings of the observatory. i have submitted amendments that will allow the observatory to focus on all types of ipr infringements. another important issue is to have the office support the activities of national authorities as well as private industry, but it should provide observations, not strict recommendations to member states. i am indeed relieved that we, in these difficult financial times, are able to save the taxpayers money by efficient use of financial and human resources and at no cost to the eu budget. with the governance model in the final proposal being much more satisfactory, and the description of the tasks and responsibilities of the observatory now being more concrete, i am now happy to vote in favour of the final report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 14 february 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by kurt lechner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 89/666/eec, 2005/56/ec and 2009/101/ec as regards the interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers (com(2011)0079 – c7-0059/2011 – 2011/0038(cod)) (a7-0022/2012).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my colleague mr lechner has held some very weighty briefs in committee and he has once again done justice to the efforts that were required from him. i thank him for his approach. this is of course one of the proposals in the single market act communication which outlines 50 proposals to strengthen the internal market. it addresses an obvious missing link in the sharing of company information which will reduce administrative burdens for those seeking information across borders. it is actually estimated that it will save more than eur 69 million per year. at eu level we are seeking to reach out, under our growth strategy, by means of free trade agreements. it is important that, whilst we do that, we also look internally and encourage companies to expand beyond their national borders and to operate across the single market. the legal certainty and increased transparency that comes from the sharing of information in this way will help them conduct their business in a more streamlined way, once again linking into our growth-focused strategy. i have to say that this does not apply to all the initiatives coming from the commission. certainly the misguided contract sales law proposals are deeply unhelpful and unwanted. the interconnection of registers, rather than a centralised approach, makes this much more efficient as companies will not need to supply information on multiple occasions or go beyond existing requirements to provide information. i strongly encourage the commission to come forward with other such genuinely growth-focused measures rather than – as i said before – unhelpful and unwanted instruments like the proposed sales law. our smes and other businesses and companies are crying out for a growth strategy at eu level, and in these strained times we are duty bound to deliver on that. navel gazing is not the answer. we have to be brave, and we have to look outwards and reach out on their behalf.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 14 february 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by sari essayah, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euros and amending regulation (ec) no 924/2009 (com(2010)0775 – c7-0434/2010 – 2010/0373(cod)) (a7-0292/2011).
in writing. – youth unemployment is exacerbated by inward migration absorbing jobs from the bottom up. uk youth unemployment stands at 22.3%. it increased from 575 000 in 2004 to 1 016 000 in 2011, a rise of 450 000, while over the same period 600 000 eu migrants entered the uk. the commission wants to allocate €82 billion unspent structural funds to youth unemployment –money corresponding to as yet unused budgets earmarked for programmes that depend upon funding – shifting resources without an impact assessment or guaranteed results. unemployment is a fluid entity relying upon job creation. job creation relies upon private sector growth. private sector growth needs inward investment, trade opportunities and production flexibility: all are stifled by eu bureaucracy and marred by trading partners’ economic uncertainty. the commission wants to divert funding from programmes construed to boost local economies towards training without guaranteed employment at the end. whilst i support stimulating the labour market through skills development, the best way to mitigate youth unemployment is to ascribe localised investment to the labour market as a whole, rather than reducing investment flexibility through targeted policy making. job creation requires dynamic development member states are best equipped to deal with autocratically, via idiosyncratic programmes catering for particular portfolios of industries and demographic patterns.
madam president, i speak on behalf of the many individuals in this house on the continuing and increasingly grave threats to freedom of expression in russia. we have recently seen the introduction of a new law which bans the so-called ‘promotion of homosexuality’. its starting point is that homosexuality is wrong. however, i would maintain that what is wrong is the promotion of intolerance and discrimination – precisely what these repressive laws set out to achieve. these laws have already been adopted in the russian states of arkhangelsk, ryazan and kostroma. now they are being introduced in st petersburg and moscow. the federal parliament is also considering doing exactly the same. some say that people are not affected by this, but three activists have already been fined under these laws. but what does ‘promotion of homosexuality’ mean? it is wide enough to censor anyone who dares speak for those who have no voice, and that is why the eu should make the highest possible representation to russia to speak out in defence of these fundamental human rights.
madam president, this house is aware of the many injustices which persist in the turkish-occupied part of cyprus. what members may not know is that the northern part of cyprus, the turkish-occupied part, is the last place in europe where it is a criminal offence to be homosexual. recent reports suggest that two men have been arrested for what is described as ‘sexual intercourse against the order of nature’. it is not a crime to be gay anywhere else in europe. it is not a crime to be gay in turkey. no one should be persecuted or victimised for their sexual orientation. i met with the leader of the turkish cypriot community and i called on him to repeal the statute. he has promised, both in person and in writing, to do so. now he must match his words with deeds and put an end to this outdated law.
madam president, i have had hundreds of e-mails from my constituents on the subject of acta, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. acta intends to take alleged infringements of copyright, patents and trademarking from the jurisdiction of civil law to criminal law. intellectual property rights have to be protected but acta, like so much legislation that comes from this place, favours the interest of big business over small business and individuals. if this comes under criminal law, the great danger is that alleged transgressors could be extradited on european arrest warrants to the four corners of the european union to face months or years in prison. i and my colleagues in the uk independence party are once again the voice of the people in this place. uk independence party meps oppose acta and we will vote against it when the time comes. we urge all meps to do the same.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am sorry that some members have still not understood the concept that if there were no fish there would be no jobs for fishermen. this debate is important because it sets a precedent for the future, for the setting of long-term management plans – which has been recognised as crucial to the whole reform of the common fisheries policy – and showing that we have sustainable fish for the future. the minister has referred to article 43(3) of the treaty, which says that the council should adopt measures on fixing quantitative limitations and the allocation of fishing opportunities, but article 43(2) says that the european parliament, in partnership with the council, shall establish the provisions necessary for the pursuit of the obligations of the common fisheries policy. clearly there is a dispute and a lack of clarity here. whatever other disputes there may be amongst members of this parliament, i suspect we will mostly be united on standing up for the position of parliament as we see it in the treaty. it is not as though the council has a very good record to defend. we know that its application of article 43(3) has been abysmal, involving annual meetings which are notorious even amongst former fisheries ministers. these are gladiatorial contests where ministers come to stand up for national interests, over-fishing and setting limits. according to the university of york’s latest estimates, over the past few years these have exceeded best scientific advice by 33%, with the result that we have seen too much over-fishing and a decline in fish stocks across the european union. looking to the future, we all recognise that long-term management plans are key. i think it is important that we also recognise the urgency of this. if we are to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015, we have got to get the reformed fishing regulation through as quickly as possible, and the commission is going to have to come forward with long-term management plans in rapid succession, which must clear the parliamentary process in rapid succession. we have to keep delays to a minimum, so this matter must be resolved. i welcome the fact that the danish presidency has this high on its agenda and i thoroughly support the commissioner in what she is saying, which is: let us go for a second reading, let us have our debate, let us make absolutely clear what are the lines of difference between the council and the commission, and then let us negotiate. this will be resolved by negotiation between the two institutions. the sooner we do that, the sooner we can put in place the measures necessary to ensure that we have healthy fish stocks for the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am sure that the focus of the world today is not on the western stock of atlantic horse mackerel. however, it has become iconic in terms of the log-jam that has developed between this house and the council. i absolutely agree with the interpretation that commissioner damanaki has placed on this. we are in accord between parliament and the commission on the correct legal basis and our approach to this particular resolution, but this has been jammed now for over three years. since the introduction of the lisbon treaty we have had no movement at all from the council, and chris davies is absolutely right in saying we are looking to the danish presidency to sort this out. we need multi-annual plans for a future sustainable fishery in european waters, so horse mackerel has to be sorted out: break the log-jam and then let us get ahead with a proper way of working between the three eu institutions.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the report released by the court of auditors last week laid bare the failings of the common fisheries policy. eur 1.7 billion has been wasted since 2002 in vessel decommissioning, which has failed to demonstrate any tangible result as the cfp cannot specify where overcapacity exists. instead, 90% of stocks are now overfished – 30% beyond safe biological levels. on top of that, 100 000 jobs have been lost. the prince of wales’ think-tank, the international sustainability unit, specifies that there is no one-size-fits-all solution to the problem. management of stocks must be dynamic and localised. devolving control of waters to local level would create an incentive for fishermen to maintain resources in the long term, as they would directly profit from the proliferation of their own stock. the british fleet is permitted to catch only one-fifth of the fish in uk waters. the sense of husbandry was lost when eu waters were carved up to serve a range of foreign vessels. short-term profit is the only focus for a boat that has travelled far from its own coastline to fish. the report also highlights the importance of managing the marine ecosystem as a whole, rather than targeting individual species, which can have a knock-on effect on other stocks. only through locally managed real-time area closures can we rebuild an ecologically sound, profitable fishing industry. through restoring the uk share of fish stocks alone, the industry could also employ 46% more people and make an extra gbp 400 million – equivalent to 24 times the uk annual subsidy. subsidies artificially reduce the cost of fishing, allowing it to continue beyond the point of profitability. norway and iceland are leading examples of successful redirection of subsidies and management of stocks. they, of course, are not in the eu. in iceland, spawning rates have doubled. i am sure that if everyone appealed to common sense and examined the commission’s track record they would agree that the best way of protecting the ocean for future generations and safeguarding national fishing industries is to take control out of the hands of the european union.
mr president, over the past two years the pelagic regional advisory council and others have exuded a great deal of energy in the development of a multiannual plan for the western stock of horse mackerel. they are understandably upset that their efforts are being frustrated by a failure to implement the plan, a situation which is being blamed by some on the ongoing game of ping-pong between the eu’s institutions, namely this parliament and the council. the development of long-term management plans is the way forward for europe’s commercial fisheries. the absence of such a plan was one of the reasons given for the imposition of a 10 % cut in irish sea herring for 2012, although i must say that this was also a moveable argument over the course of these negotiations in the weeks and months before it. however, this plan is now being fast-tracked. i hope that the positive, scientific assessment on irish sea herring, together with the advice contained in the plan, will be reflected in a mid-year decision to increase the tac to a level reflecting the current state of the stock.
mr president, over the lifetime of the cfp the commission and the council have gathered ever more powers to themselves. they have extended the remit of the december council far beyond deciding upon fishing opportunities. now the commission and council are taking a restrictive approach in interpreting the lisbon treaty to allow themselves to continue with these centralised powers and, worse, to claim that the treaty prevents a radical approach to decentralisation. my constituents in the fishing nation of scotland will not be impressed if cfp reform does not sweep away the failed practices which have so discredited the european union’s role in fisheries management. if environmental and social sustainability is to be achieved, i think that decentralisation has to be at the top of the agenda and that returning real management power to fishing nations would ensure that those with most to gain from successful conservation would have, for the first time, the incentive to make it happen.
mr president, the best conservation measure would be for the uk to withdraw from the eu and regain exclusive control of our fishing grounds. overfishing is the direct result of access to our waters by other member states. our default position is opposition to any common fisheries policy. however, it would be churlish not to recognise the improvements that some of the proposals would bring. the end to the discard policy is welcome but long overdue. the return of unwanted fish that are likely to survive, the counting of other unintentionally caught adult fish towards quotas, and the selling of accidentally caught undersize fish for pet food and fishmeal are all reasonable proposals within the context of the common fisheries policy. but why has it taken so long for the eu to address the obscene discard policy? we are told that the policy will end in 2016. will it really? and why has it been so long in coming? for as long as we remain in the eu, the total allowable catch figures and the number of days at sea allocated to the uk must reflect the fact that we provide a massively disproportionate amount of the total fishing grounds and the stock of fish. when it comes to community aid to the fishery sector, our fishermen, such as those in whitby, hull and grimsby, do not receive fair treatment. our fishing sector gets only 3% of the aid, whereas spain gets 26%, and poland 17%. our tonnage is just under half that of spain, and our total catch is about three quarters. even romania, whose main catch is goldfish, gets more aid than the uk.
mr president, mr mato’s question to the council and the commission quite rightly asks why the institutions are adopting year-on-year measures on tax and quotas as well as technical measures concerning restricted zones and depths. this is clearly a very broad interpretation of the legal basis for decisions which should only concern the ‘fixing’ and allocation of fishing opportunities. parliament has been excluded from the negotiations on these issues; this is clearly contrary to the spirit of the lisbon treaty. as we enter into a period of fisheries reform the council and commission will have to adopt a more constructive approach and attitude to parliament. in my own region the outcome of the recent fisheries council in december 2011 meant a 25% cut in the cod quota in the irish sea, among other cuts in stocks such as for herring. these developments will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the industry. the common fisheries policy must go down the road to regionalisation. the current micro-management of our waters is having a devastating effect on our fisheries industry. brussels must realise one suit does not fit everyone and get on with the job and get the problem solved. that is the message the council has to take away from here this morning.
the next item is question time to the commission. the topic for question time is the services sector, the services directive and increasing competitiveness, growth and employment in europe. i shall just remind you that each member has one minute to put his or her question and 30 seconds for a supplementary. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering. if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute’s speaking time.
mr president, the opportunity to pose questions on the services directive is very welcome. i and members of my committee are deeply engaged in following through the transposition. i want to thank the commissioner for his energy in pursuing this. my question, however, is not so much related to the actual legal requirement on member states to transpose the directive. my observation, based on visits to a number of countries and on talking both to governments and to business organisations, is that we have absolutely encouraged member states to make a substantial investment in providing services – the points of single contact – with a view to opening up their markets to service providers from other countries, and also to support and train all their public authorities in accepting applications from other countries for the provision of services. but my experience is that most businesses who can potentially take advantage of this know nothing about it at all, because the one thing member states have neglected is any promotion of these great new opportunities. i would like the commissioner’s reassurance, with regard to the benchmarking exercise, that we will actually have some real information on the ground about businesses’ awareness of the opportunities that have been created. otherwise it is simply like saying to member states that they should invest heavily in this great new product and new idea, but that they should not tell anyone about it. how is that a sensible strategy?
mr president, while i am impressed, as always, by the energy behind the commissioner’s words – and commissioner barnier and i work very closely together – i still do not think that he got to the heart of my question. when i go round talking to businesses, i have to tell them about the eugo portal. i have to give them the excellent brochure that the commission has produced because, actually, my own government is not doing very much, and i have said so to the secretary of state. how are we going to reach governments and their small-enterprise divisions – and mr tajani is absolutely involved in this as our lead on smes – to tell them about these sources of information and how they can deploy them? the problem is that we have done all this great stuff but the people who are really going to energise the economy by investing and trading across borders, it seems to me, will not be sufficiently excited and energised to take advantage of it.
colleagues, before we go on i am going to bring this question time to a close at 11.55 so that we can prepare for the votes. can i remind colleagues that it is one minute for a question and 30 seconds for a supplementary. for the commission, if it is one commissioner replying it is two minutes and if there is more than one commissioner it is one minute each. i am afraid to say that there are more than 50 people who want the floor. last time we got through 17 questions, so there are going to be a lot of disappointed people and i apologise in advance. the intention of this new format is to make it a little more lively, but it does mean a lot of disappointment.
we are learning as we go along, but as it happens you are next on the list after mr van de camp. promise!
i will deal with mr van de camp’s supplementary and then i will come back to that point.
i am now going to reply to mr løkkegaard. the authorities are conducting a review of this new process of question time and that will be available after this session. i have in the past, at this stage, read out the names i have on my list of those who are likely to be called, and i am happy to do that by way of helping. where i come from, question time is a question of catch the eye – genuinely catch the eye – but i realise that we have different procedures here. on my list – and these are grouped according to groups but as they have been identified by staff – from the epp i still have mr baldassarre, ms mazzoni and ms corazza bildt. from the socialist group – and these are the ones who are likely to be called if we are quick – ms gebhardt, mr cercas and ms rapti. from the alde group: mr aylward, ms jäätteenmäki and mr løkkegaard. mr karim from the ecr, ms schroedter from the greens and ms morganti from the efd. those are the names who are likely to get called if we are quick.
that concludes question time. i apologise to those who were not called, especially those in the epp. there were 19 questions from the epp. five questions were finally taken, four from the socialists, three from the alde, so a proportionate response. one from the efd, one from the ecr. thank you all very much indeed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
colleagues, mr helmer has a point of order.
mr president, the first intervention ever made in this house by an elected member was by the reverend dr ian paisley in 1979, who drew attention to the fact that the british flag was flying upside down. the first intervention i ever made in this house 20 years on, in 1999, was to draw attention to the fact that the british flag was flying upside down. this morning i entered the parliament at about 7 a.m. and, guess what? the british flag was again flying upside down. i note that this has now been corrected, but can you please assure me that this will not occur again. after 33 years we should by now have learned which way up to hang the british flag.
it is a failing on the part of the french, i am afraid.
mr president, i just wanted to add to what mr helmer said. mr helmer is well aware that flying the union flag upside down is a signal of distress, so it is entirely appropriate that it should be flown upside down in this place. i would recommend that we fly it that way permanently. (laughter)
on the point raised by mr tudor, this was apparently on the agenda on monday and was dealt with then, but thank you for the suggestion.
the written declaration submitted by ms geringer de oedenberg, willy meyer, mr tremopoulos, ms wikström and mr zasada on the return of the sealed-off section of famagusta to its lawful inhabitants has been signed by a majority of parliament’s component members.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr swoboda, apparently the mandate of the current auditor is expiring this month and therefore the proposal is in order, so i am advised. (that concludes the vote)
mr president, safeguarding intellectual property rights is an essential tenet in a developed country which encourages businesses to invest in the eu to maximise their innovative capabilities. there is little reward in investing in high-quality research in a region when there is little or no enforcement of these intellectual property rights. although i am still to be convinced of the need for a new eu institution to be tasked with data collection and exchange of good practice, i am prepared to support this initiative so long as it will provide a robust and efficient method to deal with infringements of intellectual property rights in the internal market. this seems a necessary move by the eu to ensure that intellectual property rights are well protected and that best practice for the enforcement and harmonising of these intellectual property rights is delivered for businesses operating in the eu as a whole.
mr president, i am glad that this parliament has gone back on the path it took last december when it insisted on voting for the candidate proposed by the previous spanish socialist government just before the general elections in spain, which gave the popular party an absolute majority. it was a mistake to vote - and the elections have already been held - on a candidate who we knew was no longer supported by the spanish government. we hope that the court of auditors, in concert with the council and this parliament, will be able to carry out its work with the efficiency that these times of crisis now demand more than ever.
i apologise, mr president, but unfortunately the names were not being flashed up and i did actually ask to speak on this matter. i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the report on the office for harmonisation in the internal market. we believe that the formal establishment of a european observatory for infringements of intellectual property rights is an important step towards fighting counterfeiting and piracy. this observatory will also promote the sharing of good practices in many areas and will be able to collect a wide pool of data. we believe that this will be a useful source of evidence in the debate on copyright infringement and on intellectual property rights more generally, particularly as certifiably impartial data in this area are currently very hard to come by with the existing set of regulations.
mr president, today i am happy to support giving legal effect to a european observatory to assist with combating the infringement of intellectual property rights (ipr). the observatory will be effective in dealing with infringement because until now there has been a severe shortage of information for tackling counterfeiting and piracy. it also brings harmonisation across member states, meaning that the eu can become a more effective machine when it comes to ipr and infringement. it is, however, important that the office for harmonisation in the internal market can work closely with the member states, as well as private industry and the commission, to tackle infringement. without such cooperation, duplication could potentially harm progress, and in a supportive role a european observatory can help bring real value to iprs. we can also save the eu budget, and indeed taxpayers, some much-needed money in these difficult financial times by entrusting the office of harmonisation with this very important task. i have also called for a focus, not just on counterfeiting and piracy, but also on other types of infringement. i welcome this vote today.
mr president, this report on interconnection of central, commercial and companies’ registers seems to incorporate the primary aims of the single market. the existing system of having separate national regional business registers has proved quite cumbersome over the years and has often seen a great variance in the type and quality of data being stored. this can make it difficult to interpret for businesses hoping to engage in cross-border trades as data cannot always be relied upon. the proposal to create a single eu register for businesses to provide a platform where companies themselves can access information on other eu companies – thus facilitating cross-border trade – is one that i can support. it could potentially save time and money for european businesses as trading partner information would be accessible in a more efficient and timely manner. importantly, this proposal needs to ensure no additional burden of red tape is placed on our companies whilst facilitating the overarching objective of completing the single market.
mr president, i too voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the report on the interconnection of central, commercial and companies’ registers. as a group we are fully in favour of all measures which can be put in place to simplify trading, particularly those that, in so doing, serve to increase economic activity across the single market. we believe that, once implemented, the proposals put forward in the report will have this effect. we believe that these measures should be put in place as an important network to help businesses which are seeking to trade across eu borders. the current system – which is predominantly one of national and regional registers only – makes it difficult to search for information about companies in parts of europe outside one’s own member state. this proposal seeks to link national and regional registers to form an international eu database, and we fully support such a move.
mr president, i voted along with my group, the ecr, in favour of the report on technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euros. the development of the single euro payments area has as its principal aim the integration of payments across the whole of the european union, and this includes the uk. these developments do not just affect the euro zone, as i have said, and we believe that this will bring benefits to consumers, businesses and banks, including for my country, which is outside of the eurozone and will remain outside of the eurozone. much of the system is already operational and works well so far. the latest developments will in theory make the country in which a bank account is held immaterial in future and so ultimately will mean that there can be a great deal more competition between banks and businesses throughout the european union. we are therefore in favour of such a move although, of course, the united kingdom will remain outside of the eurozone. ***
i have a point of information concerning the point of order raised by mr helmer, which is that the british flag should be flown with the thick white stripe uppermost near the flagpole. ***
in writing. − i voted against this report, as i believe that in a time of economic hardship and spreading financial crisis we can ill afford another unnecessary eu institution. the office for harmonisation in the internal market will be another bureaucracy-generating institution that will likely place a stranglehold on innovation and growth by undermining domestic capabilities in the area of intellectual rights, trademarks and design laws with restrictive european legislation. i do not agree that current uk law governing intellectual property should be usurped by a european model. what will result will be confusion as international intellectual property law, wipo and its related competences, as well as national provisions are pitted against an influx of eu legislation that is simply not needed.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s proposal to entrust the office for harmonisation in the internal market with the tasks of the observatory, with a view to improved implementation of the responsibilities assigned to it. in the context of a continuing growth of trade in counterfeit and pirated goods – reducing the incentive for eu enterprises to innovate, and often resulting in job reductions – it seems appropriate to strengthen a coordinated policy in this regard. moreover, counterfeiting of certain categories of product (such as medicines, toys, automotive components, household equipment, etc.) threatens human health and leads to a considerable decline in consumer protection. therefore i consider it justified to inform the public and raise awareness about the possible dangers and consequences of the exponential increase in counterfeiting and piracy observed in recent years.
in writing. − the formal establishment of the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights should help provide independent data and facilitate the exchange of good practice in the area of counterfeiting and piracy. one of the main disputes over intellectual property rights abuse is the impartiality of data. by voting in favour of this report i hope the establishment of the observatory will be able to act as an independent source that is accepted by all sides.
in writing. − i decided to vote against this report as the ambition of eu level interconnection is but a preparatory stage for the introduction of new eu harmonised legislation. bearing in mind examples of the previous introduction of interconnectivity, i cannot agree to support the document, which can, and most likely will, lead to creation of an eu wide business register that will replace national registers.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the interconnection of business registers is a significant measure that will foster further integration of the economic area within the eu and improve legal certainty for businesses and citizens. business registers are kept at national and regional level. they vary in many respects, de jure and de facto, for example with regard to their legal significance and the reliability of the data recorded in them. with the increase in cross-border economic activity, enhanced interconnection of business registers is necessary for reasons of legal certainty and transparency. it will also save money and time. only through such interconnection will the full potential inherent in maintaining computerised registers be exploited. the broad lines of the commission proposal, which is confined to the essential aspects, should be approved. the aim of the directive is a purely technical interconnection between the existing national registers, and not a harmonisation of their legal consequences. it regulates the exchange of information between registers and does not establish a separate business register with its own data. it creates a platform for improving and speeding up communication and retrieval of information by citizens and businesses.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe it will help businesses. the proposal builds on the current system by providing the technical framework necessary for a proper exchange of information. the interconnection of central, commercial and company registers will improve accessibility of information for businesses looking to trade cross-border. my constituency of london is home to many hundreds of businesses and i support any measures that will simplify and increase trading within the single market.
in writing. − i voted against this measure, as i fear european involvement in the fisheries sector of guinea-bissau. guinea-bissau is one of the least developed economies in the world. one third of gdp comes directly from foreign aid. while i support the notion of aiding guinea-bissau to develop self-sufficiency across the maritime and agrarian sectors, the eu has no track history of having a beneficial presence in third-country waters. on the whole, foreign eu vessels pillage the fish stocks of third countries in return for financial hand-outs which result in long-term lasting damage to the fisheries sector, destroying entire subsistence communities. it is hardly surprising that the contract allows for no fewer than 20 spanish vessels to operate within the area. i am disgusted that the european union would seek to take advantage of fish stocks in such a deprived country due to the eu’s own dwindling reserves as a result of over-fishing, and operate under the guise of development assistance. instead member states should be individually seeking to help guinea-bissau develop their maritime industry to enable them to trade independently with the wider world at a fair market price, not paying for our own vessels to trawl their waters dry.
in writing. − from the information provided it appears that it is in the interest of both parties to conclude a new protocol between guinea bissau and the european union. for this reason i supported it.
in writing. − i am pleased to have voted for this consent as it means another year of british vessels being able to access territorial waters off guinea-bissau. this has no negative impact on guinea-bissau as eu catches account for less than 2% of any species’ annual catch. similarly the eur 7.5 million given for fisheries support is good for the sustainability of the sector. the extension retains the same provisions as the previous agreement and will hopefully give enough time for current negotiations regarding a new four-year agreement to be concluded.
in writing. − i voted against this, as i believe it should be the prerogative of member states to establish unique bilateral contracts with third countries. although the strategic importance of morocco in north africa, given the recent uprisings of the arab spring, cannot be denied, cooperation involves the corroboration of an eu arm of foreign policy which, again, i deem to be unaccountable, as i hold the opinion that only domestic governments should have sovereignty over the foreign relations of member states.
in writing. − with the profound changes taking place in the southern mediterranean since the tunisian revolution and subsequent events in neighbouring countries, it is important that the eu supports the aspirations of people in these countries even more, now that these aspirations are shared by their leaders. the kingdom of morocco committed itself to a global process of political, economic and social reform several years ago and the eu has constantly supported morocco in its efforts to implement its reform programme. the advanced status reflects a common desire to support a process of home-grown reform, accompanied by a structured and frank dialogue in which human rights is one vital element. this dialogue needs to be continued and intensified through the eu-morocco summits, the association councils and the subcommittee on human rights.
in writing. − it is important that this legislation is enacted quickly to allow member states the option to use the bluetongue vaccine when necessary to prevent infection or reduce the threat to other animals before the midge population become active and can carry/spread infection across the eu. the vaccine should only be used when the competent authority identifies significant risk to the livestock population. it is important that the commission continues to monitor bluetongue outbreaks but also to direct attention to the recent outbreak of the schmallenberg virus and invest time and money to find a solution for this devastating virus.
in writing. − i supported the agreement on the proposed changes to the bluetongue directive so as to allow livestock farmers to vaccinate against bluetongue beyond areas subject to animal movement restrictions on 14 february 2012. i believe this will provide greater flexibility to develop national strategies on the prevention and control of diseases, without placing an additional burden on both farmers and national administrations. although the uk is not part of the bluetongue zone anymore, i am glad that this proposal allows farmers to protect their livestock from the risk of disease in the future by vaccinating preventively if they wish to do so. i welcome the fact that this vote has taken place on time, so as to ensure that vaccination campaigns can get under way this year before the bluetongue season starts.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on vaccination against bluetongue.
in writing. − i voted against the proposal of this legislative resolution on the technical requirement for credit transfers and direct debits in euro. although it seems at first sight to be a technical measure to harmonise electronic banking systems in the euro area, the aim of this report is to force banks to use new methods of financial transfer and create an obligation to stick with those methods laid out by the eu. as such, the ‘idée fixe’ of this report is to force banks to make their systems compliant within the single european payment area (sepa) in order to strengthen the credibility of the euro. whilst i concur that bank transfers should be safe and certain technical requirements should be introduced, in my opinion the authoritarian decision of the commission is not the most effective and steadfast way.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the commission published its proposal for this regulation on 16 december 2010. the proposal aims at establishing an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area or sepa) in which there is no difference of regime between cross-border and national payments. integrating european payment markets should offer substantial economic benefits by increasing competition and innovation, contributing to lower payment costs for consumers and firms and making cross-border payments as easy as domestic ones. the impact assessment notes that possible benefits to the european economy could amount to eur 100-300 billion in six years’ time.
in writing. − if we are to have a strong single market that fosters jobs and growth it stands to reason that we need a simple and efficient payments system. if a company in london wishes to purchase materials from a latvian supplier, the company should be able to make a payment quickly and easily irrespective of the fact that both countries are outside the euro area. i believe that this report makes positive recommendations to improve the single european payment area (sepa) and gives banks a sufficiently long period of grace to make their systems compliant.
in writing. − i voted against the council’s nomination of baudilio tomé muguruza as a member of the court of auditors.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i take the opportunity of welcoming the debate and congratulating mr siekierski on his report, but i have to say i consider that this report looks backwards and not forwards. it harks back to the day when europe had milk lakes and butter mountains. the good thing is, however, that those, thankfully, have all gone. in my opinion, what we are discussing today is a social policy and not an agricultural policy. while i have every sympathy with deprived people, the homeless etc., i have to say there must be a better way of addressing this particular issue. to buy the food and distribute it will be very expensive so, as i have said, there must be a better way. i think this is where the commission needs to consider what it should do in the future. i know that some countries currently have many problems with bad weather, snow and everything else, and there will always be people needing help and support. but this is not the way to provide that support.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, a programme was introduced to cut intervention stocks; it succeeds, but does the programme stop? no, of course not. for the commission nothing can ever stop. not only that, they act illegally. to quote the danish parliament, the legal basis cited by the commission is incorrect. incoherence partners illegality, and while this report refers to people not having enough food, plans to reform the cap propose measures which will cut food production in some of europe’s best farmland. only the commission could make me feel sorry for french farmers. like east anglia, my region, the paris basin is intensively farmed and very highly productive, but in future they, like us, must produce less. it is called creating ecological focus areas: 7% comes out of farming. the commission claims that this will cool the world’s weather. the intergovernmental panel on climate change forecasts warming of an average of 0.2°c per decade. according to the last figures i heard, we had not actually warmed at all in the 2000s! this weekend i recorded the lowest temperature on my farm since 1986. commission policies are illegal, incoherent and apparently stupid all at the same time. when will common sense prevail?
mr president, as others have stated in this debate, this programme arose at a time when food mountains and milk lakes were the norm. thankfully that is now history. it is my opinion that we need to take account of the change in circumstances and recognise that this programme belongs to social policy and not the common agricultural policy. i believe that the move proposed by the commission in the post-2014 mff, to move the programme through to social policy and deliver it in that way, is the correct longer-term solution. however, the situation we face today concerning next year’s budget for the programme is unsustainable. i will support the compromise found between the institutions at the vote tomorrow. if we do not accept this temporary deal the risk is clear: money available to charities in 20 member states will drop from eur 500 million to eur 113 million next year, leaving over 18 million poor and in need. that cannot be allowed to happen in 21st century europe, especially at this time of crisis. therefore i would urge colleagues to support the temporary solution at tomorrow’s vote. however, it is important to stress that this deal can in no way serve as the foundation for the future of the programme beyond 2013. tomorrow we are only voting on a transitional solution to unlock the short-term deadlock. it is not a long-term solution. we will have to find a proper, agreed, solid basis for the long-term future of this programme. i reiterate my call for it to be transferred to social policy for future delivery.
blue-card answer to marc tarabella. – just to clarify for mr tarabella, i would prefer it to be moved back to member states’ responsibility, but i recognise that this is not going to be the case. therefore i support the commission’s proposals that we maybe deliver it at a european level but through the legal basis of social policy and not through the common agricultural policy.
mr president, the availability of food for everybody is undoubtedly an important thing in any civilised society. i have no difficulty at all with that. my difficulty with this proposal lies in its assumption that creating a eur 500 million programme centrally is an adequate or efficient response to hunger. i believe that measures of this type should be delivered by individual member states in ways which are administratively efficient. the continuation of such a programme for 25 years is not evidence of its success, but evidence of the development of the dependence culture that should be broken. by the continuation of this scheme under the guise of solidarity we do nothing to encourage an efficient and productive food industry in europe. aid in kind is contentious across the world and i seen no reason why it should go unchallenged here in europe.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am very pleased that we were able to reach agreement on the dairy package with the council and commission in december. in this regard i must thank my shadow rapporteurs for all the very hard work that they put in. we started off with – i think i can safely say – some very divergent views and positions, so it is a testament to their commitment that we found solutions to our differences and ways to incorporate each other’s point of view. i must also thank the council and the commission, who at all stages of the process adopted a very constructive approach towards parliament. this cooperation was what allowed us to achieve a deal at the end of the day. i was determined to get a deal on the dairy package agreed before we entered into the cap reform and i am very pleased that we have achieved that. i would also just like to pay my own special thanks to those involved in the polish presidency for their hard work through the weeks and the months that we were working on this. the dairy package was, to a large extent, a dry run for parliament’s engagement in the cap reform. it definitely gave us some insight as to how the process will evolve. although of course the reform will be on a much larger scale, we must bear this in mind, and i think we all gained some valuable experience in terms of how we should go about finding our internal position within parliament and also how best to negotiate with the other institutions. it is my belief that, in order for parliament to influence the reform of the cap to the maximum effect, we should learn from our experiences in working with this dossier. so what does the dairy package contain and how will it impact on our milk producers? that is the question which everyone is, of course, very keen to know the answer to. from the outset i would say that this legislation will not solve all the problems of europe’s dairy sector, but i do hope that the measures contained within it will primarily help to strengthen the bargaining power of dairy farmers. the establishment of the eu-recognised producer organisations and the interbranch organisations for the sector is a step forward. producer organisations will be able to negotiate milk volumes of up to 33 % of the national production. this is, i believe, a good balance between boosting their negotiating power and protecting against distorting competition. producer organisations should help farmers to organise themselves better and strengthen their position in the supply chain, especially in member states where a system of cooperatives is limited or non-existent. the package also includes provisions for eu contracts to be implemented at member state level. some countries may choose to go down this route while others will not. this is likely to depend on the characteristics and the situation of each individual country’s dairy market, whether they are a co-op system or export-driven. the decision to impose contracts will be voluntary, which will give member states the flexibility to choose what suits them best. if a member state decides to impose contracts, those contracts must respect the conditions laid down by the regulation. these include the condition that the price, the volume of milk to be delivered and the duration of the contract are outlined in the contract. one of the main points parliament has achieved is in the article which allows for the regulation of milk supply for production or for pdo and pgi cheeses. we worked hard on this to achieve a balance between supporting quality production and making sure that we did not interfere with competition law or the functioning of the internal market. i am sure that my southern counterparts will have more to say on this issue and will outline how it will particularly help milk producers in their countries, which are those member states which have high levels of quality production. i would like to conclude by saying that i think we have ended up with a package of measures which are flexible. although milk is produced in every eu member state, each country has very different needs. there are member states that would like to see quotas being retained past 2015, while others look forward to increasing production. however, no matter what the focus of the industry, we have a responsibility to ensure dairy farmers have the opportunity to achieve the best possible price for their milk. in this regard, i would urge producers to look carefully at the measures and take full advantage.
mr president, firstly i want to thank the rapporteur, my colleague from northern ireland, jim nicholson, for all of his efforts in getting this report to this stage. while we all recognise the issues raised by the high-level group and by this report, the elephant in the room remains, namely the question how farmers are to receive a fairer share of the profit within the supply chain, especially from retailers. prior to the elections in 2010, the conservative party in the united kingdom pledged to put in place a supermarket ombudsman. they have now been the lead party in our coalition government for almost two years and we still have no arbiter for fairness in this food supply chain in place. we need real, tangible progress on this now and such an ombudsman must have the teeth and power to deal with the unfairness within the market. the report deals with the power farmers have in the supply chain, but i would raise concerns about the level of responsibility given to the commission and the role of interbranch organisations. i feel that such organisations may well add another layer to the supply chain. northern ireland has a unique milk trading system and a cooperative structure, but also trades a large amount of milk with another member state. any organisation which would have jurisdiction in two member states must not affect the current structure or disturb the balance in trading relations. member states should be given the flexibility to decide what is best, in their own interests and in the interests of their producers.
mr president, could i too offer my congratulations to my colleague jim nicholson for delivering the first piece of legislation under the new lisbon powers. i just hope we make the same speed when it comes to negotiating the cap as he has managed to achieve during the milk package. i welcome the dairy package as a significant step forward in bringing greater transparency to the eu milk market; it makes it possible for dairy farmers to come together and have greater strength in the market place. legislation provides for fair and open contracts and i hope they will help to eradicate some of the abuses in the dairy market. but as jim himself pointed out, this is no silver bullet to solving some of the problems that there are in the market place. producers need to come together to use these powers if they are going to extract a better return. in the united kingdom the coalition government has called on the dairy industry and the farmers’ representatives to agree a voluntary code of conduct and i welcome that initiative. however, the minister should make it crystal clear to the dairy trade that, should they refuse to sign up to a voluntary solution, he will wield the big stick and use the contract powers in this legislation to compel them to do so. one area i am still concerned about is the role of the retailers who are not covered by this legislative package. i think the agriculture committee in this house needs to look at this because there are still real concerns that retailers are abusing their dominant position in the market place.
mr president, i will add my own congratulations to our rapporteur, not – as he might suspect – through gritted teeth, but certainly through a sore throat. it is right that we acknowledge that he has worked very hard to pull together some very divergent opinions on this issue, but in my group we still diverge. we do not believe that this package goes far enough. there are some points to like, and there are others to be rather less enthusiastic about, because this is urgent. the milk market is not working: it is not functioning in the best interests of our producers, our consumers or our wider society. in scotland, we have seen a 7% decline in our national herd since 2007. we see systemic imbalances within this market, and even those who are in favour of this report are the first to admit that it is not a silver bullet. it is not going to solve all the problems. perhaps we should come up with a better package than the one we have before us today. that said, there clearly is a majority for this package. i am glad to welcome some elements of it. reluctantly, we will not be supporting the full package, as i fear that it misses the point entirely and that we will all be back here this time next year wondering why so little progress has been made.
mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. my constituency, the south-west of england, is the premier area for dairy production in the uk and, i think, one of the best in europe. our dairy farmers are forward-looking and increasingly efficient. most welcome competition. they do not want or expect protection by market distorting measures. they expect support through sensible regulation. however, it is clear that the balance of cost and income between producers, processors and retailers has become distorted over the years. this will not be solved overnight, but this report goes some way towards doing so. at a time when dairy farmers face increasing costs through, amongst other things, our demands from here on nvzs, greening measures, etc., let us look at the positive in this report: the ability of member states to make decisions on contracts, and the flexibility that has been left there. let us look at the positive and look forward to this being the first step towards creating value for farmers and consumers.
(opening words lost as microphone switched off) ...to oppose eu legislation in general and the cap in particular. however in an area of current eu competence we would reluctantly support a measure that was unambiguously in the interest of a sector of the uk economy. to oppose it because we are opposed to eu membership would be to betray the interests of our fellow-nationals. nearly all uk milk producers already have written contracts, although it must be said that they do not generally meet the standards stipulated in this milk package. dairy farmers do need to be able to cooperate on a sufficient scale to confront the cartel of milk buyers, to which they sell their milk, without fear of investigation by the competition authorities. the gap between farm-gate prices and retail prices must be narrowed. we are concerned about the abolition of milk quotas, which might lead to the competitive dumping of milk from one member state to another. the recommendation for improving transparency is limited to collating the volume of raw milk delivered to dairies. the uk is already more advanced in the collation of such market information.
member of the commission. - mr president, a few remarks following the debate on this proposal. some of you have pointed out that the milk quota is being abolished and that it must be maintained. i would like to remind you that the 2009 milk crisis occurred when we still had quotas. this shows that the current quota system is no longer a solution under the present market conditions. that is why the council decided in 2008 to abandon this system. so there is no commission in this. it is a council regulation which already confirms this decision. i am also well aware that this milk package may not solve all the problems in the dairy sector, but we wanted to act quickly. mr. dantin said he disagreed with me on the term "quickly". i consider it to be a quick one, given that the high level group presented its conclusions in spring 2010. the commission presented its legislative proposals, after the whole internal procedure in the commission in the autumn, at the end of 2010 in any case. we are now at the beginning of 2012 and we are able, after a codecision procedure, to bring this process to a close. however, already in this milk package, the commission has proposed, and i have undertaken to come forward with a progress report in 2014, to analyse the state of the milk sector and the milk market again before the expiry of the milk quota in 2015, and to consider, on the basis of this report and analysis of the market situation, whether it is necessary to submit any further proposals. some of you have pointed out the problem of cooperatives. as mr nicholson said, cooperatives are given special treatment because they are not required to accept parts of the proposal that do not directly concern them. the cooperatives themselves are a solution which the individual producer did not have because, in this framework, the producers themselves also find themselves masters of the processing part. the question of the so-called soft landing, i.e. the phasing out of milk quotas. here again some of you have pointed out that the commission is not doing its job and that it does not want to put forward any further proposals. but it is always farmers, and even some of you, who say that a certain degree of stability is sometimes necessary in order to be able to plan a little bit for the medium term. the council decided in 2008 on this system of soft landings, of gradual increases in quotas until they are eliminated in 2015. there is therefore no reason for the commission to reverse a decision taken by the council just a few years later. as regards the transparency of the food chain and the negotiating relationship between producers, processors and the large retailers, i would remind you that the commission has set up a forum on the food chain, which is currently working on all these issues. the commission has decided not to intervene with regulation before listening to the actors in the food chain and before letting the actors discuss and come up with proposals, so as not to regulate more when the problems can be solved otherwise. at the last meeting of this food chain forum, the commission made it clear that in june this year it would take stock of the work of this forum and in particular of the proposals made by the actors in the food chain. on this basis the commission will come to you and the council with a report and, if necessary, with proposals in this direction. once again, i would like to thank you, and particularly mr nicholson, for the efforts you have made to conclude these negotiations and to be able today to adopt these commission proposals.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate: those who were very constructive and those who were less constructive. i take all the points of view on board, but i think i can simply say we have got the best deal that was possible at the time. milk quotas have been with us for thirty years. they have done a tremendous job throughout the whole of the european union during that time, and let us hope that this new package will do an even better job. that is what my hope would be. i share the concerns of those who come from disadvantaged areas and from mountainous regions; those are the areas which i think could be seriously affected by this move. it is for that reason we have enshrined in this report that the commission will report by 2018. i will bring to the next coordinators’ meeting of the committee on agriculture and rural development the proposal that next year the committee on agriculture will consider doing an own-initiative report on the effects of milk quotas going away and maybe hurting those particular areas. can i also deal with one other point and that is the ‘soft landing’ part raised by mairead mcguinness and esther de lange. i had two amendments – one from each of them – that i kept to the very last moment, and i can assure them that if i could have done anything about it i would. however, it was not within the realms of the possible. one of the difficulties when you make a piece of legislation is that you cannot put everything into legislation, and that is something this house has got to get used to as we go into the reform package. can i leave you with one particular appeal: we have set out here the rules for the producer and for the processer, but the elephant in the room is not here and we have no law over him and that is the retailer. until we deal in this house with the retailer there will be problems not just for milk but for other areas. can i also leave with this appeal to the producers and to the processers: to work together, to cooperate and give strength between you. then i believe there will be a good future for the dairy sector throughout the whole of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, morocco is a stable north african kingdom with close historical relations across the mediterranean to its nearest european neighbours. my group is in favour of all measures which ensure that morocco remains a prosperous and stable country in north africa and welcomes the recent political and constitutional reform programme from the king, which has so far progressed peacefully without the civil wars that we have seen in other parts of the middle east and north africa. as a general political principle we believe that enpi aid alone is not enough to stabilise the southern mediterranean and that economic growth – to provide the kind of jobs for young moroccans which will mean that they will stay in their countries and be employed and have prosperity in their own country – can come through foreign direct investment and tariff-free or reduced-tariff access to our markets for moroccan exporters, including for agricultural and fisheries products. this is a vice-versa process. we hope that our finished goods, processed goods from the eu in these sectors, will be exported back to morocco. so this agreement is a good one; the cake gets bigger for everybody. this does not mean that we do not support self-determination for the sahrawi people through a referendum, as agreed by the un resolutions, and we are reassured by the commission that this will not be the case, and that the western sahara question has got nothing to do with what is basically a trade agreement between morocco and the eu.
mr president, i also welcome this agreement. occasionally in politics you have to not just talk the talk, but walk the walk. the european parliament was rightly – during and following the arab spring – strongly in favour of the democratic transitions that were taking place and strongly in favour of taking measures to encourage economic stability in north africa. this is our first chance to deliver on those promises. trade – and i serve on the committee on international trade – is not an end in itself, but is a tool to promote economic stability and to reduce poverty. this agreement is an opportunity to deliver on our promises to morocco and to the wider southern mediterranean region. i believe it is not only a good deal for morocco, but a good deal for the european union and our producers. the protection of geographical indicators is vital for european union interests and producers. the fact that sanitary and phytosanitary standards will be the same for european producers and moroccan producers as a result of this agreement means that all producers will now be competing on a level playing field. this should serve to reassure european consumers. of course, i understand the concerns of our southern colleagues. but i believe that the commission will live up to the assurances that it has given on ensuring that the maintenance of minimum prices and the application of quotas are monitored. of course, if the commission fails to carry out proper and due monitoring, we will come back to this chamber and hold them to account for that. but with the proper monitoring and the safeguards that are in place, this is a deal that can work for europe and a deal that helps to cement a fruitful relationship with our moroccan partners.
blue-card question. – mr president, i just wonder if ms miranda can name the agricultural products that are grown in the western sahara and how many of them make their way to the european union. the clue, by the way, is in the name: western sahara.
mr president, i can start by saying that mr bové’s report is so comprehensive that it is difficult to add anything to the excellent job he has done. but i will point out that, with agricultural wages in morocco at an average of just five euros a day, trade liberalisation can only add to the desperate plight of farmers in greece, sicily and spain. it is madness for the eu to give preferential treatment to big business concerns exploiting the maghreb while its banking elite force murderous poverty on hard-working people in our own back yard. since not even the most crazed global-warmist still claims that we will soon be growing olives in lancashire or oranges in kent, it follows that we will have to continue to import such produce. let us do so from our hard-pressed fellow europeans in greece, italy, france, portugal and spain. leave the farmland of morocco to support farming families in morocco, rather than helping international agri-business swallow it all up and spit the human wreckage out at our shores as destitute and angry islamist refugees.
blue-card question. – mr vajgl, i still do not see why a trade agreement which would allow sahrawis, who are also producers of agricultural products, to export – presumably to our markets – is actually going to threaten their livelihoods or their rights to self-determination. i fully understand that the western sahara question is a very key one. it was very different when it was a matter of eu money being disbursed under the fisheries agreement. this is about a trade issue, so why is trading with the western sahara violating their rights to sovereignty or self-determination? that is my question to mr vajgl.
mr president, i have heard a great deal in this debate this evening from the people who are saying no to this agreement about workers’ rights, trade union rights, human rights and the abuse of those rights in western sahara. these are the same people who, only a few weeks ago, said no to the renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement. are they aware that more than 600 sahrawi people immediately lost their jobs in dakhla, western sahara, in a processing factory? are they aware that 780 fishermen from andalucía, the canaries and portugal lost their jobs? and these are not wealthy people! what about their rights? what about the rights of these people in western sahara who lost their jobs while all the bleeding hearts in here were talking about workers’ rights? in my personal opinion you should learn more about what the actuality is, the reality on the ground, before you take these votes, but let us listen to what david martin said this evening and support this agreement.
author. − mr president, i am presenting this oral question and resolution on behalf of the economic and monetary affairs committee. we postponed the debate from the last strasbourg session as commissioner rehn could not attend. so we are disappointed that, once more, other duties have called him away. we are well aware, in the committee, of all the strands of the arguments, from those that inherently support common stability bonds to those of the opposite view. but we are of the view that, in some form, they are part of the picture. if we look back at our attempts to stabilise the euro zone crisis, they can be characterised as believing that, within a monetary union, a small part would not bring down the whole, just as one city or state does not bring down the us. there has been a belief that, because of the political commitment of the whole, the deterioration in a highly-indebted member state would not follow the path of that experienced in other individual indebted countries. we can blame delay and prevarication for our attempts always being behind the curve, but it is time to examine missing elements too, including the fact that what we do also marks the level of ambition and commitment to the next stage of evolution of the monetary union and to the euro’s place as a reserve currency. in other words, ambition counts: maybe even more so in this time of awful austerity. therefore we are anxious to learn what are the interim results of the consultation on stability bonds and, based on the consultation, what are the next steps foreseen by the commission. since the green paper was issued in october, there have been further political agreements – such as those of the european council in december – which have also been carried forward. these decisions to enhance the sustainability of public finances also contribute towards creating the necessary conditions for the potential introduction of stability bonds. therefore, what kind of policy instrument would be the most effective in the short term? as i said with regard to ambition, stability bonds would show that there is a medium term plan beyond austerity. the ‘redemption pact’ proposed by the german council of economic experts shows a long-term way that excess debt could be handled. there is some similarity between that plan and how the australian states first moved to common issuance. neither should we overlook the possibility of short-term euro bills. i dubbed these once ‘the beginner’s bond’, but they could be both time- and quantity-limited, with good behaviour needed to allow rollover. bills also have the advantage of lower interest rates and in these times of high debt, struggling fellow-member states do need every single basis point squeezed off what they have to pay. from a personal point of view, taking that overriding necessity of squeezing down debt servicing payments, i would see eventual recirculation of the profit element of bond interventions by the european central bank back to the indebted member state as a reasonable manoeuvre. mr president, as i have not taken all my time, i would be happy if you would allocate the rest to parliament’s rapporteur sylvie goulard.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, sovereign issuance of debt is a national necessity and a way in which national governments can raise the funding required to pay for their policy delivery. the cost of funding to a sovereign is the single most important method of ensuring they do not live beyond their means. fiscal prudence and the direct relationship between lender and borrower, in this case the member state and the financial investors in government bond markets, are the brakes on the system, preventing overspending in the short, medium, and long term. currently sovereign issuance in the euro zone is still conducted individually by euro zone member states, but the stability bonds being proposed would entail a significant pooling of sovereign issuance. it remains to be seen whether a stability bond could be designed so that it does not lead to an increased risk of moral hazard. removing the direct link between a sovereign and its investor is a risky strategy. however, designing a stability bond which delivers a reduced cost of debt for some poorer euro zone countries at an acceptable expense for the more wealthy is as big a challenge. as the german ambassador recently said to a house of lords inquiry, stability bonds are not a solution to the existing crisis. if there is any debate about eurobonds this is not the time to have it. this is something that could be the crown to an existing fiscal union, but it would have very great moral hazard in an incomplete monetary union. we need to listen to his wisdom. if a member state spends or borrows too much, it risks losing investor confidence. collective issuance of debt will not disguise the fundamentals and investor confidence in the whole of the euro zone may unnecessarily be put at further risk.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in the 1970s the community reinvestment act in the united states made due diligence in banking illegal. to pursue a political goal, the administration laid open the pathway to what we now know as sub-prime debt. it proved to be – as i said it would at the time – a pathway to hell paved with good intentions. it was conceived to make banks lend to people who could not possibly repay. we politicians now love to blame the banks, but it started with politics. sadly, politicians do not understand money. how else could we have got ourselves into this appalling mess? yet we have learnt nothing; we are now advocating a form of eurobond, a sub-prime debt instrument by any other name. again, we are bailing out the banks at the expense of the taxpayer. the ecb, the bank of england and the fed are all at it: print money; give it to the banks to buy junk bonds – bogusly rated as double a – to shore up their reserves and guarantee salaries and bonuses that ordinary people can only wonder at. we have learnt nothing from the 2008 crisis. we are desperately clinging to a failed political ideal as our cities riot and burn. the day must surely come when politicians, bureaucrats and central bankers must be called to account by a fiscal crimes tribunal and sent to prison for a very long time.
mr president, when it comes to borrowing money, interest is not the only price you pay. your creditor or guarantor will demand conditions for the loan. stability bonds might facilitate borrowing by insolvent countries by providing a joint and several guarantee of repayment. however, the real price to be paid by the peoples of ailing countries, rather than their governments, will be even more budgetary constraints, leading to economic depression, greater unemployment, misery, homelessness and even suicide. for greece, the cradle of democracy, the unelected commission will determine tax and spending policies that should instead be determined by greek voters through their elected representatives in their own national parliament. these sacrifices might be worthwhile if they guaranteed prosperity for the ailing countries. however they are locked in a currency that is absurdly overvalued for their economies. they need reversion to their own currencies, which will devalue and then produce export-led recoveries.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, spectrum gunnar, our mobile data traffic is expected to double, double and double again in the next three years; we love our smartphones, new devices, new apps. coordinated spectrum release will boost access, allow seamless services across our borders, drive competition and innovation and deliver lower prices and higher quality. spectrum is a finite resource often hoarded by public sectors. countries should liberalise the existing 3g spectrum for the next generation and allow spectrum to be traded, giving access to new entrants. releasing spectrum is vital for economic growth. in rural areas at 800 mhz you can access the parts other bands cannot reach and 2.6 ghz will give deeper coverage in our cities. it is important to coordinate activities and a spectrum inventory will help. but member states must also be able to safeguard local services. to maintain our competitive position our countries must deliver our shared digital vision. allocating spectrum is one step but customers need to be able to use it. for that we need long-term investment in our infrastructure and that is an even bigger challenge. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think it goes beyond bands. it is about building the infrastructure so that the infrastructure roll-out keeps pace with the demand. elsewhere in this parliament we are legislating on long-term investors, and may be making europe less attractive to the long-term investors we need to build our mobile infrastructures and other infrastructures.
blue-card question. – i welcome mr daul’s comments about the need to reduce youth unemployment. mr daul, do you agree with me that a good way of doing this would be to repeal the working time directive?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, european politics is no longer anchored in reality. eu summits are becoming a political ritual, somehow divorced from the real world. every summit – and we have seen lots of them in recent months – comes and goes with the same old mantras and demonstrations of hope triumphing over experience. a little bit more austerity and immediately confidence in the euro will somehow magically come flooding back. another treaty package to tinker with the rules and the markets will suddenly realise that they have been wrong all along and the euro is in fact completely sound. and then at the end of them all, we see the same ritual – the stern-faced leaders emerge, they gaze at the cameras and they repeat the same old mantras: ‘we will do all we can to save the euro’. but they never actually quite specify exactly what they are going to do to save the euro. if politics has traditionally been seen as the art of the possible, the eu is turning it into an art of delusion. surely, eventually, this nonsense needs to stop. the risks are becoming too great for yet another of the many summits that come and go, and which fail to face reality. let me start with greece. i was amazed that neither the commission nor the council mentioned anything about greece in their opening statements, as if it has suddenly disappeared off the map. nobody believes that the latest package will save greece. none of the mps in greece who voted for it on sunday night seem to believe this, none of the international commentators or economists believe it; even the german finance minister who insisted on it does not seem to believe that it will save greece. because even if all of the measures that were voted for on sunday night are implemented – and, given greece’s record, that is probably unlikely – then by 2020, after eight more years of grinding austerity, greece would still be in a worse position than italy is today. greece is suffering from a 30% loss of competitiveness against germany. how do you eliminate such a deficit? economic reform in the long term will clearly be essential, but in the short term there really is now only one solution: a default, coupled with a devaluation, is the only way now to salvage something from the wreckage of the greek economy, and to save a generation or more of young greeks from a miserable economic inheritance. all of the energy currently being devoted to drafting and ratifying a new treaty that is completely irrelevant to the ongoing crisis would be better employed drafting and implementing a plan for the orderly withdrawal of greece from the euro, including carefully prepared support for the banks that will be most affected. that is the sustainable solution and everything else is just a very expensive way of further kicking the can down the road.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the commissioner picked the right man: puppet papademos is in place and, as athens caught fire on sunday night, he rather took my breath away. he said: ‘violence and destruction have no place in a democratic country’. what democratic country? he is not even a democratically elected prime minister. he has been appointed by you guys. greece is not run through democracy now, it is run through a troika: three foreign officials who fly into athens airport and tell the greeks what they can and cannot do. the violence and destruction that you saw on sunday is being caused directly because people are having their democratic rights taken from them; what else can they do? if i were a greek citizen i would have been out there joining those protests on sunday; i would be out there trying to bring down this monstrosity that has been put upon those people. in the puppet’s efforts to get the mps to vote for the bail-out package he warned them that if they did not do so there would be a dramatic decline in living standards. has he looked outside the front door? has he seen the fact that 50% of the young people are unemployed already? has he seen the fact that the economy, far from stalling, has contracted for five years in a row, and is now accelerating on a downward debt spiral, a contraction of 7% per annum? greece is being driven into the ground, and when it comes to chaos, you ain’t seen nothing yet. these policies are driving greece towards a revolution. they need to be set free. if they do not get the drachma back, you will be responsible for something truly, truly horrible. (applause)
mr president, try as one might to respect the european council, it is fairly clear that there is not one of its members that still believes that system of government works. should we be respecting the remorseless logic of fiscal union? why are we not taking decisive steps to bring it on now? if we agree that we need, for greece and other countries, fiscal solidarity and a federal economic government, then bring it on today. can we really wait five years to integrate the fiscal compact treaty inside the union? more procrastination and false starts by national governments and partial agreements, subject to national parliamentary vetoes, with the odd referendum thrown in, will not save the european union from self-destruction.
mr president, the fiscal compact which heads of government will soon be asked to sign is a private agreement open to all eu states, but does not have to be agreed by all states. it is not, therefore, an official eu treaty. whilst member states can, under article 273 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, bring an alleged breach of a private agreement to the court of justice, there is no provision in the treaties for the court to enforce agreements on excessive budget deficits, despite claims to the contrary, and it might not even be able to adjudicate on them. if the parties to this agreement wish it to be enforceable, it will have to become a treaty agreed by all member states. mr cameron saying that he does not object to the european court or the european commission being used is simply not enough for it to become a treaty. when the british prime minister vetoed the proposed treaty in december, he did so to protect his friends in the city. i hope that at future european council meetings mr cameron will veto any attempt to turn this agreement into a treaty, with the purpose of preventing the creation of an economic straitjacket that might one day be imposed on britain.
mr president, we must support entrepreneurship and smes and we must improve the functioning of the single market. above all, we must cut red tape if we want to create jobs and increase growth. i would like to speak briefly on ms cornelissen’s report which, unfortunately, i and fellow uk conservatives cannot support in its entirety. this year – 2012 – should be the year we focus on the member states’ implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, and surely it is counterproductive for us to pre-empt member states’ progress and to make presumptions of failure. also, we cannot support calls for a financial transaction tax or for eu funding in areas where member states have already decided to make cuts, because these go against subsidiarity.
mr president, with the greek and italian debt crises under the burden of the euro, of course unemployment is rising. spain has over 40% youth unemployment – yet there is a call for more europe. employment policy should be to cut regulations by half at least as the target for 2020, instead of which more legislation is being proposed. if you want growth and jobs, stop promoting the failed euro. look at what it has done to greece. set them and others free, free to reorganise their own currency and to set their own interest rates. remember the euro forerunner, the erm? my country was in that project; interest rates rose and so did unemployment. finally, interest rates went up to 15% – totally unsustainable – but at least the government came to its senses and withdrew from the erm. that was on black wednesday in 1992, but it should be remembered as ‘freedom wednesday’, for interest rates fell, employment gradually recovered and we entered a period of economic growth. now that is the model you want.
mr president, the eu should not have responsibility over setting an eu strategy on jobs or for developing an eu-level strategy for employment. i fundamentally believe that member states are better placed to make decisions on employment and develop their own employment strategy. a one-size-fits-all model really cannot be applied because the employment situation in each member state – and indeed within each member state as in the case of wales within the uk – is affected by different factors. a tailored and targeted approach must be adopted to ensure that we tackle priorities locally for employment and find specific measures that improve future employment opportunities, especially for our young people. care needs to be taken with this eu-wide strategy.
mr president, one in five greeks is now unemployed, 60 000 small firms have closed in the last year, the economy, which was scheduled to contract by 3% in 2011, has contracted by 6% and there is no end in sight as long as greece remains in the euro. there is austerity and poverty and deflation without end. i noticed in the debate this morning that it seems to be dawning on some of our colleagues on the left that they have picked the wrong side, that they are lining up with the establishment, the bondholders and the banks against ordinary workers in greece, and that this bailout money is going to rescue some very wealthy individuals from the consequences of their mistakes but the repayment is going to come from ordinary taxpayers. that is what happens when you base your whole policy on signalling your disapproval of nationalism. that is what happens when you take a position based on doing the opposite of people that you do not like. but it is never too late to come to your senses, my friends: ‘joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.’
mr president, i generally believe that the eu should not uniformly dictate employment laws across its member states. i also remain sceptical about the need for an eu strategy on jobs or a reinforced coordinated strategy on employment. forcing our member states to adopt the same uniform policies across the board when their social structures and the economic problems they face are very different will do little to nothing to aid employment levels in the union. what is good for one country will doubtless prove unworkable for another, so i think it is best if member states are left alone to define their own national reform programmes and to implement their own reforms as they see fit.
mr president, although this proposal allows for the continuation of a scheme which provides food for deprived individuals in some eu member states, i do not agree that eur 500 million should be allocated for this scheme from the common agricultural policy budget. this essentially is a social policy which therefore should not be part of the cap. indeed i question whether it should even be funded by the eu budget at all. social policy and its implementation should be a member state competence and so this initiative should be funded by national, social and welfare programmes. cap payments should support agriculture and rural development; structural funds should improve competiveness. if this is to be funded from the limited eu budget then it should only be sourced from within the existing esf, which is for social purposes. i am pleased to hear today the commission say they recognise this fact.
mr president, while this scheme has merit on a social and compassionate level, i would question whether the eu is the best level at which to define the needs of the most deprived and then address them in an efficient and cost-effective way. as a believer in the primacy of the member state, i believe that this is where need is best defined and met. but this is not only about poverty and social exclusion. in this parliament we are currently in deep discussion about a reformed common agricultural policy, a cap which should be about food supply and security. we should ask the commission to reconsider its proposals and put this at the heart of the policy. but is it not ironic that today in greece we see people going short of food, and farmers bringing food supplies into greek cities to distribute for free, while at the same time we have demands for more austerity that we know greece cannot meet? and all for that political project which is the euro.
mr president, once again this house is in full cartesian demon mode, imagining that somehow, with this sententious declaration about the needs of the hungry, we wipe out and efface the reality of our policies. the single policy which causes most indigence and hunger in the world is the common agricultural policy, a policy which doubly affects developing countries, both by denying markets to their chief exports and then by dumping surpluses upon them. but european policies are no longer just exporting hunger: we have now brought it into the european union too. according to news reports, well-dressed greeks are rummaging through dustbins and farmers are bringing food supplies into the cities to their relatives – all in order to sustain the euro. we, comfortable and well fed here, rather than admit our mistake are prepared to inflict this terrible price on people outside, and then we dare to pass high-minded resolutions like this and pat ourselves on the back and feel good about ourselves. i am sure you are long past trying to convince your constituents but, my friends, i think you are now past trying to fool yourselves about this.
mr president, i voted against the report on food distribution to the most deprived persons in the union. the scheme clearly does provide nutritious benefit to a certain number of deprived people and i do not deny that soup kitchens, many of which receive this money, are a lifeline for the homeless. what i find difficult to reconcile is that eur 500 million of funding for the scheme comes from the cap and is not used by many member states. my country, the uk, does not use the scheme at all. i firmly believe that a scheme such as this would be better managed by the individual member states themselves from their social security budgets, as such a policy is clearly a social policy. funding should not be taken from the cap and the scheme should not be delivered through the eu but left to individual national governments to decide upon as a matter of subsidiarity. i believe in the principle that the eu should be doing less and should be doing it better.
mr president, the eu radio spectrum policy makes sensible proposals in line with the digital switchover and will help member states in driving innovation through the release of funds whilst safeguarding services at local level. without doubt the radio spectrum could be used more efficiently as we complete the transition to digital. we need to ensure that the bandwidth previously required is now released for this spectrum to be allocated for use elsewhere. measures which facilitate access to broadband in rural areas are to be welcomed. i know that this recommendation and subsequent actions will be particularly beneficial to my constituents in wales, as there is currently a severe lack of broadband coverage in some of our more remote areas – a situation which needs to be urgently remedied.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the report on the first programme of the radio spectrum policy. with the freeing-up of a certain amount of the radio spectrum following the digital switchover, the spectrum can now be used more efficiently and we believe the proposals put forward by this report outline an effective way in which this can be achieved. we back this proposal as we feel that its attempt to coordinate certain spectrum use is useful and it is done in such a way that it leaves enough flexibility to the individual eu member states. this means that services can still be protected at a local level and also that innovation is not hampered as a result. i particularly welcome the fact that more wi-fi coverage for broadband internet access is a development that may come about as a result of these proposed changes.
mr president, i welcome today’s recommendation on radio spectrum policy harmonising the 800 mhz band across the eu because its value in terms of distance and penetrability enables access to broadband and will allow people in the remotest of areas across europe to have access to faster internet speeds. indeed, within the uk conservative party we feel very strongly that broadband internet is vital for growth, which is why we are aiming to vastly increase the number of households with access to super-fast broadband. we are looking to follow world leaders in the field, particularly in asia, who have taken measures to open up competition in this sector, so that we can become european leaders ourselves. this is a particular interest of mine as i represent the east midlands region of england, where 88% of the land is classified as being rural, containing 30% of the east midlands population. initiatives such as this go a long way towards assisting individuals in their work and their daily lives and helping business to develop, and this is why i and my political group support this regulation.
mr president, the report on contractual relations in milk and the milk products sector addresses the issue of the lack of bargaining power that smaller farmers have when they negotiate the price of their milk with retailers in particular. farmers in wales should have greater bargaining power and control over the price they receive for their milk. this has become ever more important as the number of dairy farmers in wales has halved over the past decade, from 4000 to 2000 farms. it is right that contracts should continue to remain voluntary at national level, and the welsh government could intervene in this way should that be deemed necessary. however, i would be opposed to introducing a mandatory eu-wide contract, as this would only increase the bureaucratic burden for member states and farmers alike. for those member states that choose to impose contracts, it is sensible to require certain conditions to be met relating to the price to be paid and the duration of the contract. this would be particularly important for farmers in giving them a better sense of certainty and stability in the current economic climate. an increase of only a few pence per litre in the average price for milk would significantly change the economic position of the dairy sector in wales and secure its future.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, as amended, because it encourages farmers to come together and increase their collective power within the supply chain. large retailers have too much buying power and take a disproportionate amount of profit. this is an imbalance within the supply chain which must be addressed, and which impacts on the small family-owned farms characteristic of northern ireland. the future of the common agricultural policy, and ensuring ‘safety nets’, must also be a priority in order to protect producers when the market fails. the safe landing for the industry which was promised after 2015, when quotas are to end, is another area which the commission must look at and plan for. if we experience a dramatic increase in milk production which consequently reduces milk prices within the eu, we must have clear guidance as to how the commission intends to protect producers. altogether, this is a good start on the issues within the dairy sector. there is much more work to be done.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the report on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector. we believe that the report serves to address some concerns about the lack of bargaining power for farmers – yes, there are even some dairy farmers in the london region, which i represent – when negotiating with processors or retailers, and we back the move to recognise formally any interbranch organisation at member state level, provided they meet certain criteria. eu member states are left the choice to opt into the contracts, which we as a group also believe is extremely important. we believe that the proposals put forward in this report for those states that choose to comply are satisfactory and that the percentages requested for producer organisations are also realistic. overall we believe that the proposals in this report will not serve to lessen competition in the milk sector, which would be our main concern and which we would, of course, oppose as a group.
mr president, in any crisis, the first instinct of the eurocrat is to reach for his wallet – or rather to reach for somebody else’s wallet, because of course, as we know in this chamber (although this is not widely known outside), employees of the european union are exempt from paying national taxation. so somebody else is picking up the bill in order to cover this error. it is a policy of excessive monetary integration and a policy of excessive spending that brought us to this pass; we are not going to get out of it by accelerating the very things that led us here. it really does seem extraordinary – even by the standards of this organisation – that the one solution we have to a debt crisis is more debt. we have got like a runaway train into this kind of momentum: bailout and borrow, bailout and borrow. there comes a point when you run out of track, and i think we have reached that point now.
mr president, when we look at the state of the economies across the eu and even at many households – including in my own country of the united kingdom – we see the consequence of member states and their people living beyond their means. it is therefore unwise, against this backdrop – which has entailed a more accountable lending process being instituted – for us to suggest a break or lessening in the link between the member state and the investor in bond markets through the pooling of sovereign issuance. irresponsibility put us into the financial quagmire we now find ourselves in, and my concern with stability bonds would be that irresponsibility would be given greater dispensation and investor confidence would be further diminished.
mr president, i voted against eu stability bonds, or eurobonds, as they fail to address the central problem: the euro itself. it is clear the euro is a dangerous and failed construct, and no political posturing or economic gesturing gets us away from the basic truth that the euro is disastrous for the world economy. the sooner troubled nations like greece devalue and default, the better. the cure is now more dangerous and deadly than the malady. is there no end to these desperate measures to prop up this political currency? the trampling of democracy in greece, italy and elsewhere by the eu’s new inner politburo, the frankfurt group, so that europe erupts in flames. barroso and van rompuy going cap in hand to china for rescue funds – and at what price? gerrymandering lagarde into the imf so the imf is misused as a new euro bailout fund. weimar-like plans to print eur 2 trillion to buy rubbish bonds; new wheelbarrows to carry all the notes. for god’s sake, for all our sakes, let the euro go.
mr president, i agree with the premise of this report that all member states should be seeking to find ways to foster growth in order to get us out of this crisis. ideally, the annual growth survey would work in parallel with the economic governance package and the eu could add value by coordinating what is being done at the member state level. however, in this report parliament has decided instead to focus on broad-sweeping eu schemes and taxation, including the ludicrous financial transaction tax. worse, it tries to come up with an eu approach to things like unemployment, as though it can be solved by some eu silver bullet. the reasons behind unemployment and the measures member states may use to tackle it are culturally specific and market-specific. other groups may be happy to agree to an eu policy. i am not.
mr president, i voted against this report, because it aims to strengthen employment policy and economic governance at european level. these are clearly member state competences, and this is the way it must stay. i also took exception to the report’s needless call for a tax on financial transactions to enhance sustainable job creation. this parliament insists on a tax which will only damage the european economy. this parliament is hell-bent on destroying the financial service industry in my constituency of london, and again, this parliament refuses to listen to member states that do not want to and will not accept this tax.
mr president, the terms ‘growth’ and ‘employment’ roll off the tongue quite easily, but it is the policy pursued by europe which is denying employment and denying economic growth to many of its citizens. the euro zone crisis is causing unemployment to rise across europe. in spain there is over 40% youth unemployment and in greece 50%. within the economic straitjacket of the euro, what hope and what future do these young people have in an economy that simply will not grow while tied to the euro project? this is the scandal of president barroso, the commission and the euro establishment. it is a scandal that is manifesting itself in greece in violence, and in the greek parliament where euro bureaucrats are pre-eminent over elected representatives. i voted against this report also because of its support for a financial transaction tax, supposedly to support employment and growth. in reality it will be a raid on the united kingdom tax base to prop up the euro zone’s profligate spending. if europe is serious about employment and growth, it could start with very simple measures like cutting red tape and helping smes, but it certainly will not do it with the measures outlined in this report.
mr president, i have opposed this own-initiative report on employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey for the reason – amongst others – that it continues to support a european and not a global financial transaction tax. the report calls on the european council to set up a tax on financial transactions to enhance sustainable job creation. i am afraid that this cannot even be considered by politicians claiming to represent the interests of the british people. in fact it is also ridiculous to talk of job creation as a result of such a tax, which would have a disastrous effect on some of the 1.9 million people employed in our financial sector in the city of london and beyond. i will not vote in favour of a report which proposes a tax that could harm jobs for the people from my constituency in the east midlands, many of whom commute to london every day. it is time for the rest of europe to wake up and realise that britain will defend her interests and will not be bullied into accepting disproportionate responsibility for euro area failure. (applause)
mr president, in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we spent a long time discussing this report, and there is much in there on growth and innovation that i support. however, i cannot accept the central conclusion of this report, namely that we need to change the eu treaty in order to give parliament co-decision rights over the annual growth survey. i am not convinced that this is something we should be legislating for. it is fundamentally a matter for member states and not a policy area where parliament would add any value. i find it concerning that, yet again, the european parliament is navel-gazing over its institutions and the interaction between them instead of seeking proportionate responses to the current crisis.
in writing. − although i do not support the extension of schengen acquis, i do however believe that efta member states, in this case iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, have the right to join any compact they wish to without uk interference. i therefore chose to abstain from this vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report. this is a consultation procedure to give the consent to the 2012 rollover of the guidelines for the member states’ employment policies initially adopted in 2010. the aim is that the employment guidelines remain stable until 2014 to ensure a focus on implementation.
in writing. − member states understand the needs and specifics of their own countries and, as such, should not be subject to one-size-fits-all legislation that affects the daily practices of the majority of the population and has a direct impact upon growth and economic stability. thus far, employment policy emanating from brussels has posed many difficulties for companies and organisations across the uk struggling to assimilate eu law into quotidian practice. it is also essential at a time of financial hardship that the legislative approach to work and productivity be dynamic in order to permit the flexibility to foster growth and develop the job market to cater for the greatest number of people. parliament has not been consulted on the issue and has merely approved an eu-level strategy for employment, without full understanding of its potential repercussions. the regulation of employment within the uk and wales must be fully coherent with the specific needs of the citizens affected in constituent regions and demands a targeted and measured approach that is undermined by the imposition of top-down generalised legislation. westminster should remain the unique decision-making body on employment law, and the sole author of a development strategy for the uk, without restrictive infringement or interference from the unelected eu commission.
in writing. − i do not, of course, oppose any measure that aims to combat poverty and hunger in the eu; however, the policy laid before us is both legally unsound and fails to address the real issue of the causes of poverty. the money should not come from the cap budget as a social policy, which, in the opinion of at least the united kingdom, should be a member state domestic competence. what is so mind-boggling about this proposal is that it has failed to acknowledge the leading factor in poverty creation in the eu. reports from athens demonstrate that eu policy adherence to the erroneous single currency project is, in fact, one of the key drivers in poverty creation. greening of cap will also undermine the potential for self-sufficiency in europe and exposes member states to the possibility of food shortages and dependency upon importation. the creation and expansion of pead sets a dangerous precedent in permitting such erroneous and damaging legislation to continue to be made by issuing an illegal ‘back-up plan’.
in writing. − in july 2011 i supported the parliament’s committee on employment resolution calling on the commission and the council for a transitional solution for 2012 and 2013 and a new programme beyond. i do not like the fact that co-financing has been removed from the proposal, as it would ensure that member states spend the money efficiently and effectively. we also understand and share concerns of our scandinavian colleagues. however, at a time of economic crisis, it is important that we have a mechanism at european level to ensure that we are able to get food to those most in need. furthermore it is a good thing that money from the agricultural budget is being used to meet the needs of all citizens, not just farmers.
in writing. − i fully support this resolution to continue the distribution of food to those most in need in our society. the programme supports almost 18 million people, including the unemployed, the homeless, single parents and the disabled. this important resolution will enable these people to continue benefiting from the scheme at least until the end of 2013. in the current economic climate schemes such as this are vital in helping to guarantee the welfare of eu citizens.
in writing. − while i recognise that this scheme has helped many needy people across europe, i do not believe that the common agricultural policy should be spending money on social actions. we must do more to stop food wastage and we must also ensure that the most deprived members of society receive the help that they need. however, i am not persuaded that this is a job for the european union and i am certainly not convinced that this is a job for the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it intends to reject a new attempt by the eu to introduce new legislation and take over control of part of the telecommunications market. i oppose the new strategic planning and unnecessary harmonisation of spectrum use/radio frequencies. i believe that the development and control of the radio spectrum should remain in the hands of democratically elected member states, which should solely regulate in this area and decide upon what strategies to pursue to ensure the promotion of the development of broadband connectivity and availability.
in writing. − i voted for this report which seeks to ‘make sufficient and appropriate spectrum allocated for mobile data traffic, amounting to at least 1200 mhz by 2015 to best meet the increasing demand for mobile data traffic, thereby allowing the development of commercial and public services’. it hopes to bridge the ‘digital divide’ and ‘realise the objectives of the digital agenda, ensuring that all union citizens have access to broadband, not less than 30 mbps by 2020 and making it possible for the union to have the highest possible broadband speed and capacity’. in doing so it hopes to secure opportunities for both the commercial sector as well as public services by means of increased mobile broadband capacities. it also aims to ‘reduce the fragmentation and fully exploit the potential of the internal market in order to establish a pan-european level playing field in order to foster economic growth and economies of scope and scale at union level’. it further aims to ‘reduce the union's carbon footprint by enhancing the technical efficiency of wireless communication networks and applications’.
in writing. − i voted against this report, as i cannot support further eu regulation over the dairy sector, especially interventionist legislation that fails to satisfy the needs of uk farmers. the weakening of the position of welsh farmers within the dairy sector, rendered unable to oppose aggressive behaviour exhibited by retailers and price-fixing cooperatives within the dairy supply chain, has led to the majority of milk being sold at lower than cost price. the uk government in cooperation with the national farmers union and other directly representative bodies should have the freedom to develop legislation in the dairy sector in harmony with our agrarian needs that generates best-fit policies for maximum output, while ensuring an economically viable product and while protecting the industry and the farmers involved.
in writing. − i regretfully had to vote against this report. mr nicholson’s original report was a much stronger document; the new regulation has however been watered down to such an extent by negotiations that it provides insufficient contractual guarantees for dairy farmers, and as a result i was unable to support it.
in writing. − i supported this report and, although i have some reservations, agree with the proposal as a whole. the core elements of the package will give milk producers the opportunity to organise themselves better into producer organisations, thus strengthening their position in the dairy supply chain – especially in relation to large processors.
in writing. − it is not a widely known fact that nearly 9% of land in my constituency of london is still used for agriculture. in fact, london produces 27 tonnes of honey and meat, milk and eggs a year. and it is milk that we are talking about today. i supported my colleague jim nicholson’s report because it strengthens the bargaining position for dairy farms – in particular the smaller farms – and promotes greater transparency in the milk market. what is most significant about the report is that it does not include mandatory eu contracts and leaves the important decision-making up to member states. if we are to help farmers we need to make it easier for them to do business not lumber them with compulsory eu quotas and contracts. farmers have to deal with enough meddling from the eu.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal, as it restricts the use of roll-call voting (rcv), only allowing rcv to be applied to final votes on own-initiative reports from parliament. i believe rcv should be utilised in every situation to ensure democratic control, not just in final reports but on crucial amendments as well. information on how each individual elected member of parliament voted should also be made available for constituents to monitor, yet this proposal appears to further limit the application of roll-call voting to only certain elements of parliamentary decision-making.
in writing. − one of the many valid criticisms often levelled at this parliament – and at the eu institutions as a whole – is that its actions lack transparency and real accountability and are not subjected to the necessary level of scrutiny. for any mep who is a proponent of a more open europe and of effective parliamentary scrutiny, the ilchev report is unacceptable. the ability to request and partake in roll-call votes is an essential part of the process by which this parliament conducts its business and is an important part of the transparency for parliament which we meps should encourage and not seek to suppress.
in writing. − i voted for this report in order to make the parliament's voting sessions more efficient.
in writing. − at the last brussels plenary i was prevented by the president of the european parliament from voting on individual clauses in a report ‘in the interests of efficiency’. i voted against this report because it also proposes to sacrifice democracy in the name of efficiency. we must be able to table split votes and roll-call votes on all items in all reports. our constituents have the right to know how their elected representatives are voting and members deserve the right to express their approval or disapproval of individual clauses in a report. the fact that this report was passed with a large majority is another testament to the ‘stitch-up’ between the largest groups in the european parliament. sunshine is the best disinfectant; the larger political groups should not fear transparency. they should end the stranglehold they have on this parliament and open it up to true democratic principles.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is an economically illiterate attempt to introduce eurobonds by the back door, prioritising collective euro area debt over the restructuring and recovery of national debts. national debt should remain one of the most important aspects of national economies and is the burden of the domestic government involved. at a time of economic hardship, the uk cannot afford the introduction of so-called stability bonds, which are supposed to foster stability in the euro area in the medium term and would be achieved by the use of member state contributions, including a sizeable british contribution to the budget. i cannot agree to the use of welsh taxpayers’ money to support the failing single currency when constituents are suffering economic hardships of their own. it is not right that the uk should be contributing towards paying off the debts of bankrupt euro area economies in order to resuscitate the eu’s single currency ambitions.
in writing. − i believe that the prospect of stability bonds can foster stability in the euro area in the medium term. this report calls on the commission, however, to come forward rapidly with proposals to address decisively the current sovereign debt crisis, such as the european redemption pact proposed by the german council of economic experts and/or the finalisation and ratification of an esm treaty and/or euro bills, as well as joint management of sovereign debt issuance.
in writing. − this report rightly highlights the issue of youth unemployment and calls on member states to make real efforts to address the problem. in my own country, scotland, the government has taken real action in this area and the recent appointment of a dedicated minister for youth employment is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the crisis has had particularly dramatic consequences for the situation of young people trying to find stable employment. young people face an unemployment rate of over 20% and more than 40% in some member states. between 2008 and 2010, the total number of young unemployed people in the eu increased by one million. the share of 15 to 24-year-olds neither in employment, education, or training (neet) rose by 2 percentage points during the same period. while the ags rightly makes the employment of young people a priority, your rapporteur is concerned about the quality of jobs, traineeships and apprenticeships that are suggested in the policy guidance of the commission. i am pleased that the rapporteur wishes to make the fight against precarious work among young people a key part of youth employment policy guidance. also, she suggests recalling the commission’s ‘youth on the move’ flagship, in which it promised to propose a quality framework for traineeships.
in writing. − uk conservative meps voted against this report. while the annual growth survey is an integral part of eu2020, which member states have already signed up to, we believe the majority of this report adds little to help member states achieve their targets. in 2012 we should focus on member states’ implementation of eu2020. we do not consider it productive or useful for the european parliament to pre-empt member states’ progress or to make presumptions of failure at this early stage. we believe in respecting the principle of subsidiarity and therefore cannot agree to calls for a european financial transaction tax, or any calls for greater eu funding in areas where member states have already made cuts – it is not the role of the eu to intervene where some member states have failed. we firmly support the report’s call for the promotion of smes, to improve the functioning of the single market and for the reduction of red tape. here the eu can add real value to the current work of member states. it is crucial that we find pragmatic solutions at european level, such as these to create jobs, increase growth and ensure europe regains its competitiveness.
in writing. − the employment guidelines in this resolution call for member states’ focus on eu 2020 goals and the stability and growth pact to be in equal measure. i share the resolution’s concern that, at the moment, national governments are more concerned with the stability and growth pact, with less importance placed on growth and investment. the resolution also calls on the european council to guarantee that fiscal consolidation does not get in the way of efforts currently in place to tackle unemployment and in particular, youth unemployment. i fully support the resolution’s proposal for a youth guarantee scheme, which is especially important at a time when tough economic conditions make finding employment very difficult for young people.
in writing. − i believe the ags does not include enough measures to promote growth and quality jobs and that there is too much focus on austerity and budgetary consolidation. i do welcome reference to social inclusion and poverty but believe it is contradictory to the overall message of austerity.
in writing. − this resolution, in reaction to the european commission’s annual growth survey, calls for member states to execute the structural reform recommendations that they have committed to. the commission’s ags gives little regard to building confidence among investors, consumers and citizens so i give my support to this resolution, which calls for national governments to address this issue. it also highlights that budget cuts at national level must be combined with other measures to encourage growth. the call by the resolution for democratic legitimacy and national ownership to be increased should bring about quicker economic reforms.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, another famous monty – i refer of course to the equally famous monty python – taught us to always look on the bright side of life. although the economic news is gloomy, there are one or two reasons for italy to be optimistic. on this point i agree with mr verhofstadt because, of course, italy – thankfully – is not greece. nevertheless, the national current account has been mismanaged, going from a healthy surplus to a nearly crippling deficit in merely a decade. it appears so far that the markets respect your leadership, prime minister. 10-year bond yields are almost at a manageable position thanks partly to your proposed economic reforms, but mainly to the actions of the european central bank, which has – crucially – bought you some time. in italy, fiscal consolidation and economic reform could possibly work, but in greece they are clearly not working. an orderly default and a greek euro exit may be bad politics for angela merkel, but i believe it is the ‘least worst’ option now for the euro area and for the eu as a whole. fiscal consolidation will ease the current crisis, but in isolation it is not the long-term solution to our economic weakness. the answer, as many people here have said, is growth, and we have no shortage of policy statements calling for growth and jobs. but let us be honest: so far they have all failed, because they focus more on buzz-words and on gestures aimed at keeping everyone happy and are based on the premise that somehow politicians can create jobs. this is the kind of bureaucratic, statist attitude that got us into this situation in the first place. of course there is one recent economic policy paper that is being put into practice: i refer to the mario monti paper on the single market, which is being enthusiastically championed in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection by my colleague malcolm harbour. in my view the greatest problem we face in europe is that competition has been undermined by the focus on harmonisation instead of liberalisation – and you need only look at eu employment policy to see the devastating impact that it has had on many of our economies. the single market has the ability to deliver more liberal and flexible economies across the eu. the answer is not more harmonisation, rules or red tape – and it is certainly not more europe. the answer, in my view, is a better europe: a europe of liberalisation and competition. professor monti, as prime minister of italy, talking about democracy (you were of course not elected by any citizens, although i accept that you were elected by the italian parliament), you have a great opportunity to articulate this vision and champion economic restructuring and liberalisation not just in italy but across the rest of europe as well. if you succeed in this immensely difficult and challenging task, you will have the support of my group in your efforts.
blue-card question. – madam president, would my honourable friend agree with me that, in 2006 at the united nations, we started this process on the responsibility to protect, which was done to great fanfare? i do not hear the words ‘responsibility to protect’ coming from the council. what is our responsibility to protect using the united nations instruments that we have created? would my friend agree with me that we should take the route of using the concept of ‘responsibility to protect’ within the un, as tony blair and others did to great effect in sierra leone and other places? again, going to syria to protect the innocent people through this un mechanism, and to challenge.... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the shelling in the city of homs by the syrian regime is atrocious and must be condemned unequivocally by the international community. the decision of china and russia to veto a un resolution condemning this brutal crackdown and the killing of many unarmed women and children is also shameful. the syrian regime must be unanimously called upon by the international community to withdraw its forces from the cities of syria, to allow human rights agencies access to the country and to pave the way for eventual democratic elections. the turkish and saudi condemnation of the regime, and in particular turkey’s role in accepting refugees, is commendable. the arab league should also be congratulated for seeking to end the violence and for producing a new peace plan, which the syrian regime must implement without delay. syria must be made to guarantee protection for peaceful protesters and uphold the fundamental human right to freedom of expression. this is not possible, in my view, with assad still in power. he bears ultimate responsibility for any criminal actions of the army, in particular the most active alawite units, as many sunni units are now defecting when deployed militarily. he must recognise the popular rejection of his dictatorship and step aside in the national interest. yesterday mr verhofstadt called for arming the free syrian army. this, in my view, is dangerous at this stage as we do not know who they all are and what role the jihadis play in this and how this might cause a proxy war with iran and hezbollah on one side pouring in arms to the ba’athist regime and saudi arabia and qatar arming islamist insurgents, with innocent unarmed christians, alawites not allied to the regime and other minorities – from kurds to the druze – being caught up in a bloody civil war with major reprisals against non-sunni muslims. however, i – and my group – would support setting up a safe haven for refugees with a no-fly zone, if eventually militarily possible, near the turkish border. but even that is not clearly achievable at this stage. however, every other economic sanction against damascus must be put in place urgently.
mr president, as we look to syria we recognise the horror of what is happening now but also the potential that this crisis could escalate, resulting in even greater bloodshed. it is deeply regrettable that the minimum action required at this stage, the un resolution, was vetoed by china and russia. it is vital that pressure be brought to bear on russia, in particular, to recognise their responsibility in this region. their actions have given the lead to president al-assad in claiming that he has international backing for his actions. that is a heavy responsibility in light of the continued bloodshed on the streets of syria and the purge of the city of homs. today members have sincerely called for a new syria. there is much to fear as to what will come next. for syria’s 2.5 million christians they look at what has happened in egypt and iraq and see that freedom of religion is not part of the new dawn. instead they are experiencing increased persecution. we want to see syria free from the tyranny of al-assad but we want to ensure that the new syria is one where everyone can live peaceably, including the christian minority. as a previous speaker has said, international guarantees will be essential in this respect.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as we approach the annual high-level session and the european parliament’s own delegation to the un human rights council at the end of the first round of the universal periodic review process, and now that the council’s own review is completed, the challenge of our commitment to human rights has never been greater – greatest perhaps at the moment as in the debate we have just conducted on syria. kofi annan, speaking after the launch of the un’s ’responsibility to protect’, said: ’“responsibility to protect” will remain pure rhetoric unless and until those with the power to intervene effectively – by exerting political, economic and in the last resort, military muscle – are prepared to take the lead’. at least 400 deaths this year; sexual violence against those held in custody; children as young as ten in solitary confinement; high commissioner pillay herself saying that these crimes against humanity are likely in syria – it is right that europe goes to geneva and gets the un to act where the un security council has failed to do so. but we should have praise too. on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) rights as the president-in-office rightly said. on libya too: the expulsion of libya was an essential part of the transition in that country which should not be forgotten and which sets a historic precedent for the human rights council itself. it also allowed the country to appoint a new administration explicit in its support for human rights. amnesty international says its people are enjoying freedom of expression for the first time in 42 years. as this parliament’s rapporteur, we should also give full backing to the framework on business and human rights adopted by the council and signal europe’s determination to promote and to implement it, including, i am proud to say, this week, the announcement by the enterprise commissioner, of proposed human rights guidelines for the ict and employment sectors here in europe. the need to challenge ourselves in europe on other issues remains, though. let us recall the recommendation of the goldstone commission following the gaza conflict and the panel of experts’ recommendations following the end of the conflict in sri lanka. time may or may not heal when we suffer an individual bereavement, but when hundreds and thousands die in what are said to be crimes of war, there will never be a healing without justice and the european union must show that all war crimes will be held to account. in sri lanka, having visited the last combat zone this year whilst maintaining my group’s consistent support for an independent commission of inquiry, i acknowledged the government can change the debate if it genuinely conducts investigations against perpetrators and secures convictions, as at least inferred in its own report. finally on behalf of the socialist group too, we should send a clear warning against countries refusing to ratify human rights instruments by being consistent in our own support, including, nine years after it was signed in, the international convention on migrant workers, seeking to protect over 200 million of the most vulnerable people worldwide. it is to our deep shame that no eu country has either signed or ratified this treaty. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr howitt, you mentioned two things which i want to bring together: gaza and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (lgbt) rights. would you agree with me and criticise the high representative for her failure to tackle the issue of corrective rapes of lesbians in palestine, and also police brutality against lgbt people in palestine? i visited gaza and palestine in november last year. this is evidently a problem that the eu ignores, but it still funds palestine and it is afraid to tackle this problem on cultural grounds. would you criticise them for that?
blue-card answer. – no one serious in this room suggests that baroness ashton has anything less than the highest commitment on gender and other forms of discrimination. that question allows me to say that we will be voting against a criticism of her in this text, when she will be in the foreign affairs council upholding that and other principles when she is unable to be in geneva.
mr president, amongst the items on the agenda at the forthcoming un human rights council will be cyprus. i would like to concentrate on human rights issues in northern cyprus and their place in negotiations for turkey’s accession to the european union. in northern cyprus itself, there have been reports of violations of the human rights and freedom from discrimination of minorities, torture, and violations of freedom of movement, religion and speech. in 1974, during the turkish invasion of cyprus, the city of famagusta was overrun by armour, and the civilian population – fearing massacre – was forced to evacuate, leaving behind everything they could not carry. only turks were allowed to remain, and the varosha section of the city remains isolated and unpopulated to this day. this is in contradiction with un security council resolutions 550 and 789. technically, this border dispute does call into question the legitimacy of the cypriot accession to the european union. a 112-mile long ‘green line’ still divides the island. 1 588 greek cypriots are still on the missing persons list following the turkish invasion, but still the eu – with the exception of one or two member states – pushes for turkey’s accession. by discussing turkey’s accession whilst unresolved border issues and questions of human rights in northern cyprus remain, the eu is undermining the integrity of the united nations. you are overlooking appalling human rights abuses, and you are making a mockery of the integrity of your own position on human rights. regarding turkey’s statement that they would freeze eu ties when cyprus takes over the eu presidency, i would ask the high representative: why is the eu negotiating membership with a country that is acting in such a bullying manner? although, on second thoughts, the high representative might agree that such a country would fit perfectly into the european union.
mr president, i welcome the statement on behalf of the high representative. indeed, the human rights council will be an historic first, after the first ever un resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity was adopted last year. the council will at last examine in depth the issue of human rights breaches of lgbt people across the world. we commend the excellent work of the high commissioner for human rights, navi pillay, and hope this session’s panel will be open, frank and intelligent. equally, we need to monitor developments in zimbabwe and condemn the systemic and escalating violation of human rights in zimbabwe under the mugabe administration. in belarus the dictatorial regime needs to be brought to an end, the death penalty abolished, political prisoners released, and free and fair elections must take place. i also welcome the focus on discrimination against people living with hiv and aids. it is crucial to remind people every day that hiv and aids is a disease and not a crime, and we must fight the stigma that people who live with this infection face every single day. finally, i would like to say to the high representative and the commission that it is up to us to fight for human rights and to defend human rights defenders, whether we do so within our eu association agreements or the cotonou agreements. if we turn away from that which we can influence, we can hardly lecture the rest of the world.
mr president, it is self-evident that human rights are universal in that they are enjoyed by all people. rights cannot be withheld systematically from unfavoured groups, but there are some groups that are so unfavoured in polite liberal society that they are universally invisible as victims. the people who head the list of invisible victims are the afrikaners or boers, especially the rural afrikaners in south africa. since 1994 more than 3 000 farmers and their families, most of them afrikaners, have been murdered in systematic genocidal attacks by politically and racially-motivated terrorists. the police routinely refuse to respond to complaints of attacks. the former president of the anc youth league, julius malema, popularised the singing of the song ‘kill a boer’ at anc meetings. the afrikaners are as invisible to the european parliament as they are to the united nations. i wonder why.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is not easy to set your own budget, therefore i wanted to start by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs, the bureau and the parliament’s secretary-general for their cooperation in putting together these guidelines. i believe now that there is a broad consensus that in difficult economic times the european parliament must play its part and make savings in its budget. for example, i now believe that very few in this parliament would argue against the proposal to freeze our budget. i believe certainly we need to ensure that the rise in the parliament’s budget next year is below inflation. no doubt there will be discussions as to what inflation is, but at least there is now this broad agreement. i am also pleased that the main recommendations in our guidelines have been accepted. i think that it is important as a parliament that we identify savings in our own budget. i believe we need to avoid unnecessary new initiatives unless they are absolutely needed. i believe that we need to freeze our travel budget lines, pending the requested review from the secretary-general which we requested as part of this year’s budget process. i believe we need to freeze all allowances for members, both daily allowances and the office allowances, and perhaps have the objective of freezing all those allowances until the end of this particular mandate. i also believe we need to examine all our budget lines, especially those budget lines which are always under-implemented. i believe that these are the budget lines that we should look to, to make savings in our budget. i believe that we need to ensure that we avoid new unforeseen building projects for the rest of this mandate. in the recent past we have had many building projects proposed and now we need to take stock. we need transparency so that this parliament is fully involved and informed about building projects and therefore i welcome the request to have regular updates at the committee on budgets on the building projects which are proposed. another suggestion is to seek greater cooperation with other eu institutions, for example cooperation on buildings, on translation, on interpretation, on security and on human resources. for example, there is already a joint agreement in place between the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee working together jointly on many of these issues. i think perhaps we should take a look at that joint agreement in order to learn some lessons and maybe work with them in terms of joint work and cooperation, again with the aim of making savings. i certainly believe that there is a lot of scope for us to make savings in the translation service for example. so i believe there are many possibilities out there for us to make savings, although i also accept that it is not always easy to identify and make those savings. therefore i have suggested that the secretary-general comes forward with an idea for an independent evaluation of the parliament’s budget. this is a way of bringing fresh eyes, a new pair of eyes to the budget, helping us to identify and make the required savings. my suggestion is that we establish a working group between the bureau and the budgets committee, who can bring in expertise from outside and between them look at making savings. i believe this working group could form the basis of an independent evaluation of parliament’s budget. it could also look at a comparable study which was requested as part of this year’s budget process; a comparable study with other parliaments in europe and maybe the congress of the united states as well. also the working group could look at the travel costs review. we are promised a report on travel costs, again as part of this year’s budget process. this working group could perhaps look at that. finally, i would say to colleagues that i understand some will be concerned about this idea of a freeze in the parliament’s budget. they may feel it is too difficult to achieve but, there again, there are others who will want to go much further and to cut the budget, and indeed some of the amendments in front of us today to be voted on tomorrow reflect that. however, i would hope that most colleagues in this house would agree that the guidelines which we put forward are a good compromise. a good compromise and a good way forward; a way forward which would allow us to make savings in the parliament’s budget but also at the same time to ensure that this parliament is run effectively.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, national governments throughout europe are striving to cut expenditure, deliver better value for money and keep budgets under tight control, and that is our job too. as members of this house, we should be doing the same. we ought to be closely scrutinising the institutions’ budgets; we should be enforcing rigorous cost control, and we have here the real chance to show leadership. i would like to give credit to the secretary-general and parliament’s bureau for the very realistic figures and proposals which they brought forward today. but i would also say that we now have the right, as members of this house, to demand that the other european institutions follow that example. we should be demanding real savings in their budgets and they should be able to demonstrate value for money. i fully support the rapporteur’s call for a freeze on their budgets; indeed, as he will know, there are many areas where i would wish to go further. but for now i congratulate mr vaughan on a very good report. however, there are three points that i want to make. the first concerns building policy. the members of this house ought to be looking more critically at building investment, building management and building cost control, and in particular we should expect the other institutions to be achieving greater efficiencies through sharing resources. secondly, administration and staffing costs. this parliament should be looking to the institutions to deliver a progressive reduction in costs through exploiting economies of scale. it is now time we looked again at staff levels, staff regulations and staff pensions policies to ensure that they are both up to date, relevant and represent value for money to the european taxpayer. finally, it is not possible to have this debate without discussing the two-seat arrangement of this parliament. may i remind this house that, in approving the report by the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure), we called for the parliamentary seat to be kept under review? it is indefensible that this house goes on promoting cost-saving, efficiency and competitiveness amongst the other institutions, amongst national governments and indeed amongst the people of europe while we continue such a wasteful practice ourselves. i would therefore like to recommend to the rapporteur and to this house that, for the sake of the credibility of this institution, we need to have that debate and we ought to have it now.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in the middle of this crisis in which the eu is imposing cuts on member states, this house still thinks it has the right to ask for inflationary increases. it cannot even agree on what the inflation percentage is but, whether it is 1.9% or 3%, the fact is that this eu bureaucracy is already bloated and needs to go on a hard diet. the cost of this parliament, which has grown disproportionately, amounts to more than gbp 2 million per mep. this is not value for money. entertainment and representation costs have grown by 160% in the last four years. we should do away with this expenditure. the house of european history, with an initial cost estimated in excess of eur 50 million and with running costs of more than eur 11 million per annum, is an extravagance at any time. we should be dropping the whole project. funding for european political parties and foundations has grown 176% in the last four years. we do not need these european political parties. we meps are elected by our constituents or on national party lists. prime minister david cameron is calling for a freeze, but what we need is a significant reduction in this parliament’s budget and overall in the whole budget of the european union at least a 10% decrease for next year. without a cut we are behaving like fat cats.
mr president, may i start by thanking derek vaughan for his work on this report. i am happy to support his call for a freeze in spending in 2013. this must be a first for a member of the labour party. in the uk they oppose every single measure the coalition government takes to reduce expenditure to clear up the mess they left britain in. i hope, mr vaughan, that your masters in london take note. a budget freeze is the minimum our citizens expect. i should like to see eu administrative expenditure cut year on year for the whole of the next seven-year period. we should, for example, abolish the useless european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. that would save the taxpayer money and reduce bureaucracy. we could also save money by having just one seat for this parliament and ending the wasteful monthly trek between brussels and strasbourg. we face austerity at home and our electors will be watching how we act. i urge members to support this report.
mr president, i would like to give my thanks and congratulations to mr vaughan for this report as well as my commendation to him for becoming the king canute of the 21st century, although king canute would have had a much easier task in stemming the sea than the task of stemming the tide of eu expenditure. in the middle of an economic and financial crisis and ongoing national budget and consolidation efforts the eu just does not want to see sense. it does not want to actually reverse expenditure but wants a freeze on inflation, which is probably still an increase. what we actually need is to withdraw expenditure and save taxpayers’ money. it needs to be by independent assessment. you have the daily allowances of eur 304 and there will be a significant number of meps – and some meps i see in this place right now – who sign in on a friday in strasbourg when there is no official business, stealing taxpayers’ money. that should stop. office allowances are only required to be 50% receipted. that should be 90% receipted and they should be independently audited, as mine is independently audited. if that money is not properly spent it should be returned. the house of history is a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money that should be stopped. end this extravagance and return taxpayers’ money.
mr president, on a point of order, in the previous debates on human rights, i had a timed speech and i also had a blue card, but you refused me a second blue card. but we had the previous speaker who had a timed speech and a blue card, and you also gave him a catch-the-eye. i would also note that the ppe group here has had several catch-the-eye speakers, even though i was the very first person to make a request. you need to have equality here. if you talk about equality and democracy, at least give some pretence of it in this chamber.
rapporteur. − mr president, i too would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all colleagues here this afternoon for their contributions. i am pleased that there does seem to be a broad consensus that we need to look to make savings in parliament in order to achieve a low increase in our budget, and i am sure the secretary-general is watching on television and taking note of this discussion. of course, there will be differences of opinion on how we achieve the savings and how much of a saving needs to be made. we have had examples today of differences over a single seat, the house of european history, staffing levels and translation costs: all differences between colleagues. another difference was the role of this working group that i have suggested. on that and other issues we have tried to be as flexible as possible, so all we are asking for in terms of the working group is that it be considered and the details sorted out at a later date. the aim of these guidelines is to strike a balance between the views of all colleagues in the chamber, and the aim at the end of the day will be to get as low an increase in parliament’s budget as possible whilst at the same time ensuring the effective running of parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i know commissioner barnier well. commissioner, you have no time for discrimination. i have known you for a very long time and i have seen you defend the principle of equality. therefore, i wish to urge you to go further. as you know, we need to take positive action in tackling this worldwide book famine for the blind and people who are visually impaired, in full respect of copyright legislation. parliament supports a binding treaty, organisations for the blind support a binding treaty, as do most countries. therefore, commissioner, i urge you to go forward. your record on the principle of equality of access is second to none, but blind people across the world are victims of a worldwide book famine. i do not believe that the creators of these works stand as a barrier to access. can we possibly imagine a world without access to the works of shakespeare, victor hugo and the countless others that enrich our very lives? i urge you to do all you can.
mr president, i welcome the motion for a resolution which has resulted from citizens petitioning and agree that we should ensure that books and other written documents are made accessible to our blind and partially-sighted citizens. the results of a recent study commissioned by the royal national institute for the blind revealed that a mere 15% of the top one thousand most popular books were made available in alternative formats. this is clearly limiting blind people’s access to written material. however, advances in technology are resulting in improved and expanded opportunities being made available to those currently disadvantaged by the absence of suitable print media. we need to ensure that appropriate technology is suitably funded so that blind and partially-sighted citizens can benefit at a reasonable cost from the new computerised solutions emerging. as we all begin to make the transition to electronic formats for our books, we need to ensure that suitable devices and computer applications for the blind are also being developed so that they too can participate in this new way of accessing literature.
mr president, i am pleased to support any initiative that empowers and enables physically-disadvantaged people, in this case the blind and partially sighted. the eu has been, in my opinion, insensitive to the needs of millions of blind and partially-sighted people. all member states and relevant institutions should make the strongest possible representations to the world intellectual property organisation in geneva in june for a full, binding treaty. this is the best way to ensure the fundamental right to read that is currently denied to far too many – apparently 300 million worldwide. put an end to this famine.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the purpose of the deposit guarantee scheme is to put an end to the scenes of queues of frightened customers, desperately trying to get their cash out of a failing bank and to stop banks having to be bailed out by taxpayers. i agree with this. we all want to give people confidence that their money is safe with a bank. i have supported the rapporteur in many key areas, such as risk-based contributions and the emergency payout period. banks must have proper computer systems for a rapid return of funds. parliament is right to fight for this. i recognise that there needs to be a level playing field across the single market, but i am concerned that this report will pull vital funds out of some of our economies. many governments share these concerns, including mario monti’s i understand. the question is how to pay out funds. the proposal forces banks to take the equivalent of one and half cents in every euro – or one and a half pence in every pound – away from lending to businesses and into supposedly safe investments, with unlimited investments allowed in sovereign debt. this fund, equal to 1.5% of deposits, may be enough in countries where there are many small banks, but it would not be enough in countries which have very concentrated markets and are dominated by huge players. that is why in the uk, for example, the government has gone further to protect depositors – but in a different way, with ring fencing, higher capital ratios and the right to pull in funds retrospectively. let me be clear. i completely support member states who want to introduce pre-funded schemes if that works for consumer protection in their market, but for this directive to work throughout, it must take account of the realities and differences in our national markets. while we will continue to support the rapporteur where we can, i hope he will take the opportunity to listen to the concerns of a number of different countries and work towards a better proposal supporting both the depositors and those in need of lending commitments from banks.
mr president, the aim of this directive is clear: to protect individuals’ deposits when an individual bank collapses, or even when the european banking system itself is failing. the crisis showed that this is an area where increased europe-wide coordination is necessary. during the worst of the crisis we saw capital move from individual banks in some countries to banks in different member states offering better deposit protection regimes, which added to the general turmoil. whether or not to pre-fund a deposit guarantee scheme is one of the outstanding issues. alternative schemes have worked effectively across many member states, even during the crisis. i therefore fail to see the justification for a solely pre-funded solution. we need to be more flexible in our approach. according to estimates by the uk treasury, to pre-fund 1.5% of all british deposits would amount to an excess of eur 15 billion being taken out of the economy. this would mean eur 15 billion less capital available to provide loans for small businesses. we need to recognise that alternative systems do – and should – continue to exist. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would like to thank mr giegold for the question. i am aware of all the different systems, but i guess my real concern here is that there is not one size that has to fit all. we can find different ways of doing this, and where member states have got effective systems in place – and there are many member states which do – we need to take into account the fact that their systems work effectively. so if it suits people to have pre-funded, fine; but if we need a mixed system, then that should also be fine. we should not have to fit everything into one box.
mr president, time and time again in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, when we have considered the alternative investment fund managers directive (aifmd), short-selling, the european market infrastructure regulation (emir) and now the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), we have dealt with the issue of the extraterritorial implications of us legislation. the european institutions have all stated their commitment to maintaining open markets in order to keep investment flowing around the world. however, we are yet to come up with a clear solution to the questions being raised tonight. as a result, we are having to insert clauses in our eu financial services legislation in order to give the eu equal weighting to the us in the regulation of financial entities and products. we have been forced to incorporate word-for-word in emir what i consider to be protectionist language from the dodd-frank act. this does not seem to be an optimal solution to this problem, but i cannot yet see an alternative to us regulatory overreach into european companies and markets. the implications of these extraterritorial provisions for access to and from our financial markets for asia, latin america and the rest of the world are yet to be seen, yet any solution that is proposed must above all else not just suit the us.
mr president, as the debate so far has shown, family reunification, of which i am a product – i joined my family in the european union as an immigrant – is something which is extremely important and fundamental, and i think eu law and regulations in this area understand that this is a fundamental right. it is a fundamental right to be joined by your family, but of course you cannot divorce it from the context of immigration to the european union. what we are doing today is perhaps not debating current eu migration policy but ensuring that we do not have the inconsistencies and unfairness that accompany the right for non-eu citizens who are already legally residing in a member state to be joined by their families. this is a basic human right, and we should always remember this. of course, the reality of the directive is that it is very imperfect. the discretion used by member states has been so wide as to create some unfair practices. this green paper, therefore, is a chance to strengthen the guarantee of family reunification to non-eu citizens, but we must have what mrs guillaume talked about in terms of a proactive approach by the commission to ensure that those inconsistencies, where they are deeply unfair, are ironed out. some member states have called for more restrictive conditions to be added to this directive in order to tackle fraud and abuse. we really need to assess all of this and to ensure that what we are delivering here are basic human rights, but obviously in a realistic context of immigration to the european union.
mr president, we know that this is a difficult debate. it was difficult the first time round. indeed at that time some of us who were in the house felt that the directive that we are currently discussing was too flexible and we launched a case before the ecj concerning a couple of the provisions of the directive. unfortunately, from the point of view of some of us, the ecj found in the wrong way, but nevertheless it upheld two of the issues, not least about children joining their families. so while there are those who argue that this directive is unnecessarily lax, i think that we can see within the directive how we look differently at issues of flexibility. at present four member states covered by the directive are using it in a more and more restrictive manner, despite the rulings of the european court of justice. i think that is an issue that the commission needs to look at. as someone said, the whole goal of this directive was in favour of family reunification as a measure of integration. integration measures were meant to be part of the goal, not a barrier to family reunification. we know about people being asked to take language courses abroad when those courses do not exist and we know about highly restrictive costs in terms of coming to join family members. all of these measures are put in place to actually erect barriers. i believe, and my group believes, that those certainly need to be challenged. we are also hearing a great deal about issues of marriage and whether marriages are genuine or not. this is of course incredibly difficult to determine, not least when you look at the divorce rates of some eu nationals. but, nevertheless, there are ways in which we can deal with this. some member states already have legislation in place on issues relating to forced marriage, rather than arranged marriage. the eu has programmes in third countries looking at the empowerment of young women and girls and indeed trying to change family attitudes on the issue. there are also measures that you can take at interview stage to try to establish whether it is a forced marriage or not. i am really interested that people are so concerned about this because a number of us in this house want to bring forward measures looking at the question of forced marriage. we look forward to support from some unusual sources in terms of women’s rights on this. there is flexibility in the directive. we know that. as i say, we have seen ecj rulings that have tried to put a limit on certain parts of the flexibility, but i think that, rather than looking to open up the directive, we need to ask the commission what it has been doing in terms of infringement proceedings. in 2008 they said this directive was inadequately transposed and inadequately implemented in a number of member states. what has happened since to improve that situation?
mr president, whatever the ostensible topic of debate in this house, the real objectives are first of all a steady incremental transfer of power from member states to the centre, and, secondly, a dilution, not only of our national identities, but also of a more general european identity. the title ‘europhile’ is most misleading. the rights to family life, to marry and to found a family, taken from the european convention, were not drafted to facilitate the colonisation of europe by the third world. the real objective of this directive is not to safeguard human rights; if it was, the eu would care about the peoples of europe who lose the chance of a house, or a job or see the areas in which they live transformed beyond recognition. these changes do not of course affect meps; they are doing rather well. a telling phrase in the wording of the question is: that member states have been left with too much discretion. this directive and this question are about more power to the centre, so that we can have more immigration beyond the headline figure which is fed to the electorate. is it desirable to reunify families? yes, by reversing the process by which they became divided.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, gmes has a vital role to play, particularly in the fight against climate change. it will deliver accurate scientific information about how climate change is affecting the planet, the land, the sea and the air. gmes will therefore be key to europe’s long-term security, so it is crucial to guarantee a stable financial framework for the future development of the programme. i am deeply concerned about the funding proposal from the commission putting gmes outside the next multiannual financial framework and making it subject to a voluntary intergovernmental agreement. that is no way to finance a strategic security project, and indeed we know that no intergovernmental agreement has yet been reached. we know that some member states have indeed expressed objections to paying for gmes from their national budgets, so how will the commission ensure that enough money is found, given the current national budget constraints? there is a further principle at stake here. climate change affects us all in different ways and all eu member states need access to gmes. it contradicts the principle of open access if those member states who pay more start demanding better conditions of use. gmes will lose its status as a european union flagship initiative, and it will lose its independence as well. so what are the alternatives? if gmes was within the mff then funding could come from the agriculture budget and the structural funds, as well as from horizon 2020. equally, innovative financing mechanisms such as project bonds could be explored, allowing private capital to be leveraged. the decision on how to finance gmes is in the hands of the commission and the council, so, commissioner, will you reconsider this question of how gmes is to be financed?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as vice-president of the parliament’s sky and space parliamentary intergroup, i fully support mr glante’s motion for a resolution on the future of gmes and i echo his comments. the primary aim of the european earth monitoring programme, gmes, is to provide information services which give access to accurate data and information in the fields of environment and security. in practice this means managing natural resources and biodiversity, observing the state of the oceans, monitoring the chemical composition of our atmosphere and providing essential support in the event of disasters such as tsunamis, famine, oil spills, etc., and very serious accidents. the role of the aid agencies is made infinitely easier when they can pinpoint the areas which need help. this is one of europe’s flagship space initiatives and we should be proud of what it has already achieved and what it can offer to all of us in the future. with this in mind, i cannot understand why the commission has indicated that gmes will be funded outside the multiannual financial framework. member states are already in great difficulty, and i have no confidence that they will come up with the goods. uncertainty with regard to future funding will be detrimental to hundreds of thousands of people, many high-tech, high-skilled jobs and a supply chain throughout europe which is growing and developing thanks to the project. commissioner, this parliament has consistently supported the commission’s position on the eu space programme, but you cannot chop and change and expect us to say nothing. in conclusion, europe’s future in space is of paramount importance, and we as meps have a responsibility to ensure that space policy remains high on the agenda. likewise, the commission has a responsibility to guarantee effective long-term governance and financial management of key eu space projects. if the commissioner does not want to listen to me, my colleague, the next speaker mr vladimir remek, was the eu’s first astronaut, so maybe the commissioner will listen to his comments. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think i did cover it in my remarks when i said i could not understand why the commission would remove the type of funding that it already has. i also did stress that member states already have huge difficulties, and i could not see them coming forward with additional funding for these products. ms ţicău is absolutely right because many member states could find themselves excluded from these huge programmes. yes, she is absolutely right, and this is why it is absolutely paramount that the budget stays within the confines of the european union.
mr president, the gmes programme is instrumental in allowing the eu to make real progress in developing a comprehensive space strategy. as others have said, the programme will give the eu the ability to directly monitor the earth and its atmosphere and will assist, when fully functional, in handling emergency management of natural disasters. the case for past investment through the eu budget was convincing, and i believe that it remains so. the programme has made real progress from purely r&d to an operational stage. we cannot risk putting further development of the programme in jeopardy with a proposed move for it to have to rely on intergovernmentanl funding. the current austerity measures being implemented in many member states would suggest that if this were a discretionary intergovernmental spend, it would not be incurred. in the field of r&d it is critically important that the eu budget is used so that longer-term investments are made today in order to fuel the economic competitiveness and growth of future years. it is one of the few programmes i continue to support, believing that investment at eu level will add value and will contribute to the formulation of sound, scientifically-based policies and, hopefully, generate commercial opportunities as the programme matures.
mr president, i just want to draw your attention to the fact that the first amendment on this report does not seem to have appeared on the séance en direct website this morning. it would normally appear there where it can easily be seen by all the assistants preparing the voting list. i am reliably informed that this is the first time this appears to have happened in the experience of our assistants in five years of preparing voting lists. not all members may be aware of its existence, and i wish to draw your attention to it. if you vote for this, then the whole of the rest of the motion falls. it is in support of the hungarians being free to determine their own constitution without pressure from the eu. i would like to say that, but also i would be very grateful if you could conduct an investigation and let us know why it did not appear properly this morning.
mr president, it is the first one. it is the epp amendment, the first thing that we are voting on.
mr president, i voted against the report on deposit guarantee schemes. while what the scheme hopes to achieve is clearly desirable for all member states, it is my view that the measures which have been proposed to reach these aims are neither suitable nor workable in practice. as a group, we do not consider it wise to demand that all member states impose such a high level of pre-funding, especially when our banks are trying to increase capital levels while minimising the withdrawal of credit to consumers. we believe that, rather than imposing a blanket scheme for all member states, it will be preferable for guarantee schemes and pre-funding levels to be tailored to the needs of the individual member states, according to their own circumstances. we feel that the one-size-fits-all proposals that the rapporteur puts forward are actually geared much more towards the banking system of his own country, germany, than they are towards the eu as a whole. it is this factor, coupled with the insistence on a high level of pre-funding – to be built up over a short period – which led us as a group, the ecr, to oppose this report.
mr president, the bail-out of the banks will one day be regarded as one of the most scandalous moments of the century. the sums are off the scale. in the united kingdom we spent gbp 1 trillion. we know where the money came from. we do not know where it is now; we do not know who has got it. what happened in the panicky days in the intermediate aftermath of the collapse of lehmans was a total loss of nerve. in their turmoil, politicians the world over turned for advice to the one lot of people who could not give them disinterested counsel, namely bankers. of course bankers suggested that the banks be bailed out. do you know what, if we had asked the bakers whether we should bail out the bakeries i suspect we would have got the same answer, and the bakers might have almost believed it – saying foodstuffs are an absolutely essential commodity, they are not like anything else, and so forth. but that is why we do not ask them; that is why we have representative government. there has now been this explosion of anger, which has taken the form of the occupying movements. i would just say to anyone protesting in those movements: the one thing you are not complaining about is capitalism. in a capitalist system, bad banks would have been allowed to fail; their profitable operations would have been bought by more successful competitors, shareholders and bondholders would have lost, and taxpayers would not have contributed a penny.
mr president, i voted against this report. yes, i agree that we need to focus on banks, but we need to focus on ensuring banks are able to raise their capital requirements and continue lending. we need to be focusing on freeing up capital for growth in europe. it may well be the case that some member states need to take action to support better-funded guarantee schemes, but this proposal is simply not proportionate. the 1.5% is not sensible and not suitable for my member state, the uk, and therefore unacceptable to my group. we must stop this ridiculous juggernaut of european financial regulation. mindless harmonisation is not the answer. it will not solve our problems. it is the action of busy fools, and i really do not look forward to being around when that becomes the accepted wisdom.
mr president, i welcome this report drawn up by my fellow welsh colleague derek vaughan on the guidelines for the 2013 budget, which covers all eu institutions apart from the commission. he has established in his own-initiative report the need for the eu to freeze these budgets. however, i would urge him and his colleagues on the committee on budgets to be bolder in order to seek a real-terms reduction in the overall eu budget. with the number of eu member states implementing harsh austerity measures and unemployment on the rise, standing at 8.9% in my own constituency of wales, it is only fair that the eu institutions play their part in curbing expenditure. unnecessary and wasteful excesses need to be identified and reduced and where possible eliminated, including addressing the politically taboo issue of a two-seat parliament. strasbourg and brussels symbolise the eu excesses which my constituents believe should stop and this question is covered by amendment 2, which was carried today. i hope that the formal negotiations on the mff are also able to be more bold in this regard.
(opening of speech missing as microphone not switched on) ... for the 2013 budget for the institutions other than the commission. we as a group welcome the budget freeze that was proposed, to be adopted by the institutions where possible, and are waiting now to see whether this will be an inflationary or a real-terms freeze. we do not believe that the report is yet perfect, but do believe that it will serve as a good starting point for future negotiations. we hope that, following these negotiations, the report will go further to keep the budgets under control, which is what is necessary in this european union.
mr president, the money has run out! the euro crisis has emptied our treasuries and exhausted our credit; and we are now talking about borrowing unbelievable sums, literally unimaginable sums: hundreds of billions, trillions of euros. there is nobody from whom to borrow it, so in practice what we are doing is borrowing it from future generations. in other words, the government is going to inflate away this debt through money printing. it has already happened in the us, it has happened in my country, and it is coming next to the european central bank. inflation is the coward’s way to close a budget deficit. unlike a tax rise or a spending cut for which the government is blamed, inflation is still seen by a number of voters as some kind of natural force, something that governments have to deal with, rather than something they create themselves. but in terms of its overall impact, it is far more damaging to the competitiveness and productivity of an economy. what i find most bewildering is the way in which people who defend our current levels of spending have appropriated the language of fairness. there is nothing fair about expropriating generations yet to come so that we can sustain our own standard of living.
mr president, i would like to welcome the vote. i very much welcome the beginning of a debate on the budget – it is about time we started addressing it sensibly. i particularly welcome the carrying of amendment 2 for the ending of this ridiculous travelling circus that results in our monthly flog here to strasbourg: something which i would very much like to do without. the single most frequent question i am asked by my constituents is: why is the ep not taking seriously the issue of austerity in the way that member states are having to? the joke is, of course, that some of the members here think they are. they need to go and have a look at what is happening in places like greece and see exactly what needs to be done. we need to take a very big slash to our budgets. this place is not an alternative source of funding for pet projects in member states that are not funded by member state governments.
mr president, sustainable fishing policy should be at the heart of all eu policy formulation in this area. the western stock of horse mackerel is of great economic importance to the eu, and so we need to ensure we do not risk depletion of its stocks in our waters. it is important that we develop a strategy based on the latest scientific evidence, which will provide the maximum sustainable yield, whilst keeping in line with the goals of the common fisheries policy. it is therefore sensible that this strategy is based on a rule of harvest control, looking at trends on where their eggs are abundant so that the sustainable exploitation of stocks can be achieved. it is for these reasons that i supported the joint resolution on a multiannual plan for the western stock of atlantic horse mackerel.
mr president, the problems of the common fisheries policy seem to go on and on and never seem to end. as they go on the problems also go on for the fishermen and the people who actually work on shore and depend on the industry. we have continuing disagreements between scientists and local fishermen as to who is right and who is wrong, and we never seem to be able to get to the end or have any control of it. the real answer is that we need more regional control in fisheries; we need more regional support to the local areas and less interference from the centre. it is time for common sense. fish are extremely important to everyone, and whenever something is blocked in council it must be unblocked at the earliest possible moment.
mr president, i too voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the multiannual plan for the western stock of atlantic horse mackerel. we believe that it is important that this internal dispute is sorted out as soon as possible, and thus we agree with the oral question asking the commission and the council how they intend to solve the institutional deadlock that has presented itself now. given that the decision taken by the commission and council will have a knock-on effect on other multiannual plans that are under discussion at the moment, it is important that it be taken quickly. we, as a group, agree with the aim of the report itself and we feel that it is important that the marine biomass of western horse mackerel is maintained at a level that will ensure that it can be exploited in a sustainable way and that will also ensure that it provides the highest possible long-term yield for our consumers.
mr president, i voted for this resolution because i am committed to restoring and then maintaining fish stocks at the levels that can produce maximum sustainable yields. this is with the aim of achieving the goals for depleted stocks on an urgent basis – and i stress the word ‘urgent’. where possible, we need to achieve this by 2015. this definitely needs to be unblocked in council so that this action can begin. it really throws into complete disrepute all our claims to be able to manage fishing in any kind of coherent and sensible way if we cannot even get the most simple measure passed through council quickly and efficiently and get on with the work that we are supposed to be doing to restore stocks.
mr president, with the cfp negotiations high on the eu’s political agenda, this joint motion for a resolution, on the contribution of the common fisheries policy to the production of public goods, makes some sensible assertions. we need to have a fisheries policy which keeps conservation and sustainability issues in mind, particularly as the current fisheries policy has failed to meet any of its targets. we also need to look at the contribution the entire sector makes to the local and european economies. the welsh fishing sector, although small, has a wider community impact, especially through the recreational and tourist sector and the extensive scientific research programmes being carried out around the welsh coastline. we need, however, to take care when discussing the inclusion of recreational fishing in the cfp reform process, as a symbiotic relationship between fishing and tourism in my constituency should not be damaged by the inappropriate application of fishery policies to recreational boats. despite this one reservation i support the overall motion.
mr president, the common fisheries policy has unfortunately failed the vast majority of fishermen throughout the european union. it is too cumbersome, too centrally controlled and does not give enough power to the regions. global sustainable fishing is for the public good, has always been for the public good and will continue to be for the public good. this is now being minimised because fish are a public good and fishing areas are being isolated. they are all in very isolated areas and they require our most urgent support. so i will call for the blockage to be unblocked and for this problem to be solved, because this is an urgent need for fishermen.
mr president, the growing discontent in russia is, beyond doubt, extremely concerning. this situation is not good for stability in either the short or the long term. i believe very strongly that the russian people deserve much better than they are receiving at present. we would all want to see free and fair elections. some say it will not happen. opposition parties must be given fair play, but above all i certainly hope all goes well for the russian people in the coming weeks and months. i wish them good elections, i wish them to be free and fair, and i sincerely hope that the electoral commission is able to oversee those elections rightly and properly.
mr president, i too voted, along with my group, the ecr, in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in russia. the current political situation in russia, following the duma elections held there in december of last year and the subsequent demonstrations at the end of that month, remains deeply worrying. in the ecr group we also feel it is important that the problems witnessed by the international observers of that election be addressed in order to avoid a similar situation next time elections are held. thus we believe, as a group, that it is now imperative that all opposition parties are allowed to be registered properly. once this has happened, we believe that future elections, in particular the imminent presidential one, should be held in a way that is deemed to be democratic, free and fair and also consistent with russian membership and obligations as a member of the council of europe and the osce.
mr president, the debate we have had about morocco has been one that has lasted for some considerable time. it has been long and intensive. i do realise that there are many issues in that particular area of the mediterranean and north africa that must be resolved. they are very complicated, difficult and they are down to trade and many other reasons, but we must continue to work with morocco in every way and show our willingness to cooperate with them. trade is never easy and trade between countries and trading partners is never easy. but, above all else, it has to be fair to both sides and it must be open. above all else it must meet certain standards – standards that we set down ourselves – and we in the european union cannot allow imports into the european union that do not meet the standards which we laid down within the european union.
mr president, it is probably extremely difficult for most of us to describe what we are witnessing in syria. we see it continuing night after night and day after day on our television screens and it must be condemned in the strongest possible terms and in the strongest possible way. there is absolutely no way we can condone or sympathise with it. while we cannot be the world’s policeman – and that is what i think we have to learn from events over recent years – we must offer what support we can. i have to say i was disappointed when the veto was used in the united nations because, at the end of the day, it is the people on the ground – as has been said – who suffer the most. i hope for wise counsel to prevail as soon as possible so that they can look forward to a better future.
mr president, along with my group, the ecr, i abstained in the vote on the oral question regarding blind persons’ access to books. i fully believe that easy access to books is a great opportunity that should be shared by everybody. the world of literature should not only be accessible to those who are sighted, nor should it only be sighted people who can access encyclopaedias, comic books, recipe books, dictionaries, etc. our group does not object in any way with the general aim of this report. the aspect of the report that forced us to abstain as a group was the demand for a binding treaty on the issue, which seems a little extraordinary. as noted in the resolution, eu negotiators have already opposed the adoption of a binding treaty. we do not believe that, in this instance, a binding treaty would be the best way forward. it should be a voluntary convention of some sort instead.
mr president, i fully support the right of blind persons to have access to every possible means that should be available to them, be it written, electronic or any other new means that i am not aware of. i know there are some problems with copyright and other issues, and i have listened to my colleague, mr tannock, explain what some of them are. i certainly feel they should be resolved and overcome at the earliest possible moment. we should not allow any bureaucratic problems to stand in the way of the rights of those who are visually impaired. i think this is something that we should all support in the best possible way.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the oral question on the future of the global monitoring for environment and security programme as we believe that it is a key part of the european space strategy in general. we believe that monitoring of the sea, land and atmospheric environment is extremely important and that gmes plays a vital role in this regard. we disagree with the commission’s proposal that further financing of the project should be done outside the financial framework for 2014 to 2020. we feel that such a move would seriously jeopardise the entire future of the project as well as rendering the investment that has been put into the project so far both pointless and worthless.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the formulation of common requirements applicable to deposit guarantee schemes will make it possible for member states to organise these schemes in as flexible a manner as possible while providing uniform protection, ensuring equal stability and avoiding distortions of competition. while maintaining the same coverage level and target level and abiding by the stipulated time limits for reimbursements and terms relating to the use of funds, member states will thus have the opportunity to adapt their deposit guarantee schemes to national features of financial markets. by means of this approach, effective protection of depositors will be achieved and the stability of the financial system ensured.
in writing. − i fully support this directive which aims to ensure that savers are compensated for the failures of the banks. protection for account holders is vitally important, especially given the events of the recent economic crisis with panicked scenes as customers attempted to withdraw their money from collapsing banks. customers must feel confident that their money is safe and i voted in favour of this directive because it will ensure that effective deposit guarantee schemes are in place in each member state.
in writing. − in the context of national austerity and budget consolidation efforts across europe, i am glad that, with the vote of thursday 16th february, the european parliament has shown self-restraint and responsibility in the guidelines for the eu 2013 budget. i support the proposed freeze in administrative spending for all institutions, which can surely be achieved through structural changes, reorganisation and getting rid of inefficiencies. i also welcome the proposed freeze on travel expenditure in 2013 and no indexation of all meps allowances. i am delighted that we seem to have an agreement to reject any new unforeseen building development project for our institutions until the end of the legislature. finally, i would like to recall that i remain convinced that one of the best and most efficient ways to make savings in the parliament budget would be to adopt a single seat for this house, in brussels and this is the reason why i signed and supported the amendment tabled to that effect by a group of meps from all political groups.
in writing. − i welcome this report calling for the secretary-general to come forward with proposals for an independent evaluation of parliament’s budget.
in writing. − i support amendment 5 as i oppose the concept of pan-european political parties, not only on the grounds of cost but because i question their democratic integrity.
in writing. − the western stock of horse mackerel is economically the most important stock of horse mackerel inhabiting union waters. it is important to remind ourselves that under the terms of the plan of implementation adopted at the united nations world summit in johannesburg in 2002, the european union is committed to maintaining or restoring fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield, with the aim of achieving the goals for depleted stocks on an urgent basis and where possible not later than 2015. this must also apply to horse mackerel stocks.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which underlines that the existence of healthy fish stocks and healthy marine ecosystems and the preservation of marine biodiversity are in themselves common goods which are only produced if fish stocks are being managed in a sustainable way and unnecessary negative impact on the environment is minimised.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls, in the joint interest of hungarian citizens and the european union, on the hungarian government to comply with the recommendations, objections and demands of the european commission, the council of europe and the venice commission regarding their legislation’s compatibility with – notably – the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the central bank and the independence of the data protection authority and for fair conditions of political competition and to amend the laws concerned correspondingly, respecting the basic values and standards of the european union
in writing. − undoubtedly questions remain as to the freedom of the electoral process in russia and whether the democratic process and result are free from interference from third parties. while we recognise that russia has come a long way from the dark days of communism, we recognise too that progress still remains to be made. of course there is an irony in the eu lecturing russia about the fundamentals of democracy and the need for utmost integrity in the electoral process. ask the people of greece, or of italy, if their democratic voice has been respected by the eu and the answer will be a resounding no. both countries today have leaders and decision of brussels’ liking, not of their own. that democratic right, that precious vote, has been cast by the wayside by the eu, democracy ran roughshod over by those clinging to the failed euro zone project. yes progress must be made in russia, but the eu is not the example to follow.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly condemns the adoption by the legislative assembly of st petersburg of a law against propaganda on sexual orientation. it equally condemns similar laws adopted in the ryazan, arkhangelsk and kostroma regions and calls on all russian authorities to stop restricting freedom of expression in relation to sexual orientation or gender identity, in line with the european convention on human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. it also calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative to convey the european union’s opposition to these laws
in writing. − in addition to my concerns about the conduct of the recent parliamentary election i am alarmed by the ongoing incarceration of mikhail khodorkovsky. many eminent experts and organisations have declared his second trial to fall well short of accepted international standards of due process. amnesty international has declared khodorkovsky a prisoner of conscience. the blatant political interference in his trial reflects serious deficiencies in the rule of law in today’s russia. it is right that we make known our dismay at russia’s apparent unwillingness to accept its obligations under international law with regard to civil and political rights.
in writing. − my constituency of london is home to a number of russians who have sought political asylum to escape the putin and medvedev regimes. thousands more have left their homeland for the uk as business exiles. since vladimir putin became president of russia in 1999, no elections in the country have been recognised by western observers as free and democratic. at the most recent duma elections in december the osce witnessed blatant fraud, including the unashamed stuffing of ballot boxes. corruption in russia is endemic, with bribes accounting for 20% of the country’s gdp. i am also increasingly concerned about abuses of human rights and restrictions on the freedom of expression, including the unexplained deaths of journalists. things must change in russia. russia must strengthen democracy and the rule of law and ensure that fundamental rights are respected. the country must also become a more responsible actor on the international stage. russia’s recent defence of bully-boy client states like syria is deplorable, and moscow must join the international community in condemning the assad regime and all those with ties to it.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution on morocco, which in relation to western sahara ‘calls on the commission to ensure that the future agreement fully respects international law and benefits all the local population groups affected’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting consent to the agreement between the eu and morocco on reciprocal liberalisation measures on agricultural and fisheries products on thursday 16th february 2012 as i believe that, on balance, it will bring new opportunities for european states exporting to morocco. i continue to have reservations as regards the human rights situation in western sahara and i hope that this agreement will be beneficial for the people in this region. on balance, given the current political situation in the kingdom of morocco and the southern mediterranean area, i believe that the eu should strengthen its trade relations with these countries in order to improve the local populations’ economic situation and well-being, especially in primary sectors such as fisheries and agriculture. moreover, it should be borne in mind that this agreement represents only a marginal opening of the market for sensitive eu agricultural products such as tomatoes (statistically, the extra 52 000 tonnes of tomatoes allowed to enter the eu tariff-free only represent 0.65% of the eu’s current tomato production).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the kingdom of morocco concerning reciprocal liberalisation measures on agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products, the replacement of protocols 1, 2 and 3 and their annexes and amendments to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part.
in writing. − the eu has a certain responsibility to use its trade and economic capabilities to aid the transition of these countries towards democratisation. i believe that trade liberalisation and progressive integration into the eu’s internal market will help to alleviate the widespread poverty and unemployment in the region, trade and investment being proven engines for growth. it is our hope that such an agreement would also help to bring people together and to secure ties between nations. it is worth pointing out that whereas only 5% of eu citizens are employed in agriculture, 38% of the moroccan workforce is employed by the sector. this agreement does not just bring benefits to morocco but also creates significant advantages for the eu. it will provide significant opportunities for the eu’s agricultural industry, particularly in processed foods, and it is estimated that, eventually, up to eur 100 million will be saved in customs duties once moroccan import tariffs for 70% of agricultural and fisheries product lines have been removed. given that access to the eu’s internal market is conditional on meeting hygiene and safety standards and that a strong dispute settlement mechanism has been agreed that would allow the eu to gain redress if morocco does not respect the terms, i back this agreement.
in writing. − in adopting this resolution, the european parliament is showing that there is growing unity and strength against the syrian regime. bashar al-assad’s leadership is completely discredited both at home and abroad. his proposal to submit a new constitution to a referendum in a nation at war is inconceivable. those responsible for the continuing systematic killing of civilians and massive human rights violations should be brought to justice and held accountable for their deeds.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, in which the european parliament reiterates once more its call on eu member states to further lead by example in supporting the universality of the work of the human rights council, notably in ratifying all international human rights instruments which it has established. it regrets in particular that no eu member state has ratified the convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, that several member states have not yet adopted and/or ratified the convention for the protection of all persons from enforced disappearance and that only one member state has ratified the optional protocol to the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, and reiterates its call to all eu member states to ratify these.
in writing. − i very much welcome the debate in the parliament this week on increased access to books for blind people. to be able to lift the latest novel or political biography is something many of us take for granted. yet at present over 95% of published books are not available in accessible formats for visually impaired and print-disabled persons in europe. in the rest of the world over 99% of reading material is unavailable for tens of millions visually disabled persons. despite the vast improvements in print technology in recent years, little progress has been made towards increasing access to books for the visually impaired. a major obstacle to this is the rigid copyright laws that apply to so many titles. therefore i would wholeheartedly support an international treaty at the world intellectual property organisation to establish an international exception and limitation to copyright to facilitate the cross-border movement of reading material formatted for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution. blind people and visually-impaired people across the world are victims of a worldwide book famine. we need to take positive action in tackling it.
in writing. − parliament’s call for an international binding treaty to allow blind and dyslexic people in the eu to access books has my strong support because the current voluntary agreement in place does not go far enough. accessible formats like braille, large print and audio should be readily available according to this important resolution. the lack of publications available to blind and visually impaired people restricts the independence of these citizens and has a negative cultural and social impact throughout the eu.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which says that the ep is seriously concerned about the practices employed by certain companies which persist in exploiting the terms of the eu-israel association agreement by exporting goods produced in the occupied territories and deplores this practice and considers that it flies in the face of the eu’s international policies and represents an abuse of the extensive opportunities for legitimate preferential access to the union's internal market. it therefore calls on the commission to draw up a blacklist of companies which persist in employing these practices and to inform the member states. it also recalls that in its judgment in the brita gmbh v hauptzollamt hamburg-hafen case, the european court of justice confirmed that the customs authorities of importing member states must refuse preferential treatment under the eu-israel association agreement to products exported to the eu which originate from israeli-occupied territories and for which the israeli authorities fail to provide sufficient information to enable their real origin to be determined.
in writing. − the arab spring is a great challenge and an equally great opportunity for the eu in its relationship with the southern neighbourhood. our southern neighbours are demanding concrete responses from us that facilitate their brave, but uneasy, journey towards freedom and democracy. the high representative and the commission correctly identified this dossier as a priority within this response framework, as stated in the joint communications of 8 march 2011 on ‘a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean’ and of 25 may 2011 on ‘a new response to a changing neighbourhood’. all in all, the adoption of the convention represents one of the tools to ensure the maximum impact of trade and investment in the region.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which disagrees with the direction that the commission indicated in its communication as regards the future financing and government of gmes, the aim being intergovernmental funding of the project and expresses concern that this direction will be hugely detrimental to the future development of the programme, cause the programme to lose its european dimension, contradict the principles of transparency and full, open and equal access for all, and be seen as a sign of disengagement by the eu from this flagship initiative.
author. − mr president, this debate is inspired by the fact that the new justice minister in japan has indicated that he intends to end the moratorium on the use of the death penalty and to resume executions in japan. i agree with the previous speaker that the european union and japan have close and strong relations, we are partners in many areas of development and in the world, and we speak to the japanese in this case as friends. we say to them that as a european union we can never support the use of the death penalty. in modern japan the death penalty has no place. we very much welcome the fact that there have been no executions in japan since july 2010. i consider it real progress if japan moves towards abolition. that is why the minister’s statement was so disappointing. i would hope that the japanese government will continue the work they have begun, with a study group in the ministry of justice which is examining the death penalty, and i hope they will listen to the strong abolitionist movement which exists in that country. there is no place in any modern state to take the lives of its own citizens. i urge japan to consider abolishing the death penalty as soon as possible.
author. − mr president, the end of the death penalty has been achieved in 96 countries across the world and only 23 countries actually carried out executions in 2010. to see any reduction in the numbers of legal killings is encouraging but hearing about the possibility that executions in japan will restart under a new minister of justice is a matter of great disappointment both for me and for my political group, the greens, who are completely opposed to the death penalty. according to reports from amnesty and the un committee on torture, most of those people sentenced to death in japan have given confessions under extreme duress. that duress could include physical abuse or sleep deprivation or denial of food and water and the use of a toilet and not being told of the date of their execution until the day itself arrives. but the death penalty is not fail-safe. you cannot acquit someone if they have already been killed. so i think the death penalty is abhorrent and cruel; it degrades both japanese society and morality and it further punishes the prisoners’ families, who are innocent of any crime. so please join us in voting for a moratorium and the reactivation of the japanese study group to stop death penalties.
mr president, there is slight confusion on my part because i thought there was a motion for a resolution from the efd before the joint resolution. we appear to have voted on only one resolution, so there is some confusion. could you clarify, please?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i firstly start along with you in offering our sincere condolences and best wishes to all those who were affected by the catastrophic events in japan a year ago. many of the nearly 90 000 residents who were evacuated in the weeks after the disaster are still reluctant to return to their home towns, where radiation in some areas measures roughly 25 times the level for evacuation in the first place. the unprecedented events in japan and the impact of the earthquake and tsunami on the fukushima nuclear power plant have raised the profile of nuclear safety and led to questions around the world about the need for nuclear power. we take what happened at fukushima very seriously and nuclear safety is, and must be, a top priority. there are lessons for both government and industry on how we continuously improve both existing and new-built nuclear power stations. following fukushima the stress tests and investigation need to be robust and evidence-based so that the right lessons are learnt. we must remember that the fukushima incident showed that two natural disasters can happen at the same time. the nuclear power plant could withstand the earthquake, but could not cope with a 20-metre-high tsunami that caused the power supply to the plant to cut off. here it is important to learn the lessons from the japanese response to the crisis. preparedness and disaster response capacity for an event of this scale should be constantly under review as part of an evolving process that takes account of the individual specific site. we must praise the brave emergency teams who brought the situation under control, but there were clearly issues that the authorities and tepco could and should have handled differently. the events at fukushima were a shock to us all, but i am confident that the reaction was, and still should be, sensible, proportionate and based on the facts. as the commission is currently reviewing the eu’s legal framework, we would urge it to take fully into account the lessons from fukushima and the stress tests; a rushed piece of legislation could have negative consequences for both safety and energy security. regulators and industry should work together to ensure that we make continuous improvements to the nuclear safety of both existing and future nuclear power plants. after all, nuclear safety is paramount and should be at the top of our agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, there is a saying that less is more, and this is very appropriate for this report. there is much in the report to give credit for. there is an equal amount i feel should not be tackled here but best dealt with at member state level. last week we held international women’s day and during the day a film called ‘made in dagenham’ was played. those of us who saw the film could not fail but be impressed by the women’s struggle to gain equal pay and the demand for a level playing field in the workplace. forty years on, women in europe are still struggling for equality in certain areas of life. as a woman i believe women have the right to real choices in their lives. as a conservative politician i have a duty to work towards this objective. i strongly support the calls in this report to put a stop to domestic violence and other crimes against women, including forced marriages and female genital mutilation. on the matter of forced marriages i am proud that my government in the uk is looking to criminalise this cruel practice but i do not believe that legislative quotas and rules on maternity leave should be made at eu level. leave this to the individual member states who know their men and women best. i admire the report’s bold statements about same-sex families and the rights of lesbians and gay men as a further move towards equalities in all areas. with reference to the report on women in politics, i will be honest and open about the fact that in 2009, during the european elections, the leader of my party imposed temporary, positive measures to encourage and help women become meps. this experience taught me that positive measures work best when they are implemented at member state level and on a temporary basis. the eu is not the right body to be making permanent legislation on quotas for our political parties, businesses or any other sector for that matter. it is with regret, therefore, that i will be unable to support this report.
madam president, totalitarians who might be shy about interfering with the elective process can still do so indirectly by controlling the selection process by which candidates are chosen; that was the essence of democratic centralism in the soviet union. the call for quotas and for prescriptions of rank order is in danger of constructing a formula that is so prescriptive that the real selection decision is taken by the formula deviser and not by the political party. in a democracy, political parties are private organisations and are not creatures of the state; they must be free to decide who should represent them as candidates without state interference. it is for the electorate to decide whether or not it likes the candidates and not for the government to do so. parties, in my view, should decide candidates on merit, and neither on the basis of discrimination nor on the basis of quotas. but in the end that is their business. prescribing rank order, of course, is possible only in closed-list systems. how long will it be before the voter in open-list systems is forced to cast high-preference votes for both male and female candidates regardless of party and to cast appropriate percentages of the vote for various approved minorities? perhaps in the end the poor voter will have the right only to cast a ballot paper that has already been completed by affirmative action or positive discrimination. this drive for quotas has little to do with women’s rights and everything to do with an obsessive desire that no part of the political system should be free from control by the political class.
madam president, figures show that the pay gap between men and women is still large. after all these years of eu gender equality regulations, targets, and initiatives, the situation is still pretty poor. and now you want to introduce quotas for women in boardrooms. to be perfectly honest, when i read it, i did not know whether to laugh or to cry. because, if a women is dedicated and good she can get to the top. did margaret thatcher need quotas to become the british prime minister? no, she did not. she did it based on raw ability, an iron will and because she was the best person for the job. when you bring in quotas you lessen quality. you promote mediocrity and i contend that businesses should have the right to hire the best person for the job and it should not matter whether they are male, female, black or white or anything else. it is called a meritocracy and it is something which britain and the english-speaking peoples of the world have been pioneering for centuries. how would you feel, if you were a women who had worked very hard and had gone into management, only for a token woman to be handed a similar job? if anything, this will create a culture of discrimination. as colleagues will constantly ask, did you get there because you are good or did you get there because you ticked a few boxes? you call this positive discrimination. i contend that discrimination is never positive. so here we have it. in a desperate bid to sound popular you are not only patronising women, you are promoting mediocrity and you are hampering business. i would urge all members to vote against this report tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – if a woman is good enough, she will be promoted. it is as simple as that. what we should have is a situation where we are not hampering business with regulation in times of austerity. what we should be doing is ripping up red tape and allowing businesses to hire the best person for the job, not introducing even more ‘big state’ legislation and tying the hands of businesses. no, let us do the opposite. let us deregulate and let us ensure that the best person for the job gets it, regardless of gender, colour, creed, religion or anything else. the best person should always get the job. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – no i would not; but i would not say that women would probably do a better job. hang on – the greatest monarchs that we have ever had in our country have been women. undoubtedly! probably our greatest prime minister of the last century was a woman. it is as simple as that. but she got there – and the labour party probably does not like that fact, but there we are – purely on merit because she was the best person for the job. i tell you that, if you go down this line, all you are doing is tying the hands of businesses in times of austerity. it is wrong! you should deregulate. you should do away with red tape and give businesses the freedom to hire the people they want.
madam president, i am pleased to see as many men as women speaking in this important debate this evening, because it is only if we address this issue together that we can make equality a reality. inequality can be seen in persistent wage gaps, unequal opportunities and also, sadly, in the continuing violence against women in all its forms. the statistics on violence against women are terrifying and shame every single one of us. we should address what happens to a woman as if it were happening to us. if that violence or that inequality is wrong for us, then it is wrong for the woman – it is wrong for the other. violence is often targeted against women because they are different – because they are lesbian, bisexual or transgender. some countries in the european union today still require transgender women to undergo full sterilisation simply to be who they are. that is unforgiveable. women deserve a safe, strong and equal place in our society, regardless of whether they are lesbian, gay, straight, bisexual or transgender. the exclusion of women from politics and the economy remains the norm around the world. as was said before, all the directors of the european central bank are men. let me finish by saying that the slow pace of change in 2012 is depressing. the fact that we are still having this debate now means that we are not achieving. the economic crisis is being used as an excuse to do less and to abandon our values. now is the time to reinforce those values, not abandon them. finally, women with the same opportunities are able to achieve in exactly the same way, but we must challenge the stereotypes of women that are being promoted, often by men and sadly by some religious organisations. women are equal. it is as simple as that. we have to have the political will to make that simple fact a reality.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there are some colleagues in the room who have been pointing at me and gesturing as other comments have been made regarding the united kingdom’s position on this. can i start off by saying, first of all, my very sincere thanks to our colleague mr lechner for the tremendous amount of hard work that he has put into this dossier over a period of about two years or so? i thank him for everything he has done in making sure that he has made his contribution and i wish him well for whatever he chooses to do after he leaves us. he is going to be missed. can i also echo the comments that were made by mr lechner about the timing of debates that take place in this house? this debate is significantly overrunning. no fault of yours, mr president, but the fact of the matter is i was due to meet with mr lidington, the united kingdom minister for europe, this evening. this was one of the issues i wanted to discuss with him. that is not now going to happen. can i also express my real disappointment at the decision in the council whereby the uk and ireland found themselves in a position where they did not feel they were able to opt into this regulation? i have always said that the lack of an opt-in is always going to be very theoretical because the practical effects will remain and will be very real for many eu citizens. for instance, more than 15% of successions that have been carried out in the united kingdom had a cross-border element: 3.1% of the uk population comes from another eu member state and i consider that the failure to resolve the issue of clawback is a fundamental flaw in the final regulation as it will close off its benefits to a huge number of citizens from other member states who happen to be living in the uk and ireland, and conversely the large numbers of expat uk citizens spread throughout europe. i note that there remain concerns within delegations in the council regarding other aspects of the regulation such as the provisions relating to administration. practices vary widely across the european union in this area, and we must consider whether the final article agreed between parliament and council will meet the needs of citizens and practitioners from all member states. may i suggest finally that a second reading, even if very short, would allow us a period to refocus and approach the difficulties that still remain with a freshness of mind, because quite clearly it is in the interests of all of us, this house and the commission, to see if we can resolve the difficulties that we set out to resolve at the outset.
mr president, this regulation is the thin end of yet another wedge. the danger is that it will lead to an eu law of property ownership. an eu certificate of succession is a short step away from a european probate registry and the introduction of an eu property tax. now, i doubt that many people in england realise that we are debating the eu’s intention to take control of inheritance law. the one good thing i can say about this is that the british government has exercised its opt-out. it has not done that out of any principle – it does not have any any principles where the eu is concerned and there is only so much that you can get past the british public at any one time. what amazes me is not that they have opted out but that there was ever any serious intention of opting in. i was going to address myself to the meps here but as there are so few of them it is quite a redundant statement this evening. anyway, some meps might like to consider the wisdom of handing yet more control to the eu in this area and vote with meps from the uk independence party against it.
mr president, the commission intends to impose a new interpretation of the weight and dimensions of hgvs to allow for cross-border traffic of mega trucks. this measure would allow mega trucks into the uk through the back door because in the end the government will surrender to a ruling on competition grounds. in making this decision, no research to assess the safety, congestion and pollution impact has been taken. in 2009 the commission stated that mega trucks are more dangerous than standard hgvs. the commission is not even waiting to analyse the public consultation, which only closed in february. of course the commission interpretation will become a minimum standard and so lorries could get bigger, even beyond the 25 metres. this will surely have a massive impact on safety and cost to the british taxpayer. for example, how many bridges up and down the country in the uk will have to be reinforced to accommodate these heavier loads? this just shows you the power that these unelected eu commissioners have. no one voted for them, and yet they can make unilateral decisions, off the cuff, which will affect local areas and businesses right across the uk.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am becoming increasingly concerned that a sort of corrupting complacency is starting to take hold in eu corridors of power. many seem to now believe that the worst of the crisis is over. after all, we have signed the new treaty to solve it all, and some are implying that europe is really ok; the only problem is that a few mediterranean countries have a problem with their public finances and it is nothing that the new treaty cannot put right. well, europe is not ok. the underlying economic weakness is a problem shared by the whole of our continent and the new treaty is simply an irrelevance to most of it. i am pleased to say that two member states, both from parties led by my group, have been honest enough to say that there is no point in signing this treaty. others have signed it and have indicated that they do not really believe that it applies to them. before the ink was even dry on the treaty, spain and the netherlands said that they were not going to comply with its provisions. the european council has wasted considerable energy on a treaty that will make no practical difference to the fundamentals, whilst taking decisions at the same time that will condemn the greek people to a generation of poverty. greece now faces the prospect of one of the longest recessions in recorded history, a collapse in living standards and levels of unemployment unseen in europe since the 1930s. the solution of course is not easy and it is not without cost, but a new course must surely now be followed. measures are required so that greece can organise an orderly default, but a default that needs to be complemented by leaving the euro so that devaluation can save its economy in the short term, while structural reforms are taken to rebuild it in the medium term. but the complacency shown when it comes to the fundamental state of the eu economy is equally profoundly shocking. there was a letter, signed by 12 heads of government, from three political families in this house, which was presented to the council. it was an opportunity to relaunch a constructive growth agenda in europe, but the initial reaction was very cool, as you know, mr van rompuy. surely, the time has now come for you to stop behaving as if council communiqués have been delegated to the foreign ministries of france and germany. why did you not immediately face the opportunity to focus on a positive forward-looking agenda for real economic growth? perhaps when you asked the council to put jobs on the agenda you were in fact only referring to yours – congratulations on your reappointment, by the way. mr barroso, should this not be the kind of growth agenda that is the centre piece of the work of your commission and should define its purpose? is that not what we were promised? the global competitive challenge requires a determined policy response from the whole commission, not just from one or two commissioners who understand what is at stake. perhaps the commission should spend a little more time on pursing real reform and a little less time on producing silly, racist, martial arts videos. i hope that you will also take this opportunity to condemn sunday’s remarks from the president of france calling for restriction, calling for more protectionism on trade. we should be abolishing trade barriers, not erecting more of them. apparently last week president sarkozy also said that there are too many foreigners in france. well i am a foreigner in france and i say to him that i would be very happy not to have to come back to this parliament in france every month – and it is his government that actually makes us come here in the first place. there are several hundred foreigners who would be very happy not to come back to france every month if that is really what president sarkozy wants. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i must congratulate our colleague on coming round to the ukip position. we have been saying for many years now that greece would be better off leaving the euro and going back to the drachma. but this is not the position of his government and it is certainly not the position of the chancellor of the exchequer, george osborne. does my colleague agree or disagree with the position of the british government? does he agree with the position of the chancellor of the exchequer that more fiscal union is needed and that greece would be better off in the euro or is his position completely different from that of his own government?
blue-card answer. – firstly, of course, i am happy to say that i am not a spokesman for the british government, but i think that george osborne has made the position very clear. the matter of whether greece stays within the euro is a matter for greece itself to decide and i actually agree with that position. i can have an opinion on whether it is wise for them to stay in the euro or not and i have expressed that opinion, but the actual fundamentals of it are for them themselves to decide, for elected politicians in greece to make that decision. i believe in national democracy in these respects.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i see that mr van rompuy is back for another two-and-a-half years, no doubt a reward for his great success. indeed, mr van rompuy, listening to you, i thought perhaps i had got it all wrong. you talked about how positive the last council meeting had been, that we have reached the turning point, that everything is going swimmingly, and i was beginning to believe it. and then i realised that you did not mention the d word: default. no, that cannot be talked about. we pretend there has not been a default when we know in fact that in greece last week there was a very major credit event. indeed, listening to all of you this morning reminds me of the great british comedy classic carry on up the khyber, where the colonial english go on having dinner, ignoring the fact that impending disaster is all around them. you are determined but delusional in this attempt to keep the euro propped up. and whilst you are enjoying your dinner, incoming shells are landing all around you: youth unemployment in greece went through 50% last week. that is fine, carry on, serve the main course. and you will have seen yesterday that 110 german bondholders of greek bonds are now going to take legal action against the banks and against the greek government. but do not worry, chaps; carry on; everything is going to be fine. but perhaps the biggest bombshell is the german finance minister saying just yesterday that nobody can exclude a third bail-out. pass the port. do enjoy the party. it is a farcical situation, and why is it happening? that is what people in europe want to know. why is this happening? is this being done to help greece? no. it is going to crucify greece. it is being done to prop up a failing project because you know that once greece goes, others will go as well. and some of the language is telling. mr barroso, when leaders stand up and say that political moves are irreversible, history has one lesson: you are always, always, going to be proved to be wrong.
mr president, last week the british government’s joint committee on national security strategy warned that ministers should draw up plans to deal with the break up of the eurozone. this important committee warned of economic instability, political unrest on the continent and a rise in the number of economic migrants fleeing the chaos of the eurozone and arriving at our borders. in the current crisis illegal immigration has become such a problem that – as we have heard many times this morning – this week, president sarkozy has threatened to withdraw france from the schengen agreement. in the long term, the committee has stated that eurozone countries may be unable to maintain their national defences, jeopardising the security of europe and the integrity of nato. this is how the eu’s damaging fiscal policy is viewed by the real world.
mr president, the series of european summits we have seen since may 2010 has taken place against the backdrop of massive protests against cuts in public spending and job losses, and yet the result of this march council has shown once again that government leaders are focused on spending cuts as the way forward. we all know the magnitude of this crisis but i believe that crisis demands radical rethinking; it is a time to seize new opportunities, to learn from past mistakes and make sure that we do not repeat them. the european economy has to be put on a path that will equip it for future challenges, for example investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects that we know will create thousands of sustainable jobs as well as protecting the environment. we need a long-term plan for financial, social and environmental recovery. but the response that we have now is one in which the costs are borne by the most vulnerable in society, those least responsible for causing such havoc in the economy. it is unacceptable that young people in particular feel more excluded and rejected instead of being encouraged to play a full part in building the kind of europe that we want to see. we have to show solidarity with all the people of europe. i know from my constituency in wales that we have also have an awful lot to do to restore trust and confidence in the eu. to do this we need a real programme investing in people, jobs and infrastructure to kick-start economic recovery.
mr president, at a future time of financial stability it will be appropriate that all measures as defined in the original stability and growth pact are adhered to by all governments. however, when parliament discussed the economic governance package of legislation, this house also acknowledged that sanctions and fines only work once countries have returned to a path of stability, already in conformity with the stability and growth pact, and above all have returned to economic growth. it is therefore disingenuous of the commission to overrule the new government of spain when it comes to the implementation of the agreed structural reforms and their corresponding deficit reduction. if the spanish government’s statement about the 2011 deviation of two and a half percent of the public deficit, together with drastically changed economic growth forecasts, will make the previously set target unachievable then why will the commission not revisit the targets? at a time of crisis targets should be fluid and amended as appropriate, given changing economics. we need to give member states that are truly committed to the reform programme the time and leeway to meet the longer-term competitiveness goals in the best way for them. each member state will need to take specific measures to return to economic health and should not be sacrificed – in the words of the euro group president mr juncker – to maintaining the credibility of new eu rules.
mr president, the treaty on fiscal discipline is not concerned with the wellbeing of its signatories, but with the wellbeing of the euro and, of course, the project. this so-called ‘treaty’ seeks to impose a fiscal and monetary straitjacket that takes away the sovereignty of voters in member states and the eurozone. it addresses the problem of sovereign debt, but with inflexible diktats, rather than with practical solutions. its cure for economic undernourishment is to put the countries of the south on a starvation diet of economic austerity that is reducing incomes and raising unemployment and will make balancing the budget even more difficult. with an overvalued currency, employment is the only thing they can export. the ailing economies of the south need to leave the eurozone, revert to their own currencies and devalue. that will enable them to enjoy export-led expansion. they also need to reflate their economies by government-directed investment financed by quantitative easing and not borrowing. this would not of course be possible within the eurozone.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the globalisation adjustment fund has been a complete failure. every year the commission takes eur 500 million of taxpayers’ money and sprinkles it about in the vain hope of being seen to do something about job losses. the functioning of this fund has been appalling. it is bureaucratic and inefficient with the commission making up the rules as they go along. in 2009 we had the ridiculous situation of the commission paying money to ireland because dell had relocated to poland. that is not globalisation. that is the single market working. i wholeheartedly support the british, czech and other governments who are blocking the extension of this absurd fund. rather than pouring this money down the drain, we should return it to the taxpayers, who will spend it far more wisely than the european union ever could.
madam president, yesterday, only a matter of hours after we marked our remembrance of victims of terrorism, an extremist fuelled with religious hatred and intolerance carried out a terrorist attack, destroying by fire a religious place of worship in brussels, killing the religious leader of a whole community. the religious leader leaves behind a young family, and our thoughts are with them. rising intolerance from a whole spectrum of thought in europe should concern us all. today we send a clear message that we reject such intolerance. when criminal extremists carry out such terrorist attacks it is our values they seek to destroy, and we will stand united to face them, whoever they are and whatever the cancerous hate and division that they may preach. (loud applause)
madam president, the european convention on human rights says that in determination of criminal charges everyone is entitled to a fair and impartial hearing. this is a pre-judicial hearing and the accused is not being heard. that is neither fair nor impartial.
madam president, this report on the authentic instruments in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession seeks to give legal clarification that the law of one eu member state can apply in the case of when a deceased person owns property in more than one member state. i am, however, unable fully to support it. i am particularly concerned with the issue of clawback, which raises uncertainty in a person’s estate, suggesting that their decisions pre-death may not be final. in england and wales we operate a system where the individual has the right to decide the apportionment of their estate. importantly, this gives individuals the right to freely choose whether they would like to give a portion of this to a charity, for example, after their death. no eu legislation should interfere with this personal decision.
madam president, along with my group, the ecr, i abstained on the lechner report on jurisdiction and matters of succession and on the creation of a european certificate of succession. we agree with the report for the most part but found it difficult to agree on the clawback mechanism as this mechanism is alien to the legal system and traditions in england and wales which i represent. we would be concerned, were it introduced, that it would adversely affect charities in the uk as it would affect the certainty with which they can view donations. the clawback mechanism applies retrospectively. there is potential for gifts or donations given to charities during the lifetime of a benefactor then being annulled by their legal heirs upon the benefactor’s death. given the council’s refusal to allow an exception on this point for the uk, we felt in the ecr that we could not opt into this regulation.
madam president, we are again reminded of the difference between the common law system that prevails in england and ireland, and the roman or bonapartist model which prevails across most of the rest of the continent. our system tends to exalt individual freedom and property rights over whatever notion of collective good, and this difference in succession laws is a neat illustration. to simplify, our system allows you far more leeway over bequeathing your property to whomever you like without the state coming in and declaring your will illegal. naturally enough, this report follows the prevalent model on the continent. we are reminded yet again that harmonisation more often than not puts us in the minority through no fault of the system, it is just that we are the odd ones out. we are reminded again of that little miracle that happened when the common law system was invented. this extraordinary, sublime idea that law does not emanate from the state, but rather that there was a folk right of existing law that even the king and his ministers were subject to. how it happened i do not know, but it served to make us a free people and that we have accepted this alien system as superior over it leaves us dwindled as a nation, diminished as a people.
madam president, one of the cross-cutting themes in this report is the call for wider representation of women on boards of companies, an aspiration that i entirely agree with. more diversity on boards, when twinned with effective selection procedures that put the correct focus on expertise and experience, has been proven to be good for corporate governance. however, i cannot support the concept of mandatory quotas. not only is it patronising to women, it is completely against the concept of shareholder engagement that we are all so keen to foster in european companies. the best way to achieve meaningful, non-tokenistic representation of women on boards is by industry initiatives, such as the 30% club in the united kingdom which encourages business leaders to take affirmative action in moving voluntarily towards a better gender balance at all levels of their organisation. this approach has the added benefit of encouraging institutional shareholders to take a positive role in promoting women to positions of leadership, but the real problem of gender equality exists one step down, at the management level. correcting this will involve long-term planning.
madam president, the report by the committee on women’s rights on equality between men and women in the eu highlights a number of ongoing concerns. i am pleased that the report addresses a number of these. firstly, i agree it is frustrating that progress on gender equality is slowing, if not at a standstill. we must address – especially in times of economic crisis where belts are tightening – the problem that women earn on average 17.5% less than men across the eu. gender stereotypes, often leading to discrimination in the workplace, must also be addressed. the call for the european observatory on gender-based violence to be made operational as soon as possible is fully supported, while i agree that the eu victims’ package must include provisions to support women who have been forced to marry or who have been the victims of genital mutilation as a result of religious practices. however, the report goes on to call for eu influence over maternity leave, quotas for female representation in elected positions, the combating of gender-based violence through eu-wide legal instruments and pension rights, all of which i believe are better addressed at a national level rather than at a european level. on issues such as quotas i firmly believe it is up to the nation state and national parties to decide how they will address the gender imbalance. there are many points of agreement within this report but often it goes too far and i cannot support this.
madam president, this report contains some positive statements regarding domestic violence, female genital mutilation and forced marriages, all of which made it difficult to vote against the report. i acknowledge the gender pay gap is still very real and it is an unjust fact of today’s employment market. i do not underestimate the need to encourage more women into politics. however, it is difficult to support a report that calls for an eu-dictated maternity and paternity leave proposal, which is both damaging to women and small businesses and is socially regressive. it supports targets and quotas at eu level and it meddles in pensions and social security measures, a red line in my view. unfortunately, there are too many areas i cannot support and these drown out all the good the report can do. i was therefore forced to vote against this report.
madam president, i very much regret that this report, which should have been about reducing inequality and highlighting a very important issue in this respect, has not only strayed into areas which are solely within the remit of the member state, but has also been used once again to press the case for the pro-abortion lobby across the eu. as someone who believes firmly in the right to life of the unborn child, i cannot support the distortion of reports in this way. there are already great concerns at how abortion clinics carry out their work. indeed, only two weeks ago in the uk, the daily telegraph revealed the availability of gender-based abortions in a private clinic in england. that is a practice that must end and reports would be more profitable if they were to uphold the right to life of young girls such as those highlighted in the daily telegraph report. despite the merits of some aspects of the report, i cannot support it and regret the continued pursuance of reports in such a one-sided way.
madam president, i voted against the in ’t veld report on equality between men and women in the eu. the report of course has many positive elements on gender equality which i support, such as work in the field of preventing domestic violence, forced marriages, female genital mutilation, discrimination in the workplace and unequal pay for the same work. however, the references, for example, to maternity leave, forced paternity leave at eu level, quotas for women on the board of directors, pension rights, and a kind of eu-level criminal-law sanctions approach to combating gender-based violence are a step too far in my view and they caused me to vote against it. lastly, matters to do with abortion are a personal conscience matter and in my view should be deal with under subsidiarity by national parliaments and national governments and individual mps, not meps.
madam president, we will have to wait and see where the european parliament stands on apple pie, but we now know its position on motherhood, and for many of the supporters of this report on equality between the sexes, it really is in that category. of course, if we were simply proposing equality of all citizens before the law it would be very difficult for anyone to disagree. but what has happened is that this report has become a kind of general holdall receptacle for every current nostrum – quotas on company boards, quotas in political parties, abortion law, reproductive rights. i am not saying that there is not a case to be made for and against all of those issues, but surely they ought to be determined through our national democratic mechanisms and procedures? if national parliaments cannot even decide sensitive and ethical questions [microphone momentarily switched off] accountable to their own electorates, what are they doing there? if as independent countries we cannot settle these matters for ourselves, let us quit all and give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
madam president, this report is a classic example of do as i say not as i do. one would expect the eu institutions themselves with many politically appointed executives to be leading the way. i cannot understand why one of the most influential institutions in the eu, namely the european central bank, does not get included in the scope of this report. we sit and lecture and mandate gender equality for any number of private institutions and already have legislative proposals on the table covering diversity on the boards of financial institutions yet the ecb itself does not currently have a single woman on its executive board. many member states still think it is acceptable to consider an all-male shortlist every time a position on the ecb comes up. i refuse to accept that there are no competent women out there able to take part in economic decisions that affect the lives of over 500 million eu citizens or that the bank’s dealings with greece and other troubled economies over the coming years would not benefit from a female perspective. let the eu institutions fix their own gender deficit before turning to others.
madam president, as a young elected female representative, i feel it important to outline my opposition towards the report on women in political decision-making. it is regrettable that women are so badly under-represented in politics. we must encourage improvement on the 24% eu national average of women in political decision-making roles. the situation is even worse in westminster in the uk where 22% of members of parliament are women. considering that 51% of the uk population is female, this imbalance becomes stark. i therefore support ideas such as mentoring programmes, whereby training and exchange programmes could be used to better promote young women’s political participation and i commend the work of the conservative women’s organisation in the uk in encouraging young women. i even recognise that my own conservative party has tried to promote women by supporting all-women shortlists, as david cameron did in 2009, and so it should be that nation states and parties within nation states should have the freedom to address the gender imbalance as they see fit. however, what i do oppose is the eu creating a top-down approach, whereby they impose quotas and other measures to address the gender imbalance.
madam president, it is a given that we need more women in politics, in fact in all spheres of life. what we do not need is to put them there through non-flexible eu legislation which establishes targets and quotas for women. member states need to look at their own political systems and decide how best to support women in these fields. member states must have the right to decide what is best for their government and how to format their government. who is in the government is up to the electorate. candidates must always be selected on merit and the ability to do the job. this report is patronising to women and it is venturing outside the eu jurisdiction.
madam president, whilst i agree that there are disproportionately low numbers of women in political roles, and indeed high in business, and we want to see those barriers which remain broken down, i do not believe that this report from the european parliament will be the instrument to do so. i am sure that i speak for the vast majority of women in saying that we want career advancement on the basis of merit, on our ability to actually do the job, rather than on our gender. i want people to vote for me on my record of representation, not because i am a woman. i certainly do not want someone else to suffer discrimination in order to advance my career. capable, ambitious women want to reach the pinnacle of their careers on what they have achieved and what they can offer. to progress because you are a woman in order to meet an eu statistic would be a hollow achievement indeed. i want to state that i firmly support mentoring programmes and i want to commend the work of organisations such as the ballybeen women’s centre in my own constituency – an example of real working women who are tackling the issue head-on, with greater access to education, training and support.
madam president, i voted alongside my group against the pietikäinen report on women in political decision-making. while i accept strongly that there is a numerical imbalance between men and women in terms of numbers involved in political decision-making at the highest levels, and that this is not an ideal state of affairs, i strongly reject eu-wide quotas and targets being put in place and enforced. i believe that this is a matter for national governments and political parties and their electorates. although i do not oppose the notion of introducing targets at national level, i again feel strongly that this is a matter to be organised by the member states as they see fit within their own political systems. lastly, i would like to make the comment that, within my own political party, margaret thatcher never felt remotely held back in her rise to power in the united kingdom by being a woman.
madam president, cooperatives have a hugely important role in local economies, particularly in this time of economic hardship when necessary cuts are being made to public services. setting up local cooperatives to meet local needs should be the obvious solution. however, i think the concept of european cooperative societies misses the point. setting eu directives to harmonise the concept of a cooperative is not what is necessary to make setting them up easier. the real problem is the huge amount of red tape and bureaucracy that any number of other eu directives and regulations create and thus stifle small businesses, no matter whether they are organised as cooperatives, social enterprises or for-profit businesses. i can only hope that the commission’s commitment to a social business initiative and all businesses across the eu will turn words into action and actually deal head on with the issue of red tape and bureaucracy which affects all of my welsh businesses, however they may be structured.
madam president, i am abstaining on the giegold report on the statute for a european cooperative society with regard to the involvement of employees. while i do not oppose the idea of an sce per se – and personally i strongly support the cooperative movement as a great business and social model – i note that the uptake has been relatively slow at eu level with only 17 such establishments set up since 2010. given this slow uptake, i do not back the calls for the creation of a dedicated european year of the social economy, and neither do i support the initiative put forward in the report for urgent improvements within the commission with regard to the organisation and financial resources dedicated to the social economy. instead i much prefer the big society idea promoted by my very own prime minister, david cameron. maybe other eu member states should look at the uk and copy this example.
madam president, whilst i support the bologna process which, although not an eu initiative, has 47 countries agreeing to facilitate movement for study or employment between countries within the european higher education area, i was not able to support this report, as i firmly believe that education is and should remain a competence reserved for member states. so i do not agree with a number of the recommendations that have been made in this report. although i would not be opposed to additional cooperation between universities, or other education institutions in third countries and the eu, i am opposed to any harmonisation of academic standards at the eu level and beyond. similarly i cannot support the recommendation for an agreement for financial support on a common core curriculum. even within the united kingdom, wales, england, scotland and northern ireland have differences in their curricula and, although they have some harmonisation of academic standards, they are not always the same and do not need to be. if we can work on a diverse platform for education within my member state, why not amongst the eu and, as described here, within the 47 countries?
madam president, the bologna process is part of an ongoing task to create a european higher education area which will help to facilitate the mobility of students and professionals. i believe that education is a key factor in boosting economic growth and, as such, i was able to support some of the aspects of the report. i was also the rapporteur of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in which i highlighted the important role of research, employability, mobility and the importance of university-business dialogue in essential links of the bologna process, with the connections in the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. it seems, however, that some have been carried away in the drafting of this report and it includes elements which are very difficult for me to support. as a british conservative, i cannot support the repeated calls for more funding and increased public investment in higher education at a time of difficult cuts for many member states, my own included. in addition to this, the report calls for harmonisation of academic standards and for strong financial support where there are agreements on common core curricula. education is the competence of the member states and it should remain that way. on this basis, i have had to vote against this report.
madam president, mobility is an important principle of the single market. also, many students find studying abroad to be a rewarding experience. however, i do not believe this means we need to accept the rigid recommendations of the bologna process, not least because education is a member state competence. three of the top universities in the world are in the uk, with one of them, imperial college, in my home constituency of london. there is a danger that the bologna process, with its emphasis on an academic credit system, will lead to a mechanical approach to learning or, worse still, the dumbing down of british universities. student success should be based on their achievements, not the number of hours they spend in the lecture hall. i will be saying ‘no’ to this report and i voted against it.
madam president, i voted against the berlinguer report on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process which is not a bad thing per se, but it should stick to the mutual recognition of degrees and diplomas. i feel strongly that educational policy should be primarily the preserve of the governments of the eu member states. a particular concern to the british conservative delegation are the repeated calls for more places and funding for higher education. given that the british government has recently made efficiency savings in the areas of higher education and increased tuition fees, we find it difficult to agree with a report that states that such cuts have a negative effect on attempts to strengthen the eu’s social dimension. personally, i would like to see, in my country, more support for teaching technical skills and crafts, equipping young people for jobs, which are needed in the economy rather than unlimited expansion of higher education.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement which is aimed at improving judicial cooperation between the eu member states and norway and iceland by applying almost all provisions contained in the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between the member states and its protocol adopted in 2001. this includes inter alia provisions on hearing of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or video conference, controlled deliveries, covert investigations and joint investigation teams and requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular.
in writing. − on the basis of the information supplied by the committee on legal affairs i followed the recommendation that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of krisztina morvai.
in writing. − i believe the adoption of this proposal will make handling cross-border successions considerably easier. however, i abstained because the uk government opted out of this proposal.
in writing. − i abstained on the lechner report on succession and wills because of the failure of the uk government to influence the content of this new law by opting out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as whole as it sends a strong message of our shared commitment to reduce inequality as a result of discrimination. it is crucial however to stay firmly realistic in our objectives, and to work with member states in order to achieve workable common goals. for this reason i had to abstain on paragraph 9 relating to the pregnant workers directive – negotiations on which are ongoing. the wording implies that the council should adopt the parliament position on this. whilst not all bad, the parliament position contains some unrealistic demands for a ‘one size fits all’ maternity leave arrangement, which if adopted could perversely discourage employers from hiring women in the first place in some member states, as compliance could prove too burdensome.
in writing. − labour meps voted for this report as we believe it outlines the many proactive measures that could be taken in bridging the gap between the position and status of women and men. great strides have been made in creating gender equality in the eu; however, we still have lots to achieve. in order to create parity and fairness in the single market, we believe that these measures should be taken at eu level. we are disappointed that the british conservative party sought to water down many parts of the report by putting the needs of small business ahead of the wellbeing of workers who are pregnant, have recently given birth or are breastfeeding. the eplp will not vote to prioritise the needs of business over the safety of workers and will continue to work towards better safety standards across the board.
in writing. − i have consistently spoken out against quotas and positive discrimination. all discrimination creates victims. i cannot possibly support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour and support the need for a maternity leave directive.
in writing. − equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the eu, therefore it is vital that the commission take tough initiatives to tackle inequality. i voted in favour of the report, which highlights that when national measures to ensure equality are inadequate, the commission should propose legislation to reduce the gender pay gap and quotas to boost female representation on corporate boards and in political bodies. an eu equal pay target to reduce the gender pay gap by 10% in each eu country is a great initiative and places emphasis on the european parliament’s commitment to the important issue of equality.
in writing. − the ecr group was unable to support this report due to the nature of its content. we feel that the bulk of this report would erode the individual member states’ right to subsidiarity. we do not believe that the eu should be interfering in issues such as maternity leave, targets and quotas for women in business, pension and social security matters, redefining the family unit and other such references to social policy. whilst the aims and objectives of this report are commendable we do not believe this report addresses equality between men and women in a meaningful way, and have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which says that to ensure gender parity in political decision making, including electoral lists and top eu positions, binding measures and sanctions are needed at national and eu level.
in writing. − the ecr group strongly opposes all calls at eu level for legislation to establish targets and quotas for women in political parties and institutions and all sectors for that matter. we recognise the need to increase female representation across all sectors but do not believe that legislative measures or prescriptive targets set at eu level are helpful. the ecr group has therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report. cooperatives are an important pillar of the european economy and a key driver for social innovation, and thus in particular preserve infrastructure and local services specifically in rural areas and conurbations. europe has 160 000 cooperatives, owned by more than a quarter of all europeans, which provide work for around 5.4 million employees. cooperative banks have shown high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks to their cooperative business model. thanks to their cooperative business model they increased turnover and growth during the crisis with less bankruptcies and redundancies. cooperative enterprises also provide high-quality, inclusive and crisis-resilient employment, often with high ratios of female and migrant employment and contribute towards the sustainable economic and social development of an area by providing local, non-relocatable jobs. cooperatives can be seen as a successful and contemporary approach to the social economy and can contribute to providing secure employment prospects and allow employees to plan their life flexibly at their place of origin, especially in rural areas.
in writing. − british conservatives are very supportive of the contribution cooperatives make to local communities. as conservatives, we have a strong belief, for example, in the huge benefits of communities working together and indeed the invaluable work of the voluntary sector and the social economy. while we strongly believe in the completion of the single market and any effort to improve cross-border business activity, we have a number of concerns with the statute for a european cooperative society. first, in addition to its complex and bureaucratic nature, most firms who choose to operate as a cooperative tend to be anchored within their own local community and not on a pan-european level. the purpose of a cooperative is, after all, to serve the members who participate directly in the democratic management of the firm. secondly, an overwhelming majority of cooperatives are small businesses operating within national borders and therefore there is very little advantage to or added value from a european statute. taking these concerns into account along with a number of recommendations within this report for new measures at european level, including calls for a european year of social economy, we have decided to abstain from this report.
in writing. − i have long supported the idea of a statute for cooperatives and mutuals. the recent economic and financial crisis has made more effective the arguments used to promote cooperative societies involving employees. this report does many good things i could support, but a key vote on the issue of reducing the numbers of participants is not acceptable to me, and therefore i voted against it. i would have thought the greens would have wanted participation whatever the numbers involved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this own initiative report that calls for recognition of a european cooperative society and the introduction of provisions on employee participation. the statute currently in place is in need of revision to allow the specific needs of cooperative societies to be addressed. the eu must show recognition and support for social economy enterprises, and a harmonised legal framework is essential for european coordination in this sector. i welcome the suggestion for the commission to simplify the regulation and include provisions on employee participation in the statute.
in writing. − i voted for this report which says that the guiding aim and fundamental requirement of the bologna process is to allow any student studying anywhere in the european union to graduate and see their qualifications recognised throughout the european union. the report argues that the european institutions must provide more support to the bologna process and seek to strengthen the european higher education area. it highlights the key tools which can provide such support: improving the mutual recognition of qualifications; the definition of common university curricula and standards; and the evaluation of universities across the member states.
in writing. − the bologna process has been vital to increasing student mobility and developing the european union’s higher education sector. i am fully in favour of this report, as it attempts to highlight the importance of european institutions showing collective support to the bologna process to ensure that it continues to develop and strengthen. the link between the bologna process and the labour market is highlighted by the report as an area in need of further support; increasing recognition of degrees and developing a joint degree system will go a long way to addressing this. the call to recognise the doctorate level throughout the eu is also vitally important; phd degrees must be recognised, as they are often a brilliant example of academic-business cooperation, which is important for economic growth.
in writing. − i voted for this report which takes the view that a systemic approach to quality needs to be taken, which may require a reform of the method of producing european statistics and a gradual transition from a corrective approach to a preventive approach to the quality management of european statistics in general and public finance statistics in particular; welcomes the binding nature of the rules regarding production, and verification of the accuracy, of european statistics; considers that having independent statistical bodies is essential to maintaining the credibility of statistical data and calls on the commission to provide assistance and expertise to member states to help them tackle research constraints and major methodological obstacles, with a view to ensuring compliance and provision of high-quality data.
in writing. − the only way to have good economic policy in a country is if you can rely upon the quality of the statistics you are basing decisions upon. while there has been a lot of discussion over greece’s use of inaccurate statistics in reporting to the european commission, there is a more pressing concern in many countries that statistical agencies are not properly independent from government and are overly influenced by politicians to produce favourable forecasts and statistics to back up questionable economic decisions. i am really supportive of mr scicluna’s report in this area as it reinforces the economic governance legislation that we concluded last year and looks to achieve meaningful, practical improvements to how statistics are collected and how they are used. i continually ask both the commission in its impact assessments, and private sector organisations when they are criticising eu legislation, to back up their arguments with facts and data, and i hold member states to the same goal – good policy can only be made if it is based upon solid evidence that stands up to scrutiny.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this report as what use are statistics if they cannot be trusted? reliable and accurate statistics are important for policy making, particularly economic and budgetary related. the report highlights the need for impartiality and objectivity in addition to ensuring that statistics are compiled by national agencies separate from political control. we must not let political parties meddle with statistics and skew them to their advantage. i hope that by streamlining the entire production chain we shall have increasingly accurate facts and figures which have been properly verified and that we can have confidence in.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, commissioner, in a world where the internet has become a basic tool in almost all parts of our lives, including political life, the way it is used and its impact on societies and individuals is of increasing interest to us all. frankly it is hard to imagine a world without the internet and the internet constitutes a vital tool when it comes to exchange of information. today’s debate is very important, touching upon two of the most fundamental principles of the european union: freedom of expression and non-discrimination in an open and secure europe. as the presidency, we are very much aware of the concerns of this parliament when it comes to the possible misuse of internet sites and of the specific reasons which have led this debate to be placed on your agenda this week. i believe that while discussing this issue we must distinguish between law and politics, and legally speaking it goes without saying that there is freedom of expression in europe. it is a cornerstone in our democracy and must be cherished. it is clearly stated in the charter and the council of europe’s convention on human rights that everyone has the right to freedom of expression, including the right to hold opinions and receive and impart information and ideas. i need not remind you that, according to article 6 of the treaty on european union, the union shall accede to the convention on human rights. this debate also relates to the principle of free movement of workers, which is a pillar of the european union. however, freedom of expression is not equivalent to the right to express anything about everyone. freedom of expression should be exercised within a certain framework in order to protect other fundamental rights. so establishing this framework can be brought about by legal remedies in national legal orders and to some extent also at eu level. politically speaking however, i want to make it quite clear that i and the danish presidency condemn any form of discrimination. the council also cherishes the principle of non-discrimination and all activities of the councils are carried out in respect of this fundamental principle. i hope you will understand that my comments this afternoon are necessarily brief and limited in scope. that is because the council has neither discussed nor adopted a position on the issue of government reactions to internet sites which raise questions concerning discrimination. as far as any specific comments this parliament has in relation to reactions from any particular member state, it is not for me representing the council as a whole to take a view on this issue. however, finding the right balance between freedom of expression and non-discrimination is a very important task and i very much look forward to hearing your views on this issue.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission has serious concerns about the website launched by the dutch pvv party and, as you know, i have personally condemned this website because it is an open call for intolerance and intolerance has no place in europe. i called on all citizens of the netherlands not to follow the intolerance of the pvv website and i commend the very strong reaction that they have shown. the dutch complaints bureau for discrimination on the internet has received well over 6 000 complaints from citizens and in addition many political parties in the netherlands, including those from the majority, have dissociated themselves from this website. the response by dutch business leaders is particularly welcome. they have condemned the xenophobic nature of the website and warned about its damaging effects on intra-eu trade for the dutch economy. i also applaud the fact that the european parties have raised their voice. i cannot quote all those who have been very outspoken on this, but the president of the epp has said ‘i am angered’; alde has said that the website goes against all european values of dignity and liberty. president martin schulz has given his analysis that the website shows completely unacceptable behaviour. i would like to recall that ten ambassadors have written an open letter in which they express their concerns about the discriminatory and stigmatising nature of the website, saying it was a deplorable initiative. i would like to quote the council of europe’s secretary-general, who wrote that he is concerned because the website is hosted by a political party which is linked to the governing coalition, and so on and so forth. let me add to this that it is unacceptable that eu citizens should become the target of xenophobic and intolerant attitudes because they have exercised their fundamental freedom to move from one member state to another. the citizens of the 27 member states have the right to move, work and study wherever they like and they should feel at home no matter where they decide to move. all governments have the duty to ensure that eu citizens from other member states feel welcome. they must explain to their citizens the important benefits the free movement of citizens has for the economy and for our societies. the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia obliges member states to make intentional public incitement to hatred against persons punishable. incitement to xenophobic hate is an offence in europe, so it is for the dutch authorities to investigate fully the lawfulness of this website under dutch law and under union law. i applaud the joint motion for a resolution by the ppe, the socialist group, the liberals, the greens and the communists. that is the right way to proceed: to say altogether, ‘no, there is a limit to what one can do’. the european union is founded on the values of democracy, non-discrimination and the rule of law. these have to be respected by all, including by national politicians.
blue-card question. – madam president, i wonder if mr daul remembers the words of pastor niemoller: ‘when they came for the communists, i did not speak out because i was not a communist.’ he might have continued, ‘when they came for the dutch freedom party, i did not speak out because i was not a member of that party’. he concluded, ‘when they came for me, there was nobody left to speak out.’ incidentally, i do not endorse the comments about eastern europeans. i suspect they are actually a euphemism for third world immigrants. but of course free speech is not just for people with whom we agree.
the next item is question time to the commission. i would like to welcome commissioners kallas, barnier and andor. the specific topic for question time is the role of the european union in stimulating the competitiveness of the economies of the 27 member states. i will interpret this topic as widely as possible, but i would warn you that if your question is completely off topic and, for example, deals with the common agricultural policy, you are liable to be cut off. i would like to remind you of the ground rules. questions are taken exclusively on a catch-the-eye basis. each member has one minute to put his or her question, and 30 seconds to put a supplementary. the commissioner has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering, and, if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute’s speaking time. it says catch the eye but in fact i am blind, so the people next to me are the ones who are catching the eye. we will now begin with those who have already indicated they want to put a question.
it is good to hear you talking about infrastructure, because investment in infrastructure is so critical to growth and competitiveness. but, commissioner barnier, last week one of the uk’s largest insurance companies said they may move to hong kong. then the head of the british insurance industry warned of large reductions in infrastructure investment, and a huge infrastructure owner told me their investors’ increased costs could add over 10% to every project investment. all of this is due to uncertainty regarding solvency ii, so it is a very simple question, commissioner: please will you ask mr balz to stop rewriting solvency ii through the omnibus directive?
i am glad that you are going to look at a study on the impact of our financial services legislation on investment, but would you agree that what we need is a continuous and cumulative study of all of this financial services legislation on our investment, particularly in infrastructure projects and long-term projects, and the ability to react quickly if we have got it wrong?
we are now over half way through question time and so far we have done eight questions. i am now going to read out the names of people on my list which the staff have noted down according to the groups and put them in order of the questions being noted:mr mitchell and mr luhan from the epp group;mr balčytis and mr daerden from the s&d group;ms bilbao barandica and mr de backer from the alde group;mr chountis from the gue/ngl group. we have a balance across the house so far, but i have to say that anybody else whose name i have not read out is unlikely to be arrived at. i am sorry about that. this process is under review. and ms morvai, i apologise, you are not on the list. we are reviewing the situation to try and make it as fair as possible, but this is a catch-the-eye procedure.
that concludes question time with the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this budget comes at a time when it is important to take into account the economic and budgetary constraints at national level. that means that it is going to be important to strike the right balance between austerity and sound, judicious investment. in that respect, our rapporteur has set out a number of principles which we are happy to support. i strongly agree with his assertion that we need a budget that focuses on jobs and growth. he is right to point out that this is best achieved through clear prioritisation and targeted, coordinated investment amongst the member states. in particular, i strongly agree with him that the key test for eu expenditure must be the creation of european added value. we would also impress on him, however, the need for value for money. i would urge greater thought to be given to the efficiency of this budgetary process. specifically, inaccurate budgeting and the growth in the ‘reste à liquider’ both lead to large sums of unspent money, both of which suggest that we should be looking for ways to increase flexibility in the budgeting process. but the one point that is missing in this report is a commentary on the size of the budget. at a time when most of europe is experiencing austerity and most of europe’s governments are cutting expenditure, it is most important that we, too, show a determination to reduce our expenditure wherever possible. can i therefore recommend to our rapporteur that in his future report he calls for a freeze in the size of the budget?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we already know that billions in taxpayers’ money was wasted in financing the failed lisbon agenda, but the eu institutions will never admit their responsibility for helping to create this crisis. instead, they are asking for more money from eu citizens to finance another failure to come: the 2020 agenda. this is treating eu citizens as fools. when will this parliament realise that stimulating growth and jobs requires much less red tape and much less pointless legislation? why can this parliament not admit that growth-targeted spending would be best directed at member state level? year after year, this parliament is happy to put more taxpayers’ money in the hands of the commission, an institution which – as the auditors tell us – is unable to ensure the proper use of eu funding. of course, the commission never runs a deficit, and it never will, because it can always go back to the member states and tax them more to balance its books. if this house refuses to show common sense and responsibility, it will be the architect of its own downfall. i, for one, am calling on the british government to reduce its contribution to the 2013 eu budget by 10% in comparison with this year’s contribution. however, when it comes to the uk coalition government, i will not be holding my breath.
mr president, it is vitally important that the eu budget is focused on addressing the economic and financial crisis. with eu countries sliding back into recession, it is vital that eu funds are efficiently targeted at jobs, growth and investment to try and turn the eu economies around. austerity alone cannot rescue us from the current crisis. the 2013 budget year will prove to be a very difficult one with, on the one hand, a real need for budgetary constraint and austerity but, on the other hand, significant demands for payments from member states as we come to the end of this financial perspective. as the commissioner pointed out, with at least eur 5 billion of payments which were carried over from the last financial year, it is absolutely vital that the commission get a clear idea of the likely drawdown for 2013 from member states. there can be no surprises or else it is going to be very difficult to try and shape a sensible budget. i would like to see us aim for a freeze in real terms of the 2013 budget but this must be tempered by the fact that we are nearing the end of the financial perspective and the budget must reflect that fact. i hope we can work constructively with the commission to square that difficult circle.
mr president, this document and others like it remind me of those quacks who used to travel around with a single patent medicine that would cure all illnesses. the eu medicine, of course, is further political and economic integration. the illness in this case is the current economic crisis, but it could just as easily have been domestic violence, international tension or painful haemorrhoids in the elderly. the remedy would still be further political and economic integration. if you think that comparing the eu with travelling salesmen is unfair, listen to this: ‘parliament … takes the view that austerity measures undertaken at national level should not lead to an equivalent decrease at eu level’. and this is the best bit: ‘since one euro spent at this level can generate savings in the 27 member states’. i once bought a second-hand car from somebody who asked me on what i was going to spend the money that he had saved me. to parody the words of norman tebbit about the eu: ‘if it talks like a spiv and acts like a spiv, perhaps it is a spiv’.
mr president, like others, i of course support the international cocoa agreement. i think that it will help in terms of the social and environmental stability of the cocoa industry, but i also express grave concern at the existence of child labour in the industry. let us be clear, though: the responsibility for tackling this issue does not lie with the european parliament or with consumers in europe, but with the industry itself. over the last 10 years, the industry has made eur 700 billion. that is a phenomenal sum of money, and the industry spent precisely 0.0075% of that investing in its workers’ working conditions. the industry has a responsibility to provide schools for the children that it exploits. it has a responsibility to improve factories and conditions to make sure that the health of workers is protected. as i said, i welcome this agreement, but in the end the best way forward is for us to continue to buy and support fair trade products.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the diabetes time bomb has stopped ticking and has actually exploded, so i am delighted that the danish presidency – as well as parliament (where we also have danish influence) – are supportive of a specific focus on diabetes. the fact that it accounts for 10% of our health care costs is reason enough. while the onset of type i diabetes in children and teenagers is quite sudden, type 2 diabetes is often not diagnosed until it has been present for some years. this leads to complications such as blindness and kidney and heart disease, which are both devastating and expensive and account for a lot of those costs. as the commissioner noted, not all diabetes is preventable, and i would specifically mention those 10 to 15% who have type i. even tiny babies are getting it. an exclusively horizontal approach does tend to ignore type i. there seem to be two main explanations for the lack of urgency to date on diabetes. one is, i think, the perception that people get along with it ok: they just have to be a bit careful about what they eat, and they do not die from it. in fact some do die directly from diabetes, but many more die early from the devastating side-effects that i have just mentioned. i think a second reason for inaction is prejudice – the perception that it is only about a lazy lifestyle. again, i think an exclusively horizontal approach reinforces that. the commission promised only to reflect. i think we are going to need a lot more, and we need to push the commission firmly to actually develop a diabetes strategy in the form of an eu council recommendation. i do not accept that the horizontal approach and the specific focus are mutually exclusive.
mr president, i just wanted to point out that i am afraid the commissioner misunderstood mr papanikolaou – if i may take his name in vain – because he was talking about something i am associated with, type 1 diabetes. for a child at school, the question has nothing to do with the general issues of chronic diseases. it is about whether a school is equipped to deal with the specific demands of a child with diabetes, which involve insulin injections, blood sugar monitoring and so on. i think bringing chronic diseases into that situation shows a complete misunderstanding of the specific demands of diabetes – and particularly type 1 diabetes – and children.
mr president, the european fisheries fund exists to support fishing and coastal communities. it is important that the fund be allowed to contribute to the difficult economic conditions that many countries and communities find themselves in. however, i want simply to draw your attention tonight to my constituency of northern ireland. it is the only part of the united kingdom to share a land border with another country that finds itself in a financial programme because of ongoing economic difficulties. you will then understand that many of the fishermen that i represent look at the disparity in the way some of these proposals will treat them as opposed to their colleagues, who are simply 100 miles down the road. yet both these fleets suffer from exactly the same problems, and the coastal communities suffer in exactly the same ways: declining fleets and coastal communities that are experiencing ever greater unemployment and economic difficulty. i think the death blow for many of the fishermen that i represent in northern ireland was the results of the december council meeting, which almost certainly will see the end of the white fish fleet in northern ireland. you can understand how frustrated and concerned the fishermen that i represent are by the perception of disparity that they find. frustratingly as well, they find problems not only with cofinancing and the rates at which they are allowed to cofinance, but also with the administrative burden that the european fisheries fund has laid upon them. the fund has been very difficult and burdensome, both for the administrator and for the applicant, and i would like to see some progress made on this front both for the immediate future and for the longer-term, post-2014 situation.
mr president, following the savage report from the court of auditors there is a need for a radical overhaul of the way in which we allocate funds in the fisheries sector. mr ferreira’s report seeks to overcome problems with the implementation of the current eff due to spending constraints caused by the economic crisis. but we need to take on board the key criticisms of the auditors before we set about creating the framework for the new european maritime and fisheries fund. their main complaint was centred on the overcapacity of the eu fleet. they stated that, although the alignment of fishing capacity to fishing opportunities is one of the cornerstones of the cfp and the eff, fishing overcapacity has never been defined or quantified. the commissioner said in a recent speech that building up healthy fish stocks in our waters is the best way to increase fishermen’s incomes. but we cannot hope to build up fish stocks unless we tackle the overcapacity of the eu fleet. we cannot tackle overcapacity if we use taxpayers’ money to subsidise the construction of new fishing vessels or the modernisation of existing vessels or indeed, as isabella lövin said, the upgrading of engines, supposedly to make them more fuel efficient and to cut co2 emissions but probably to make them more effective at catching fish. so let us take close cognisance of what the auditors said, make sure the emff is used for the best effect in future: for funding selective gear for safety on board vessels, marketing for pos and for boosting eu aquaculture.
mr president, the eff has eur 4.5 billion to spend on fishing over the period 2007 to 2013 covering scrapping of fishing vessels, aquaculture, inland fishing, sustainability and administration of the fund. but fishing managed very well before the cfp was introduced, livings were made, fish was plentiful. since its inception in 1973, the cfp has introduced rules and regulations to control fishing. now the eff – why? after all, fishermen have been plying their trade for centuries without all this, and a viable industry has been passed down the generations. fishermen are not stupid. they have looked after their stocks, just as a farmer looks after his livestock and land. this proposal, of course, is a backdoor way of giving extra financial support to countries which have been bailed out, bailout funds under the efsm will trigger this extra support from the eff, and yet more taxpayers’ money goes down the drain. so this whole scheme, purporting to help fishing with more funds, is really an addition to bailouts, which are supposed to be loans by way of bond issues with time limits for repayment. does that mean that the extra eff money will not be included in bailout repayments? does it mean that cash will be available without issuing bonds? if so, eff funding will be a gift to offset a debt. what kind of finance is that?
mr president, madam commissioner as you know full well i have always taken the view that the common fisheries policy was bad for the fish and bad for the fishermen. you have been the first to recognise that a lot of mistakes have been made in the past, and the trouble is that it is very difficult to overcome some of these mistakes. my constituency, the east of england, used to have a large and vibrant fishing industry. sadly, this is no longer the case. earlier today i was talking to a fisherman in my region who has been involved in fishing for some thirty years and now has one of the last seven boats in what was the great fishing port of lowestoft. his boat is under 12 metres; in fact 97% of the uk fishing fleet is in this category, but they have an allocation of only 4% of the total allowable catch. of course these fishermen do not want to see stocks decimated or wasted – they want to make a decent living. to be able to do this they need flexibility and a better quota. like most our citizens, they are outraged by the discard policy. my local fisherman has to throw away more than he is allowed to land. i know you want to put a stop to discards, but we cannot wait until after 2016. there will not be any fishermen left by then.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − mr president, as my colleague the rapporteur from the committee on international trade and the commissioner pointed out, it is 14 years that the trade war between the us and the eu over the ban on hormone-treated beef imports to the eu has raged, both in the wto where we lost twice, and in the form of tit-for-tat sanctions from the us against eu exports into the us market, causing real damage to both the eu and the us i would argue. this deal negotiated by baroness ashton in 2009 will at long last draw a line under this issue once and for all. let us be clear: it is a win-win for both sides. in the eu we get to keep our ban on hormone-treated imports of beef and we also lose the us trade sanctions that have been put upon many of our exports. in return the us gets 45 000 tonnes of access to the eu market for high-quality beef cuts. this is an important step forward in normalising our trade relations with the us and it is already beginning to pay dividends. as the commissioner rightly pointed out, on friday the us announced new bse rules for beef imports. i would hope that all colleagues in the chamber here tonight would urge the us government to adopt these new rules as swiftly as possible and build on and reinforce the trust between both the eu and the us on trade issues. this can only bring benefits to both consumers and producers in the united states and in the european union.
mr president, my constituency – northern ireland – has an export-oriented agriculture sector. we export about 70% of everything that we produce, and this is particularly true in the beef sector. my government will, therefore, always be looking for new markets and the opening-up of markets for the beef sector from northern ireland. we view this development as a step in the right direction. it rectifies the unjust stance taken by the us in relation to agricultural produce from the eu, and i hope that it can be viewed as recognition of the high-quality, safe and wholesome food that is produced by european farmers and which is so eminently traceable. like others in this chamber tonight, i would look for an early resolution to the import ban and hope for the early adoption of the new bse rules by the us. i would also hope that this kind of development will lead to the opening-up of further markets for eu agricultural produce, and particularly beef. however, i want to finish tonight with a word of warning, one that is very clear from the beef sector in northern ireland. it is that the new proposals for the common agricultural policy have at their heart a disadvantage to the beef sector in northern ireland, which tends to be more intensive and is characterised by small family farms, and we fear that the new cap will only advantage landlords.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to start by saying how proud i have been during the past year to be appointed as rapporteur to establish a very fruitful collaboration with the shadows, to support the work of the commissioner whom i deeply respect and to become even more convinced that this is a country which belongs inside the european union. it is why i endorse the call for eu accession talks to start ‘without delay’ in paragraph 1, sentence 1 of the resolution: no qualifications. it is why i have tabled an amendment endorsing the high-level accession dialogue due to begin tomorrow, not as an alternative to talks, but as an opportunity for progress which cannot be missed. i point to the improvement in elections that i witnessed and in parliamentary cooperation, to economic progress, to judicial and public service reform. i do not see as criticism the words of those who call me friendly to the country, because friendly criticism is precisely what is needed. on war crimes, freedom of media, discrimination, police ill-treatment and on the roma, look at the resolution and you will find such friendly but robust criticism. and the decision to abolish the crime of defamation against journalists is indeed demonstration that our demands are being heard and acted upon. it is why those who wish to delete my reference to the country’s success in the basketball championships are wrong. it shows that we can appreciate the difference between legitimate national pride at the same time as warning against illegitimate political nationalism. for those who are erecting hoops through which the country must jump, it is one very apt metaphor that they can do it. but the warnings are not just to the country, but to ourselves, not least in the incidence of ethnic conflict over the last week. as i was told in the country: for stability, like a bicycle you need to keep moving forward. and that includes the name issue. despite the hague judgment, i repeat today that there is no shortcut to a negotiated solution. but to those who seek to delete paragraph 15 even though it meets the un accord: you would be sending a signal that we do not understand the feelings of the people of the country or express our desire to back a solution which is fair and just to all. and to colleagues from neighbouring countries who have negotiated with me, have seen how i sought to be flexible and inclusive: just as you rightly call on skopje to avoid provocations, in the way that you speak today and in the way that you vote, i call on you to demonstrate the very same commitment. shortly this country will take over the chair of the regional cooperation council. it hosted the meeting of ministers of european integration from across the balkans in the wake of this year’s commission progress reports. it is a country which has excellent relations with both serbia and kosovo. its progress points to the european future of every single one of the countries, but there has to be a european future for every one of the countries, which is why this is the debate which must be heard, these are the obligations which must be met on all sides, this is a country which cannot be left behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group supports the call for this resolution to welcome fyrom to the eu as soon as possible. as a member of the delegation to the eu-former yugoslav republic of macedonia joint parliamentary committee i have been following the debate with great interest. i have been following the areas such as inter-ethnic reconciliation, fundamental rights and reforms and public administration. they all show some sign of improvement and i hope that this will continue. fyrom has also made steps towards improving its human rights. now i understand the importance and cultural significance of the name issue and i hope that this will be resolved in due course by the parties concerned. what we need to do is to ensure that the groundwork is prepared for fyrom to become a full member when it meets the required eu criteria.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have heard a lot of mentions from the greek side of this house – and a mention was recently made by mrs koppa in her speech – that nato is complicating matters. i heard a greek communist (i believe) say that nato has got nothing to do with it. of course nato has nothing to do with it, but we do respect international law. would mrs koppa not agree that the icj was very clear in condemning the greek position vis-à-vis macedonia’s accession to nato, and that therefore when she says that greece is not at fault and that macedonia and gruevski’s propaganda is what it is all about and that is where the fault lies, surely the icj is a respected international court and their judgment should have some bearing on the issue of the name question? mrs koppa, would you like to address this please?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group fully supports iceland’s eventual accession to the eu. iceland is a small stable and wealthy democracy and a founder member of nato and the council of europe. it has also made good progress in the accession process. i welcome the fact that iceland’s supreme court has recognised its eea/efta obligations and the jurisdiction of that court regarding compensation for icesave depositors, which will no doubt come up during the accession negotiations. i understand around one third of the recognised priority claims have now been repaid. given iceland’s successful completion of the imf’s economic recovery programme last year, and a return to positive economic growth, we have no doubt that the other outstanding claims will be repaid. with regard to the ongoing mackerel dispute we believe that iceland must respect its legal obligations and we believe the eu and iceland to be perfectly capable of engaging in constructive negotiations to resolve this thorny issue. hopefully we will also see the radical commissioner damanaki reforms of the cfp kick in shortly. ultimately, if after closing all the chapters the icelandic people in a referendum decide to join the eu, this country will be a model eu member state and will hopefully entice norway to join the eu as efta would no longer be sustainable without iceland.
mr president, between 1958 and 1976 iceland fought the cod wars with britain. now cod stocks are rising because of icelandic fish management. compare that with the former uk fishing grounds, now in eu hands. lost and ruined. the uk’s european dream turned into a nightmare. established fishing communities die when the eu boats move in. my message to iceland is obvious. if you join you will lose your fish, your freedom and your currency and there is no regard for quotas or regulations in the eu. for the love of cod, do not do this. say no.
mr president, many of us are ready to welcome iceland into the european union, but we have serious reservations about negotiating with a candidate country which is determined to continue in its predation upon the northern european mackerel stocks whilst discussing aspects of the common fisheries policy which it wants to be changed. they are not alone in that. iceland has the oldest parliament in the world and we have much in common, but the government and people of iceland must understand that their intransigence on fisheries and agriculture will require a spirit of flexibility and understanding to overcome this. the british people wish them well in their application.
mr president, if the british parliament is the mother of parliaments, then the icelandic althing is the grandmother of parliaments. with this democratic pedigree, is it really going to give away its independence and its parliamentary democracy to the undemocratic eu, in which the unelected commission has a monopoly of legislative initiative? the report, in its patronising way, commends iceland for its record on human rights. what should iceland make of such a commendation from an eu with member states that ban political parties and lock people up for heretical opinions and that has a commissioner who salivates at the prospect of locking up a well-known dutch politician? in the early 1970s, some thought that it was britain’s irresistible charm and charisma that attracted the eec. i am afraid not: it was our fish, and that explains iceland’s popularity too. all new members are eventually expected to join the euro. iceland emerged from its crisis by devaluation three years ago, a choice that is not available for a member of the euro area.
blue-card question. – mrs pack, do you think that it is a good thing for the nation states of europe for bosnia-herzegovina to join the euro, because that is what is required under the treaty if bosnia-herzegovina should in fact become a member of the european union, which is what you seem to be in favour of?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ms pack’s report observes that the lack of job perspectives, especially among young people, is hindering the progress of the country and contributing to social discontent. one of the reasons i was so pleased to push hard in support of ms fajon on visa-free travel for bosnians 18 months ago – with which we succeeded – was to allow travel for study and business in the hope of an economic boost, as well as widened horizons. bosnia and herzegovina cannot prosper economically or otherwise, or find its future in the eu, without a functional state that can take decisions. progress has been made, as mr wammen and ms pack and commissioner füle have said – formation of the government, adoption of state aid and census laws, for instance – but, as mr wammen said, without a budget, bih cannot get eu aid. without tackling crime and corruption and having an independent judiciary, business will not invest. being an epicentre of trafficking in human beings is a huge shame for the country. there needs to be local ownership of reforms, but international support and guidance – especially from the eu – is still highly relevant. that is why the alde group is backing the amendment from the s&d group reintroducing the explicit mention of the ‘5+2 agenda’ as a basis for closing the ohr, and that is also why alde has retabled its amendment calling for the eu to sponsor a constitutional conference in cooperation with the council of europe across the road, which has great expertise in its venice commission. thank you again to ms pack for a very good report.
mr president, the uk is not a particularly rich country. nevertheless, income per head in the united kingdom is eight times that in bosnia-herzegovina. this is a problem: how it will be met is by massive subsidies from the british taxpayer and the other eu taxpayers. in fact, the gravy train of eu subsidies has started already. in the last ten years bosnia-herzegovina – not an eu member, not yet even a candidate – has received eur 1.6 billion in assorted subsidies. there will be more to pay if it becomes a candidate and much, much more if in fact bosnia-herzegovina does become a member of the eu. on the evidence of this debate, nobody is properly counting the cost. the idea of bosnia-herzegovina being a member of the eu is a complete non-starter, on financial grounds alone, and i urge you all to forget it.
mr president, so yet another part of the former yugoslavian federation is to give up its independence to a new federation, the eu. the federation is dead; long live the federation. is bosnia’s embracing of the free movement of people going to extend to the whole of bosnia and herzegovina, or simply to the rest of the eu? many bosnians will regard the eu as an attractive escape-route from the fragmented and still dangerous bosnia and herzegovina. from the point of view of the eu’s existing members, bosnia will be yet another net recipient of eu funds and, of course, an opportunity for the rest of us to import some of their interesting and enriching ethnic friction, just in case we have not got enough of that already. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i will answer the last part first. i have been continuously asking my country to leave so at least we are in agreement on that, mr posselt. your mention of yugoslavia being a communist dictatorship is absolutely right and therefore some might say that it is appropriate that it should join the eu, another dictatorship.
mr president, the fishing industry, although diminished in size in recent years, remains of great importance to my constituents in wales in terms of its contribution to employment and to the wider economy, which is why i welcome the report on the european fisheries fund. this fund is one of the financial tools at the eu’s disposal that can be used to help contribute to regional development and also deliver the aims of the common fisheries policy, such as ensuring the conservation and sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fishing sector. given the added pressures on national financial resources as a result of the current economic difficulties, the report sensibly recommends using the european fisheries fund to inject funds into the economy to ensure projects can continue. fishing in welsh waters also makes a major contribution to the tourism sector. particularly in west wales, therefore, which is in receipt of cohesion funds, we need to ensure that access to this european fisheries fund is encouraged by the more needy regions to enhance the prospects of our local fishermen, to protect our maritime parks and to promote diversification, including boosting tourism across our coastal areas in wales.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the ferreira report on the european fisheries fund. we consider programmes such as the eff to be useful tools but note that in the member states that have suffered most in the financial crisis the implementation of these projects is difficult due to pressures on the budget to co-finance. the report foresees a commission proposal that would allow increased payments to be made to those countries that are suffering most from the global financial crisis, namely those that are currently benefiting from support mechanisms in order to ensure the continuation of the eff programmes on the ground. we welcome the fact that, despite this, the amount that the eu contributes to these programmes will be no higher than the amount put forward in the commission’s original decision, i.e. a budget freeze. given that no change has been made to the overall budget, on this occasion we voted in favour.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this report. in the current economic and financial crisis that is engulfing the eu zone, it is imperative that we pave the way for a smooth implementation of cohesion programmes like the european fisheries fund by voting in favour of this report today. this will hopefully lead to funds being injected into local rural fishing-oriented economies. i also support the mechanisms that have been put in place that will allow provision for increased payments to be made to member states that may have financial difficulty in implementing the programmes in question, including the republic of ireland, a close neighbour of my home country and constituency of northern ireland. we need all to do our bit to help member states that are witnessing the side effects of financial downturn and aspire to meet the eff aspirations. the proposed monetary top-ups will do just this while not exceeding 10% of the maximum ceilings set in the articles of the eff regulation.
mr president, following the eu’s ban on imports of beef and beef products from the us and canada that have been treated with growth-promoting hormones, the us and canada were subsequently authorised by the wto to authorise and impose trade sanctions on eu agricultural products. this had a high impact on farmers and producers across the eu. i am therefore pleased that a resolution has now been found to this trade dispute. the agreement to gradually lift sanctions placed on eu agricultural products in exchange for an autonomous tariff quota on high-quality beef which has not been treated with the hormones will benefit both sides of the atlantic and will help, hopefully, to rebuild and strengthen trade relations in this sector.
mr president, 40 years ago the united kingdom voted to join a common market. i am not sure that we understood then and i am not sure even now, after 40 years, that we fully appreciate the distinction between a free market and a customs union. a free trade area means that goods and services and capital circulate without restrictions. it is the kind of deal that switzerland enjoys with the european union and one cannot help noticing that the swiss seem to be doing pretty well with it. in a customs union, of course, you are dragged into a common commercial policy and a common external tariff. it is has been particularly disastrous to the united kingdom, the country which did the highest percentage of its trade, without the eu, to non-european markets. we are linked into a market of similar industrialised economies, having cut ourselves off from our natural hinterland of producers. i never tire of pointing out to this house that we have confined ourselves in a cramped and declining customs union, while standing aside from the bits of the world where the growth still is, not least the wider community of english-speaking democracies. truly our fathers made a wretched decision.
mr president, given the difficult history of transatlantic trade relations in animal products that was started by the dispute on beef hormones and chlorine-dipped chicken, the adoption of the regulation put forward today in this report is important and my ecr group voted in favour. we believe that the regulation reinforces the vital trade links that are already in existence across the atlantic and will also improve access to the market on both sides, leading to more confidence. though the products initially affected by the ban on hormone-treated beef were few and accounted for a small volume of trade, those products affected by the subsequent retaliatory eu sanctions were far more numerous, and we hope that these sanctions will steadily be lifted and trade barriers broken down as a result of ongoing negotiations. the regulation proposed therefore will, we believe, strengthen the long-standing transatlantic economic relationship in terms of trade, and bring economic benefits to both sides. usa-eu political and trade relations must be our number one priority, due to our shared common democratic values.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report – although i had some concerns initially – because i believe in the long term this report has the ability to create a win-win situation for both the eu and canada and the united states. the report creates a way past some of the destructive dynamics of trade sanctions and tariffs that were founded back in the 1980s and as a result of the bans on imports of beef and beef products that had been treated by hormones into the eu from the us and canada. these tariffs have amounted to usd 116 million every year in the us. canada and the us recently lifted their sanctions in the hope of creating an autonomous zero duty and tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef, not treated with hormones. to create the win-win situation for all involved, the eu needed the support of meps and this report will provide initially some 20 000 tonnes of high-quality beef annually. the final settlement of the beef hormone dispute will create further momentum towards greater economic and commercial integration between the eu and the us.
mr president, while this is a technical report which updates procedures to take into account the new scrutiny regime contained in the lisbon treaty, it will have important consequences for the future content of these regulations. the new role the parliament now has under delegated acts means that we must take this scrutiny role seriously. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we spend a lot of time deciding whether something is a truly technical measure that should be dealt with under implementing measures or whether it should be a delegated act in relation to which we then have the right of recall. on the issue of commercial policy, i am certain that this balance is just as difficult as it is on financial services issues, and i am positive that this report, as it stands, has achieved the right balance.
mr president, along with my political group, the european conservatives and reformists, i would like to see a significant reduction of the eu budget. i therefore cannot support this report, as it defends the size of a proposed, larger eu budget, which at this time i cannot justify to my constituents in wales. a number of eu member states are implementing harsh austerity measures which have had a devastating impact on people’s livelihoods. in this light, therefore, it would be completely unjustifiable to defend any increase in the eu budget. all eu institutions need to demonstrate the ability to tighten budgets at this difficult economic time. the 2013 budget should reflect this.
mr president, three things are certain in life: death, taxes and constant rises in the eu budget. our gross and net contributions as a country are shooting up, and it is not just us. at a time when all 27 member states are looking to find cuts in their domestic spending, all of those savings are being swallowed up in their higher contributions to brussels. now we are told that all this money is being used to create jobs and stimulate prosperity. those members who do not read english might like to look at frédéric bastiat on the question of creating jobs, the question of seen and unseen costs. every euro that we take out of the private sector to create jobs is a euro that would have otherwise been spent on creating actual wealth. the only jobs we are creating here are the jobs of people whose job is to destroy genuine job creation: the licensors, the inspectors, the clerks, the compliance officers, the whole regulatory machine of eu enforcement. how can we carry on in a system where, in order to pay for these constantly rising budgets, simply in the time that i have been speaking my constituents have handed over something like gbp 120 000? so i am going to stop speaking and sit down.
mr president, this report calls for collective efforts to help the european economy. what it means in practice is more europe and more money. i am totally committed to an agenda of growth and jobs. however, i do not believe that the way to achieve it is with more europe. we need less red tape and fewer regulations, which will leave businesses free to flourish. this parliament has squandered its opportunity to send out a strong signal. we should have called on the commission to deliver more for less money. we should have reflected the will of our citizens and called for a freeze on the european budget, but as usual we chickened out, and that is why i cannot support this report.
mr president, i voted against this report. once again, further political integration is cited as a prerequisite for dealing with the economic and social woes of the eu. i would contend that, rather than being the firm foundation or the cornerstone of any future recovery, the desire for political integration is the sinking sand that has led to the eu facing economic collapse. yet ideology still blinds reality, and while that remains the case the much-needed recovery will not occur at a satisfactory pace. the report states that austerity being imposed in member states should not be replicated in the eu budget. what arrogance! indeed the report demands yet more money from member states to the eu. ‘do as i say, not as i do’ seems to be the message that emanates from this parliament so often. it is time to cut the waste from the eu budget. target resources effectively to promote growth and, importantly, lead by example.
mr president, whilst in principle i can support measures which enhance cross-border coordination and the sharing of best practice across the eu in the field of civil law, i am unable, however, to support this resolution on judicial training. at present there are already a number of online tools and initiatives available which aim to resolve cross-border legal problems that may be encountered. it seems, therefore, that this would duplicate initiatives which already exist. moreover, the proposal for the establishment of ‘erasmus of judges’ networks seems to be wholly unnecessary and a complete waste of eu resources. this resolution does not respect the principle of subsidiarity and, as judicial systems are firmly matters for member states, we should refrain from harmonising or centralising such issues.
mr president, the un convention on the rights of the child makes clear the importance of education; in particular it states that parties shall make primary education compulsory and freely available to all. i do not need to spell out the importance of this in the development of young children into responsible literate adults who can play active roles in society. so it is with the utmost urgency that we must assist in tackling the problem that is the 215 million children across the world who continue to engage in labour activities which should be abolished. by its very nature – a labour-intensive, often family-run enterprise – cocoa farming can, in some instances, pose a major problem. west africa, where 70% of the world’s cocoa is cultivated, is the obvious example. progress in abolishing the use of child labour is hampered by ongoing conflict in the region and it is also difficult to change attitudes amongst families and communities. i recognise that there are work activities which are acceptable for children to participate in, as long as the opportunity remains for educational activity. however, cocoa farming has been shown to pose major risks for child labourers often without the opportunity for education. i therefore support the resolution voted on today opposing the use of forced child labour in the cocoa industry.
mr president, child labour in any sector is something that the eu should play a part in eradicating around the world. by refusing to sign trade agreements with uzbekistan, which continues to use child labour in cotton picking, it will make other regions in the world realise that, in order to continue trading with the eu, they do have to reach basic minimum standards of rights. this report cites the statistic that 215 million children across the world are currently engaged in child labour, a shocking figure in this day and age. ultimately, we must continue to use our trading power to eradicate these abuses and hopefully show other countries that educating their children, instead of putting them to work at such a young age, is the real way to achieve growth and a more vibrant and intelligent economy in the future.
mr president, it is estimated that approximately 250 000 children, many against their will, work in the cocoa plantations in west africa. in recent years there has been some progress through programmes and initiatives aimed at combating the worst forms of child labour. however there is still much work to be done. the ivory coast exports nearly half the world’s cocoa. this is a country ravaged by years of civil war with the majority of its citizens in extreme poverty. as a result, cocoa farms have traditionally been worked by the family unit, children included, in order to reduce labour costs. therefore i believe that the only way to break the cycle of child labour is through combating such poverty. this is the only way that countries such as the ivory coast can progress – through the building of roads, hospitals, social centres and in particular schools – to give the children and their parents a chance of a better future.
mr president, removing trade barriers and involving both producer and consumer countries alongside the private sector is the way in which the global market ought to operate and is what we should be striving to facilitate in more sectors. one of the most important aspects of this report relates to its requirement to produce more analysis, statistics and impact assessments on what the causes of trade barriers are in this particular sector. i hope this will inform the decisions of global bodies as they look to better regulate the commodities markets more widely. we need to ensure we have specific data on every asset class in order to provide a highly sophisticated mechanism for our commodities and agricultural derivative products that will not curb the activities of the producers and consumers whose trade we are encouraging with this cocoa agreement.
mr president, at present it is thought that almost 10% of the eu population is affected in some form by diabetes. with the increase in obesity and an ageing population, this number has been projected to increase dramatically over the coming years. both type 1 and type 2 diabetes are treatable and, as type 2 is linked to lifestyle factors, it can be addressed by effective preventative strategies such as increasing exercise and making adjustments to diet. whilst healthcare is a national competence, it is sensible that a joined-up approach is taken and that sharing best practice and enhanced cooperation between member states, particularly in research and in the development of new tools to diagnose diabetes at an earlier stage, are put into place. it would be equally beneficial for member states to share their knowledge on disease management and treatment guidelines so that the best preventative and treatment regimes can be adopted. i therefore support the joint resolution which seeks to address the eu diabetes epidemic as i believe that an eu strategy would be beneficial in this instance, particularly with the additional strain this disease is putting on the welsh healthcare budget in current economically difficult times.
mr president, across the uk nearly 3 million people suffer from diabetes. with obesity on the rise and an ageing population, the estimated cost of diabetes on the healthcare system is expected to increase to nearly 10% of our annual healthcare budget. this is not isolated to the uk. figures show that approximately one in ten people in the eu are affected by this. while healthcare is a member state competency and responsibility, i believe the sharing of best practice will be hugely beneficial. the concept of an eu strategy which aims to improve cooperation, share research and spread best practice is an opportunity to utilise the knowledge and resources the eu has available. this is an epidemic we can take control of if we act together. i therefore supported this report.
mr president, recent figures show that 2.9 million people in the united kingdom have been diagnosed with diabetes. this figure includes those diagnosed in my own constituency of northern ireland with an estimated 73 500 people currently living with this illness. there are thought to be thousands more who have the condition but do not yet know it. diabetes is on the increase in northern ireland, as it is across europe. over the last six years the number of people in my own constituency diagnosed with this condition has increased by almost 41%. a recent report entitled ‘diabetes in the national health service’ estimated a total cost of gbp 3.5 billion per annum. that is over gbp 9.6 million per day to treat this illness. with 100 000 people in the uk diagnosed every year, health costs are spiralling and placing an increased strain on government resources. it is therefore vital that we become more proactive in combating this condition through education and increased awareness, with an emphasis on healthy diet and exercise as a means of prevention.
mr president, i voted in favour of the council and commission statements on addressing the eu diabetes epidemic. healthcare provision is primarily a member state responsibility, but the modest proposals put forward would have a positive impact in the field of diabetes research. diabetes is a chronic disease that affects almost 10% of the total eu population and accounts for over 10% of expenditure across the eu in healthcare. with an ageing european population, these figures are expected to increase. we believe that an eu strategy at the level of consensus on the public health aspects would help to improve cooperation between the member states and provide a mechanism to share best medical practice between healthcare professionals from across the european union in primary prevention diagnosis management and monitoring. i support the calls for continued research funding under the european framework programmes. i declare a personal interest, being both a medical doctor and a middle-aged man and being overweight with a strong family history of diabetes, so i am at a high risk of developing type 2 diabetes, which actually – very sadly – killed my late grandfather.
mr president, i welcome the positive statements in the enlargement report for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i feel that many other accession countries, including serbia – which was accepted last week by the european council for eu candidate status – could look to the example that has been set by macedonia’s engagement with the eu over the last few years. the two countries have faced similar problems in their recent history and need to come to terms with both their own population’s problems and their on-going disputes with their neighbours. macedonia’s dispute over its name with greece should not be directly compared to the situation between belgrade and pristina. however, the sensible way that macedonia is dealing with its neighbours, and the eu as a whole, in order to overcome that dispute, can provide a good starting point on which others, including serbia, could model their approaches over the next few years.
mr president, the ecr supported the howitt report on macedonia. the text calls on the council to confirm the commission’s call for a priority date now to be set for eu accession negotiations to commence, and i back this call. the persistent greek veto over the name issue has gone on far too long. i believe that bilateral issues should not be an obstacle to macedonia’s further eu integration as they have been since the country was given candidate status as far back as 2005. under the leadership of prime minister groevski, macedonia has made progress in the fields of parliamentary cooperation, economic development, inter-ethnic reconciliation, decentralisation, human rights and public administration. the responsible and measured way in which the government has dealt with the recent ethnic tensions between the albanian community and the macedonian slavs in the country is testimony to macedonia’s progress. the recent international court of justice verdict against greece over macedonia’s accession to nato needs to be listened to by the whole of the european union and respected.
mr president, when discussing the enlargement process in relation to iceland, it is very hard to do so solely on the technical level of the copenhagen criteria and acquis, as the situation is very different from that of those member states that have joined the eu since the fall of the berlin wall and the end of communism in europe. yet we must be very careful to be even-handed in our approach and ensure that iceland genuinely does fulfil all of the eu criteria before joining. in the area of financial services we need to be very careful to ensure that iceland’s reformed banking system is now truly following all of the necessary eu regulations in this field. the issue of icesave is still of huge concern in the uk, where many individuals and local authorities lost significant amounts of money because of the lax system of regulation previously in force in iceland. while separating this specific issue out from the accession process might be a sensible approach, i believe we must ensure the issue is resolved as soon as possible and appropriate measures are taken to avoid it happening again.
mr president, there was some rather ugly schadenfreude in this chamber following the collapse of the icelandic banks. a number of federalist colleagues, british and continental, were coming up to me saying, ‘ah, hannan, how are your icelanders doing now. this is what happens to you if you remain standoffish about europe.’ well, who is laughing now? iceland having devalued because it was not in the euro has exported its way to growth and enjoys a rate of growth which is the envy of the eurozone stricken economies and because it did not make this terrible mistake of assuming the bad debts of private institutions, it will begin, once this icesave dispute is cleared, with a debt-to-gdp ratio which is the envy of europe. 67% of icelanders in the last poll are now against eu membership because they understand what it would mean: their resources plundered, their seas emptied, their democracy vitiated, the oldest parliament in the world turned into a local authority chamber. icelanders are a shrewd and canny people with wisdom bred in the bone by hundreds of years of struggling in difficult conditions. they know far better than to throw away their freedom.
mr president, i voted against this resolution not because i believe iceland should not become a member of the eu but because the resolution states that money owed by iceland’s landsbanki after the collapse of icesave must not be an obstacle to accession. as a conservative mep for london i cannot possibly agree to these terms. local authorities in london are suffering from painful cuts after the economic downturn and thirteen years of wasteful labour government. six london councils had a total of gbp 120 million invested in icesave; transport for london invested a further gbp 40 million and london’s metropolitan police, gbp 30 million. these councils and organisations have not seen a penny of their money back since the bank’s collapse in october 2008. the icelandic government is dodging its legal obligation to pay minimum compensation to these and other british debtors. margaret thatcher once said: we are simply asking to have our own money back. that is what we are asking of iceland. until they pay up i cannot support their membership.
mr president, i voted against iceland joining the eu because i think, as two-thirds of icelandic people thought in a poll just last month, that iceland would be mad to join the eu. mad because membership would destroy iceland’s key industry – fishing – through the disastrous common fisheries policy, just as it has destroyed 100 000 jobs in the uk in fishing and nearly all the fishing in my own constituency of the east of england. mad because they would have to join the disastrous euro as well and abandon the free floating króna, which has brought a boom in exports. mad too because its economy would be weighed down with a barrage of eu red tape. its growth rate is currently 3.1%, whereas the eu’s gdp forecast is 0 for this year. why risk it? as for icesave, there are other legal mechanisms outside the eu, such as the efta court, which has already ruled that iceland must pay up. so we must stop kidding ourselves in the eu that iceland wants to join. iceland’s sane option, as i believe britain’s is too, is to stay proud, independent and self-governing.
mr president, there is a constituency within the united kingdom whose advice to iceland would be to learn from the uk’s mistake and stay out of the eu. another opinion this parliament should consider is that, if you apply for membership of any club, you usually precede your application with a clear demonstration of your eligibility for membership by complying with the existing rules of the club. in respect of fisheries management, specifically regarding mackerel, iceland has ignored such a commitment and wants to rewrite the rules before it joins the club. if this parliament has any principles, it should send a clear message to iceland that its behaviour in respect of mackerel is unacceptable and sets a dangerous precedent in terms of how iceland might flout the eu’s plethora of other regulations.
mr president, i voted along with the ecr in favour of the enlargement report on bosnia and herzegovina. we believe that the report highlights some important issues in this complex and divided country. particularly important is the need for the central state and its institutions in sarajevo to be strengthened and respected before it can progress further, and we support the proposition that eu presence in the country should be increased. the fight against corruption in the country must also be continued robustly and the report calls for reform in many areas, particularly of the judiciary and education systems and in the protection of minorities, which of course are extremely important topics. the bih government must also address the rise of imported wahhabi extremism in the region and must investigate the security threat that it poses. the report is right to highlight this, as radicalising one section of the community against another confession does not augur well for the future, for peace or for nation-building in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the commission recognises that the sustained financial and economic crisis is increasing the pressure on national financial resources. in this context, it considers ensuring a smooth implementation of cohesion programmes to be of particular importance as a tool for injecting funds into the economy. nonetheless, the liquidity problems resulting from budget constraints are making it difficult to implement the programmes, particularly in the member states which have been most affected by the crisis. in order to ensure that these member states continue the implementation of the european fisheries fund (eff) programmes on the ground and disburse funds to projects, the commission proposal contains provisions that would allow increased payments to be made to these countries for the period they are under the support mechanisms. this increase will not impose any additional financial burden on the overall budget.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the dispute concerning beef hormones negatively affected transatlantic trade relations in agricultural products for more than two decades. in 1988 the eu banned imports of beef and beef products treated with certain growth-promoting hormones for reasons of consumer protection and food safety. in 1996 the united states and canada challenged the ban in the wto dispute settlement system and were subsequently authorised to impose trade sanctions on agricultural products imported from the eu. since 1999 the us and canada have imposed retaliatory tariffs on a wide range of european products, respectively worth usd 116.8 million and cad 11.3 million a year.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal in which the rapporteur is tabling a report which is based on the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon and by the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and which systematically incorporates those changes into the secondary law of the common commercial policy. the report fleshes out the provisions of the commission proposal in relation to the substance of all 26 regulations. it weighs up the pros and cons of using delegated acts and implementing provisions and compares the advisory and examination procedures. the result is a balanced relationship among the various legal instruments which takes into account the substantive and legal interests of all parties concerned, the legislation which has been in force since 1 december 2009 and the institutional interests of the three european institutions.
in writing. − my position on the budget of the european union is very clear: i consider it to be an added tax on the member states. in particular, the uk is taxed more heavily because it is a net contributor with an increasing contribution. i want to see the budget completely eliminated, with a 10% reduction each year, starting this year. for this reason i could not support the ecr amendment number 25, which is inadequate as it only calls for a freeze.
in writing. − my position on the budget of the european union is very clear: i consider it to be an added tax on the member states. in particular, the uk is taxed more heavily because it is a net contributor with an increasing contribution. i want to see the budget completely eliminated, with a 10% reduction each year, starting this year. for this reason i could not support the ecr amendment number 25, which is inadequate as it only calls for a freeze.
in writing. − i voted against this report because amendment 25, which called for a freeze in the eu budget for 2013, was rejected.
in writing. − i voted to set up a new parliamentary committee specifically to investigate the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, to look at its impact on the european union and its member states, and to propose appropriate measures to fight these threats.
in writing. − i wholly object to the content of the website in question. however, i object in principle to efforts to close down discussion on certain areas of public policy, in particular on immigration and ‘multiculturalism’. these are matters of enormous public concern, which successive governments in many countries, as well as the eu, have failed properly to address and which can now barely be discussed. equally, the netherlands government must remain free to determine its own european policy and should not be criticised by the european parliament for expressing doubts about schengen. finally, it is not within the remit of the european parliament to instruct a sitting european prime minister on the course of action that he should take on a domestic political question. i therefore abstained in the vote on the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creation of a special parliamentary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the committee has a year to evaluate the extent of organised crime’s impact on the eu economy and society and recommend legislative and other measures to enable the eu to respond to these threats at international, european and national levels. misappropriation of public funds, infiltration of the public sector and contamination of the legal economy and financial system are some of the key threats posed by criminal organisations in the eu. the special committee is to start work by the end of april 2012, and will have the power to hold hearings with eu and national institutions from all over the world. i believe that the formation of this committee reflects the institutions’ persistence that they will not back down to organised crime.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which among other things proposes that the commission hold an annual forum at which judges of all levels of seniority in areas of law where domestic and cross-border issues frequently arise can hold discussions on a recent area or areas of legal controversy or difficulty, in order to encourage discussion, build contacts, create channels of communication and build mutual confidence and understanding. the resolution also states that such a forum could also afford an opportunity for the competent authorities, training providers and experts, including the universities and the professional bodies, to discuss judicial training policy and the future of legal education in europe
in writing. − 70% of the world’s cocoa is produced in west africa, where many farms employ children that are trafficked and forced to work in conditions akin to slavery. progress in eradicating child labour is now in the hands of the chocolate industry, which must use its power and its profits to end this shameful practice. we all enjoy giving our children easter eggs, but if one thinks of the conditions of the west african children in the cocoa regions, it takes away the fun of easter. ten years ago, the big chocolate companies promised to get rid of child trafficking in the cocoa industry in west africa, but there is still only a tiny amount of ‘traffik free’ chocolate. according the charity stop the traffik, in these ten years, the cocoa industry has earned gbp 600 billion. only 0.0075% of this has been invested in improving working conditions in west africa. i always recommend fair trade chocolate wherever possible.
in writing. − tackling forced child labour is a large ongoing task. i supported this report to help enable the eradication of child labour in the cocoa industry. the production of chocolate is very labour-intensive and can include exposure to pesticides. furthermore studies suggest children have been trafficked to work in this sector, which causes great concern. this report will encourage everyone in the chain of production - from growers to governments- to play their part in combating forced child labour, and is a starting point for further action.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement. the 2010 international cocoa agreement will replace the existing 2001 agreement, to which the eu is a party. the new agreement’s objectives are to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and with the private sector; contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of member countries; strive towards obtaining fair prices, leading to equitable economic returns to both producers and consumers; promote a sustainable cocoa economy in economic, social and environmental terms; promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies; strive for the elimination of trade barriers; promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa-based products; and encourage members to enhance cocoa quality. overall, the agreement intends to bring more transparency and sustainability into a sector on which 50 million livelihoods throughout the world depend.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission to develop and implement a targeted eu diabetes strategy in the form of a council recommendation on diabetes prevention, diagnosis, management, education and research and to draw up common, standardised criteria and methods for data collection on diabetes, and, in collaboration with the member states, to coordinate, collect, register, monitor and manage comprehensive epidemiological data on diabetes and economic data on the direct and indirect costs of diabetes prevention and management.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect more than 32 million eu citizens, representing nearly 10% of the total eu population. i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe a dedicated eu strategy to tackle its growing diabetes problem is essential in order to improve research cooperation and focus on prevention and early diagnosis. the member states should ensure adequate education on healthy eating and physical exercise in schools. i believe, along with my fellow meps, that early diagnosis should be made a priority in member states’ national programmes.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes the decision of the international court of justice with respect to the name dispute issued on 5 december 2011; takes the view that this decision should give a new impetus to ensure that every possible effort is made to solve the name dispute under the auspices of the un, and calls on the parties to comply with the judgment in good faith and use it to intensify dialogue, stressing at the same time the need for a mutually accepted compromise; welcomes in this regard the statement by the un-appointed mediator and his call on the parties to view this event as an opportunity to think constructively about their mutual relationship and to consider a renewed initiative with a view to reaching a definitive solution to this issue and strongly regrets that the name dispute is continuing to block the country’s road to eu accession and thus hindering the enlargement process itself; underlines that good neighbourly relations are a key criterion for the eu enlargement process and calls on the governments concerned to avoid controversial gestures, controversial actions and statements which could have negative effects on relations.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which notes with satisfaction the establishment of the constitutional council and the ongoing process of the review of the icelandic constitution aimed at increasing democratic safeguards, strengthening checks and balances, improving the functioning of the state institutions and better defining their respective roles and powers. it also welcomes the efforts to strengthen the role and efficiency of the icelandic parliament (althingi) by reinforcing its oversight role, as well as the transparency of the legislative process.
in writing. − i rather doubt that iceland wants to join the eu, or indeed that it is in iceland’s best interests. but if that is what the people want then we should support them. iceland has had close ties with the uk for hundreds of years, is a nato ally, has a deeply-entrenched democracy and occupies a geographical position of strategic importance. but it has been badly damaged in its self-inflicted banking crisis. there are also sticking points. one, inevitably, is the icesave issue: it is important that the british and dutch exchequers, which bailed out british and dutch depositors after the 2008 bankruptcy of icesave bank, are compensated. i understand that progress is being made on this issue outside the accession procedure. there is also a dispute over icelandic mackerel quotas. the uk opposes the current increase in iceland’s mackerel quota, as this is not sustainable and is damaging british interests. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which underlines the need for bosnia and herzegovina to effectively combat trafficking in human beings in cooperation with the international community, to prosecute perpetrators, to provide protection and compensation to the victims and to raise awareness to prevent revictimisation by the authorities and society. it also calls for enhanced cooperation and partnership between competent authorities across various policy areas and ngos from the country and the region and for the awareness of bih police forces regarding human trafficking to be raised through the development of special training courses. finally, it encourages the continuous support of the eu in the area of human trafficking, and asks for close cooperation on the matter between dg elarg, dg home and the eu anti-trafficking coordinator.
in writing. − while further progress is still to be made in bosnia and herzegovina, particularly with respect to strengthening the central government and its institutions, i welcome the progress that has been made as outlined in the country’s enlargement report. nevertheless, further reforms need to be carried out in areas such as the judiciary, protection of minorities, the economy and fighting corruption, which is hindering the socio-economic and political development of the country. the apparent rise of extremism needs to be investigated and appropriate action should be taken to eliminate this threat. the increased eu presence in the country, in the guise of an eu representative with a dual mandate of eu special representative and head of delegation responsible for offering advice, should assist the political process further.
mr president, it is quite clear that mr putin has no friends in this chamber, even though mr swoboda believes somehow that mr medvedev’s promises will turn into reality. but mr kowal says that we should tell it like it is, and our resolution would be a credit to cathy ashton. i believe that the european parliament should stop ‘business as usual’ with the putin regime. i think the eu should stop playing it safe. i think we should use all the measures at our command to put pressure on the putin regime for genuine reform. we should stop discussing fruitless treaties and start being unsafe. let us start with the chamber next door. in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, david cameron’s mps – 18 of them – sit with 16 members of the united russia party from the duma. this house has recommended that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe should regard the duma delegation as illegitimate. mr kowal, let us, as you say, tell it like it is and let us start at home, in the european union, where people play games with politics. you have said that the european union is losing respect. yes, because we do not tell it like it is. so let us start here, and the next resolution we pass on russia should not be something that looks as if it comes from the eeas, but something that comes from the european parliament.
mr president, as an observer in moscow at the duma elections, i witnessed a robust system which is far more democratic than the fraud-ridden shambles in britain. if observers come to elections in london this may they will find hundreds of thousands of non-existent ghosts voting by post without any kind of id check. they will see flimsy cardboard ballot boxes with voting papers falling out of gaps at the bottom, mainly under the control of appointees of baroness ashton’s labour party. at least the russians have elections. baroness ashton became one of the most powerful figures in post-democratic europe without a single vote. and who elected the technocrats now asset-stripping occupied greece and italy? we all know the real reasons for the attacks on putin. george soros and his banker friends want to privatise and loot russia just like they are looting the west. so forget about the specks of dust in mr putin’s eye and remove the giant planks of electoral fraud and elite greed from the european union’s.
mr president, so we are all supposed to get exercised about the state of democracy in russia? in fact the enemies of democracy are much closer to home. in 2004, belgium banned the vlaams blok, as though banning political parties was quite consistent with democracy. in germany, in 2001 there were attempts to ban the mpd on the basis of evidence that was found by the constitutional court to have been fabricated by state agents. was this in communist east germany? no, it was in the federal republic. in the uk, the bbc is a law unto itself. if you are an establishment stooge, you have unlimited access. if you are a genuine opponent of the establishment, you are talked about but rarely given access. at least the internet is free, or so we thought. however, yesterday in this chamber, we saw establishment politicians and an eu commissar – yes, you did hear that correctly – drooling about the possibility of using eu and dutch law to close down the website of the dutch freedom party and prosecute and jail its leader.
mr president, as the standing rapporteur for (sound disappears) i am particularly concerned by the situation in kazakhstan where, as we are hearing from many other speakers, fundamental rights continue to be violated. i find it completely unacceptable that, following his recent meeting here in strasbourg with meps to discuss the tragedy in zhanaozen, vladimir kozlov, the leader of the opposition political party alga, was arrested by the kazakh committee of national security on his return to the country. mr kozlov, as well as other political opponents of the government, was sentenced and put in prison. more recently, i have also met with some kazakh civil society activists, including mrs kozlov, and i was extremely concerned to hear that mr kozlov has recently undergone surgery while in prison but that his current state of health is not known. nobody, including his wife, is allowed any contact with him. journalists i have also met have been intimidated and threatened with arrest if they write anything against the regime in kazakhstan. so i think we should call on the kazakh authorities to end the clampdown on the political opposition and independent media in the country and to immediately release all people incarcerated on politically-motivated grounds.
mr president, last year in kazakhstan i met and publicised the case of evgeniy zhovtis, a human rights defender, who was imprisoned on allegedly false charges and released only last month. on 18 january 2012 i met opposition leader vladimir kozlov, who was arrested on his return to the country. this week i met the wife of kazakh journalist igor vinyavski, who is charged with seeking to overturn the constitution for simply organising a press conference. civil society representatives at the same meetings tell me that police claim they opened fire in self defence at zhanaozen, yet the videos show that the protestors were running away. these meetings should end because the abuses must end. the release of evgeniy and of natalya sokolova show that pressure does have some effect. we restate that pressure today, and i call on the eu’s delegation to attend and observe all the related cases in the court. we are watching and, if those who speak to us are targeted, we will speak out.
mr president, kazakhstan is a geopolitically strategic country in central asia with large energy reserves. it is also a model of peaceful christian/muslim coexistence. it has recently offered a secure route to evacuate british isaf troops as a substitute for the precarious pakistani route. i have no illusions that this country is a western-style democracy, but neither is it a repressive totalitarian state. i sympathise, of course, with the tragic loss of life in december, and this must be fully investigated and any police who use disproportionate force must be brought to justice. i do feel, however, that there can be no doubt that there is a real risk of jihadi violence in this vast country, and we should support their fight against terrorism. more reform is necessary in terms of media freedom, democracy and fundamental human rights, and this is incredibly important. but we must not drive kazakhstan into the arms of russia and china, who have little or no interest in human rights at all.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i last spoke on nigeria in 2010 after the jos massacres. recent events, following repeated atrocities and kidnappings by the jihadi group boko haram, remind us that nigeria sadly is a chronically unstable country. by rights nigeria as the most populated and oil-rich country in sub-saharan africa should be vying for a permanent seat with south africa on the un security council, but instead there are now concerns about a civil war between the muslim-majority north and christian-majority south, to which are added ethnic, cultural and economic tensions in nigeria. the central government struggles against these factors and in fighting the still very widespread corruption in public life. the added element of a secessionist insurgency from the movement for the emancipation of the niger delta makes the security situation particularly precarious in this country. the introduction of sharia law in 12 states, in contradiction of the secular, federal constitution, also causes widespread fear amongst christians in the north and there are increasing concerns about the long-term sustainability of nigeria as a unitary state. the recent brave attempts on 8 march by the british special boat service to free the kidnapped italian engineer franco lamolinara and british christopher mcmanus ended in the tragic death of both individuals and i extend on behalf of my group my deepest sympathies to the families of the deceased. boko haram and all those responsible should be held accountable for the murder of these two eu citizens. president goodluck jonathan struggles to bring order and security to his country and is committed to fighting corruption and ending massive economic subsidies such as to fuel, in order to restore free market economics to nigeria’s large economy. we in the eu should give every support to his government. any further escalation of violence will have massive repercussions in west africa and result in large flows of refugees to europe, particularly to my country, the united kingdom.
mr president, i very much welcome the opportunity, at long last, to have a debate on nigeria. it is a major country, as we have heard, which is extremely important in the region and potentially internationally. i very much regret that the only way we seem to be able to discuss events in nigeria is via yet another resolution which has taken religion as its focus. i want to respond to some of what has been said today. let us be clear here that, while boko haram is the major force behind the violence, they are not killing only christians. muslims have died too. they have also assassinated muslims who do not agree with them. however, there have also been muslim deaths where christians – or so-called christians – have retaliated. we have also seen these events being condemned by political and faith leaders from a variety of different perspectives. it is very important to remember what has been said about what links this country, and not just what divides it. yes, corruption is an issue. there is more that we could be doing. i, for one, very much welcome the recent trial in british courts of ibori, a former governor of delta state, which put him in jail. there is more that our own countries can do to deal with corruption. the people of nigeria want a government that is fit for purpose. that is why, as we have heard, they were willing to stand for hours in the sun waiting to vote. however, i believe that the european union too needs to change its relationship with nigeria and that this parliament should be strengthening its relationships with the nigerian parliament.
mr president, coming from northern ireland, i know only too well the fear and the pain the nigerian people are suffering as the result of the wanton violence of terrorist groups who kill others because of their religion. the broad christian population of nigeria is living in fear. suicide bombers have targeted places of worship. in late february in the city of jos, three people died as a bomb was driven into a church in but one of the latest attacks. the terrorists gave this chilling warning: we attacked simply because it is a church, and we can decide to attack any church. we have just started. it seems that the militant islamists of boko haram desire to rid nigeria of its christian population. of course i accept the point made by others in this house that others apart from christians have suffered and died, and i want to make it clear that i condemn all these attacks. losing your life because of your religion is not acceptable. we in this house should call it for what it is. it is not simply all about poverty or corruption, but it is about attacking a particular section of society.
mr president, nigeria is still a recipient of aid after 50 years of independence. it suffers from a lack of economic development and the majority of its inhabitants live below the poverty line. is nigeria so poor because it lacks resources? no. it is the world’s eighth largest oil producer. this really is a puzzle. nigeria is suffering from civil strife, a euphemism for islamist violence against native christians and europeans working to industrialise the country out of poverty. what can have caused these problems? it cannot, of course, be because of the nature of islam or of course anything to do with ethnicity. these must be ‘no-go areas’ of course. a nigerian i once knew well blamed it on the colonialists, who drew straight lines on the map and included incompatible peoples arbitrarily in the same political state. this undoubtedly contributed to one war, the biafran secession in 1967. of course, we europeans would not make the same mistake would we? we would not dream of filling up the states of europe with incompatible peoples. well, would we? of course we would not…!
the recent attacks on christians in nigeria come amid worsening religious and ethnic tensions leading to deterioration in the precarious human rights situation in the country. i utterly condemn the suicide bombing of a service at st. finbar’s church in jos on 11 march which killed at least four people. my sympathies are with the families of the dead and wounded and i call upon the nigerian federal and state governments to bring those behind the bombing to justice while doing more to protect vulnerable communities, especially christians, in northern and central parts of the country. the eu must support stability in nigeria. however, nigeria must demonstrate its willingness to end religious strife as well as re-commit itself to guaranteeing basic human rights including freedom of religion. the nigerian government must intervene in cases of those tried under sharia law, especially those sentenced to death, amputation, flogging or other inhuman treatments. i am particularly concerned about women who are being lashed for committing adultery, especially in instances of rape. nigeria must also show respect for the rights of its lgbt community and reconsider legislation criminalising homosexuality, which under sharia law in the north is punishable by stoning to death.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, parliament started to draft a resolution on this, led by the committee on transport and tourism, for which i am the green shadow. we recognise that maritime piracy is an extremely complicated and problematic issue, but we also believe that it is a horizontal one incorporating development, security and foreign affairs aspects, while the link with transport issues is more secondary. i am given to understand that the reason why the transport committee is the leading committee is because the commission’s directorate-general for mobility and transport wants to lead on this instead of dg development. greens are completely against this shift, as solutions to maritime piracy do not lie primarily with changes to transport policy. therefore we welcome the fact that this resolution was taken off the agenda for this plenary session. if parliament is determined to have a resolution on this, we think it should be led by another committee such as the subcommittee on security and defence, as well as being better timed in order to tie in with the external work and developments. apart from the fact that we do not think that the transport committee should be leading on this issue, the solutions in the draft resolution are not in line with previous parliament resolutions on piracy, somalia and the horn of africa. furthermore, they are too militarily based. we are against further militarisation and strongly in favour of strengthening the criminal justice approach to piracy, as advocated by the united nations special advisor on piracy, mr jack lang. this ultimately would also need a change in any future resolution from this place on this issue.
madam president, what a pity the european union does not focus its comprehensive approach more effectively on some of the civil areas the commissioner has described so well. i am sorry to say that in regard to piracy, as in so many other areas, the european union has confused its own institutional ambitions with practical reality, and i am referring here to naval operations. since 2008, nato using naval forces from north american and european allies has been engaged in both counter-piracy and maritime counter-terrorism operations in the red sea, the indian ocean and in the gulf areas. but during its presidency, france saw an opportunity to open a new chapter in eu defence policy and create a maritime dimension for the european union. operation atalanta was born. and the upshot i have to say is costly confusion. there are now at least three multinational naval operations as well as deployments from individual countries such as russia, india, china and japan. there have been some successes, but attacks have escalated and the risk of serious consequences for pirates, as the commissioner has said, is still too low to outweigh the lucrative rewards. in january 2012, 80 pirates were captured by counter-piracy forces in the gulf of aden and the indian ocean, 75% of these were captured by nato ships, yet maintaining the political will and naval assets for nato’s operation ocean shield has been a challenge, particularly when more or less the same naval assets are being called on for an eu operation. the european union should do something comprehensive on the civil side. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, we have got to get our facts right here. there were nato combined task groups operating in the red sea and indian ocean well before atalanta was dreamed up. this was purely an initiative of the french presidency acting out of djibouti and that is what brought it all about. what i am talking about is the way the european union has military ambitions. it should leave military operations to those that know how to do it. we have a very good international alliance for that and it is called nato. one of the earlier speakers mentioned the lack of resources that are deployed. well, no wonder there is a lack of resources because we have got the same navies producing ships for two different international naval operations. it is ridiculous. the european union brings no additional naval assets to the table. it does not contribute anything additionally from a naval point of view. so by all means. there is a lot to be done and even the european union could do something useful if it focused its efforts on some of the civil activities which we have heard described this evening. but leave the military operations to those that know what they are doing. it is just going to waste money and overstretch our very depleted military forces.
madam president, the issue of maritime piracy is becoming more and more urgent. we see ransom negotiations not just taking longer, but record ransoms being demanded and the piracy itself becoming more and more violent. maritime safety is an absolutely fundamental issue for the european union, and particularly for those nations like the uk, greece and spain which have significant shipping interests. however, the fight against piracy cannot and will not be won alone by military means. we need to promote peace and we need development and state-building in somalia. the eu is the biggest aid donor to somalia. we should welcome a fresh approach based on land-based solutions, which would replace the income from piracy with that from economic development on land. i call on the commission to tackle the lack of economic data that we have, so that the eu can focus its aid on the most relevant sectors. we know about the potential of the livestock and fisheries sector, but we need to look to other sectors. i would also call for better cooperation with the somalia diaspora, which has so far been ignored, but which plays a major role in supporting the somali economy, particularly through remittances. it is suggested that these remittances could be as much as eur 800 million every year. from a local point of view, we have a large somali community in my constituency in birmingham. therefore, i call on the member states to strengthen their integration policy towards the somali diaspora. i welcome the progress that has been made with the joint financial board, and i also agree that we need a short-term plan to protect our ships and protect our maritime transport and trade, whether that is through atalanta or through nato or through some form of better coordination between the two. this does not necessarily have to be just a short-term plan, as we also need a long-term plan. somalia remains one of the poorest countries in the world, where a quarter of the population rely on the world food programme. now that we have this window of opportunity, with progress being made in reconciling the warring factions, we need to take advantage of the situation and move forward with development.
rapporteur. − mr president, last week i was in my constituency in the city of carlisle, standing on a muddy patch of ground where a new supermarket is being built, watching a drilling machine digging holes in the ground to about a 60-metre depth down which cold water will be pumped and from which warmer water will emerge, providing the heating system for the new supermarket. this ground source heat pump system will save the developers about gbp 100 000 a year and have a payback of eight years at most, possibly less. if these are the steps we have to take to develop a low carbon economy – drilling a few holes in the ground – it does not seem that difficult to me. but there are two lessons to be learned from this. the first is that the financial mechanism alone should have encouraged supermarket developers and the like to invest in simple technology of this kind, but often it takes regulation to make it: financial mechanisms alone have not stimulated the market sufficiently. secondly, it takes time. one building here, one building there will not make much difference. but every large building constructed over the next 40 years will make a difference. endorsement of the commission’s roadmap for a competitive low carbon economy by 2050 provides the framework for measures to enable us to reduce our emissions of carbon dioxide by more than 80% over the next few decades. because i, together with this house, believe that global warming presents a threat to billions on this planet in the coming decades, that is something important to us all. but i accept what the polish environment minister said in his letter to colleagues at the environment council last week. he had some good arguments, saying, for example, that europe, with only 12% of the world’s emissions, cannot solve the problems of the world. of course that is correct. it does not mean to say that we cannot take a lead. he also said that we must be careful not to lose industry, and that is also correct: we do not want to lose jobs overseas as a result of the measures we take to deal with climate change. but let us not exaggerate this; let us not pretend that we have lost most of these jobs because of climate change measures – they have gone because of many, many other reasons, not because of the emissions trading system or anything like it. what was really missing from the argument put forward by the polish minister was that the dynamics of the process of actually setting targets and introducing the appropriate regulations can drive forward innovation. look at the car industry: look at how, when we passed legislation just three years ago, it was bitterly resisted by industry – and yet they far exceeded the co2 reduction targets we set. they have done a brilliant job and not simply reduced their emissions but made their vehicles more fuel-efficient so that they are cheaper to drive, with consumers thereby getting a better deal. that really is a win-win situation for europe and for our industry. frankly, if the arguments of the polish environment minister had been applied, we would not have got to that situation now. i believe that the roadmap can stimulate technology and give greater certainty for investors. do people in poland really think that if they are building a coal-fired power station now, with a lifetime of 30 or 40 years, we will not be insisting that our measures be enforced over that period to reduce its co2 emissions? i cannot see it. it is important that we plan for the future. we must not condemn europe to relative decline. we have got to look not to the past but to the future. commissioner, i hope parliament today will endorse the roadmap; i hope you will embrace many of the ideas put forward in it by my colleagues here, and i hope you will then bring forward measures to promote innovation, create jobs and take europe forward.
mr president, be careful what you wish for because you may get it. this old saying is very true about reducing our use of hydrocarbons. by 2050 we will have a low carbon economy for the simple reason that we will largely have run out of carbon. all the increases in non-conventional hydrocarbons, including from environmentally catastrophic shale oil and gas fracking, are only just about keeping up with the worldwide decline of conventional oil production. the long emergency of peak oil has begun. those who think we can deal with it by building wind farms and eating nut cutlets may mean well, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions. the biggest threat is to food production. in agriculture, before the age of oil, for every calorie of energy invested by man, horse or ox, the average return was one-and-a-half calories. on that small surplus our ancestors built their cathedrals, painted their rembrandts and wrote their rights of man. oil-based agriculture uses far fewer people to produce far more food. its ratio is twenty-to-one. that is an input of 20 calories of oil energy for machinery, fertilisers and pesticides for every calorie of food produced. today’s globalised world is a house of cards, built on the suicidally-unsustainable use of finite fossilised sunlight. this is the real carbon crisis which we need to address. if we continue to fail to do so, today’s children will look back in despair at all the time and energy that our generation wasted trying to kill the wrong pig.
mr president, when we talk about climate change all too often we concentrate on the challenges rather than the opportunities. cutting greenhouse emissions must go hand in hand with creating green jobs. i welcome this report’s call to increase the eu competitiveness in the low carbon economy. we must support ventures such as the green enterprise in my constituency of london. sustainable industry can drive the recovery, deliver energy security and help us meet our climate change targets. london is also the world centre for carbon finance. managing emissions is one of the fastest growing sections in the financial service industry. the eu should not interfere with the carbon markets. a readjustment which removes carbon allowances from the eu emissions trading system could be dangerous. it could lead to certain businesses locating outside the eu, which is unacceptable. while promoting green jobs we must also ensure that our existing industry remains competitive.
mr president, all over europe we are sacrificing perfectly good coal-fired and nuclear power stations on the altar of environmentalism. we are trying to replace them with renewables. wind turbines are blighting homes, communities and lives yet they deliver only an intermittent trickle of very expensive electricity. this policy threatens our energy security while forcing up costs and undermining competitiveness. high energy prices are driving industry, jobs and investment out of the eu altogether and blocking economic recovery. ironically these industries go to other jurisdictions with lower environmental standards so in one policy we damage our economies and increase global emissions. we are promised green jobs yet repeated studies show that every green job destroys several real jobs in the real economy by forcing up costs and restricting growth. across the atlantic the us has discovered shale gas. america is looking forward to a new industrial revolution based on plentiful, cheap, indigenous fossil fuels. in the meantime in europe, we shackle our industries with green dogma. yet again the european union appears to have a death wish. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
), blue-card answer. – no, i am unable to confirm that.
, blue-card question. – mr president, i know that mr helmer is something of an expert on this subject, and wonder whether he can confirm or deny something that i have read in the press, which is that if britain closed down all of its industry, took every british aeroplane out of the sky and every british car off the road, this would not actually make any discernible difference to the world output of co2 emission gases. in fact, if we completely closed everything down, it would have no effect at all. can he state whether that is true or not?
blue-card answer. – mr president, yes, i believe the answer to that question is that it is pretty well true. if the whole of the british economy were completely turned off and we did not even burn a candle, china would make good the co2 savings that we had achieved in a period of about 12 months.
rapporteur. − mr president, i do not know who timetabled this debate but i do not think it was one of their best days! i would ask the house to remember that i am not asking you today to support the report that was carried in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety by a small majority. rather, i am asking you to vote for the joint epp/alde amendments and the report, and to take into account the fact that we have made compromises here in order to try to secure a large majority for reform in this house. i will just touch on a couple of issues. firstly, the emissions trading scheme (ets). this is a market mechanism, but it is not a perfect market mechanism. a huge surplus of allowances has built up and that needs correcting. when the ets was launched the commissioner at the time said that we were going to learn by doing. we are still learning. roger helmer of the uk independence party said that wind turbines were useless and were driving industry across to china. well, he should then answer the question why, if that is the case, china is building more wind farms than the whole of europe put together? when we look at the green economy or the low carbon economy, i do not like to talk about wind turbines, as that is too easy. i like to think of the rolls royce factory in derby in the united kingdom, where they are building engines for the a380 airbus. this is very advanced technology. these engines can allow us to meet the aspirations of travel but do so by using less fuel and producing fewer emissions. ms grossetête, that is not undermining europe’s competitiveness; it is ensuring that we can maintain it and strengthen it. some see the roadmap and the proposals that will come forward from the commission as a result as a threat. i see it as a challenge, and also as an opportunity. i have heard ukip – and indeed ms gardini – saying that we should just carry on as we are and should not make changes unless the rest of the world does. it all sounds quite easy, with some degree of common sense. but that is not building a better future for europe. it is just condemning us to the slow lane. it is allowing us to fall backwards, overtaken by the technological developments of the far east. we can accept that not all of us in this house want a green future, but we should not opt for a black future. we should be going forward to a bright future.
mr president, i welcome the international dialogue at the conference this week in marseilles. it is imperative that all decision-makers, from local governments through to member states and the un, promote initiatives for water quality, availability and affordability. water is a common good and a human essential, and it is also a human right which should not be used for excessive commercial profit. with this in mind, the fact the forum’s president, louis fauchon, has a foot in both camps is deeply troubling. member states must give farmers incentives to increase investment in on-farm water storage capacity, which takes up as much as 70% of natural water supply, although the uk national farmers union has warned that there is no quick fix. i am also dismayed that in this year of cap reform – as has been mentioned here by one of my colleagues – there is no mention of this matter. is this a question of the eu talking with one head and then not talking with the other?
in writing. – the 6th world water forum is a unique platform where the water community and policy and decision makers from all regions of the world can come together, debate and attempt to find solutions for water. it is taking place in marseille now. i am interested to know what the commission’s role has been in the political process leading to the 6th world water forum. what is the eu’s approach with a view to further progress at the global, national, regional and local levels in promoting solutions for water, including with a view to fighting poverty and climate change? will the commission support a ‘multi-level governance’ approach to water issues, stressing the role of the regional and local dimensions?
author. − mr president, the recent outbreak of the schmallenberg virus is extremely unfortunate, especially for farmers who will have to deal with the consequences of the lost livestock as we enter into the calving and lambing seasons. we now know the animals were probably infected last autumn, but it is only now that we are seeing the devastating effects, with many lambs and calves being stillborn or deformed. although i do not wish to downplay the severity of the situation, i think we do need to urge a proportionate response. thankfully it is believed that the virus does not pose any risk to human health. this is why recent moves in countries such as russia and egypt to ban imports of eu animal products, such as meat and dairy products, is, i believe, an overreaction and simply an excuse to pursue protectionist trade policies. as we are aware, the transmission of the virus can be attributed to midges, demonstrating that, despite our best efforts to contain the outbreaks of this kind and prevent them from crossing borders, this is sometimes impossible. despite this difficulty, a coordinated response between member states is necessary, especially when it comes to sharing the data so that we can get a clear picture of the extent of the spread of the virus. measures should be taken to reassure the general public and our trade partners in third countries of the high standards and safety of the food produced in the european union. most importantly, efforts to research the virus and ultimately develop a vaccine for it should be supported so that, in the future, farmers across the european union do not have to experience an outbreak like this again.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as i understand it, this is the first wholly new virus to be seen for two decades. in my own constituency, it has now been detected in an almost linear way across 200 miles from north to south and very quickly spreading. what would i like to see the commission do? please, please look at the following. firstly, recognise the importance of rapid and decisive action. secondly, deal with the trade restriction implications urgently; farmers need that reassurance. thirdly, fast-track research efforts on treatment and possible vaccination; compile reliable data. finally, and possibly most importantly to my mind, treat this as a warning. climate patterns are definitely changing; airborne vectors are becoming more prevalent. if there is more and maybe – god forbid – a whole clutch of new viruses coming onto the system in one go, can we cope? is it robust enough?
mr president, along with the rest of the ecr group i abstained on the report on the competitive low-carbon economy for 2050. as an idea in itself this is a good one for many reasons, such as combating climate change and sparing our finite hydrocarbon resources. unfortunately the report asks for the commission to bring forward the measures necessary to achieve the 2030 objectives rather too quickly and also calls upon the commission to use somewhat radical interventionist measures in order to address the market failings of the emissions trading system. some of these measures included putting aside a significant amount of carbon allowances and including air transport in emissions trading. the controversial content was subsequently watered down, and, while as a group we felt that what was finally proposed in the compromise package rendered it more acceptable than before, we still do not feel that we could accept the report’s climate mainstreaming provisions, particularly in the agricultural sphere and in the area of regional funding, which is why overall we abstained.
mr president, this chamber is obsessed with declamatory votes, with legislation and resolutions designed to show what very civilised and humane people we are, rather than to effect any outcome in the real world. the worse the crisis becomes outside, the more we engage in this displacement activity. greece is in default, the crisis is spreading across the mediterranean and we are obsessing about a website in the netherlands. and we are not even condemning the authors of the website, although we have given those boneheads far more publicity than they could have dreamed of. we are not even condemning the party associated with it. we are condemning an unrelated party of the dutch prime minister. well, i think he might very reasonably protest but, if he were to spend every moment responding to things in other parties with which he disagrees, he would be up dawn till dusk doing that and he has actually got a country to run. but of course the real reason this is happening is a sort of tit for tat because one group is condemned, therefore another one has to move a resolution. you know what? instead of escalating, we would gain far more credibility and respect if we dropped this kind of self-indulgent and self-righteous resolution and we concentrated on the issues that actually have effects on the real world.
mr president, every contiguous country has felt the pressure of putinite revanchism and energy diplomacy: the baltic states, belarus, ukraine, moldavia, georgia – most spectacularly in 2008 – and azerbaijan. in fact you do not need to be a neighbour of russia to be on the receiving end of it. we have had problems with our ambassador being harassed, expulsion of diplomatic personnel from the united kingdom and, of course, the litvinenko affair. why? what does the kremlin have to gain from this kind of behaviour? i think the answer lies in what german historians used to call ‘primat der innenpolitik’, what colleagues on the left of this house might think of as, in leninist terms, exporting your internal contradictions. it suits a basically insecure regime to keep fomenting troubles on its border, and that is why the development of a pluralist, liberal, multi-party regime in russia is not simply a good objective in itself but ought for us to be an imperative of western foreign policy.
mr president, the ecr abstained on this motion. the part that kazakhstan plays in the development of the political stability of central asia cannot be underestimated. kazakhstan and the eu already have a good relationship but cooperation should be strengthened, particularly in the areas of dialogue on democracy, human rights and trade as well as fighting terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. we welcome the release of evgeniy zhovtis and fully support the calls for the kazakh authorities to make every effort to improve the human rights situation in their country and investigate fully the december police shootings against oil workers and improve their respect for the freedom of assembly and expression of religion in line with osc recommendations. we await the fbi-led investigation on the police shootings in december so as a group we felt that the motion was actually too biased against the government and, until all the facts are known, we have abstained. it is rather bizarre that actually we have the same position as the gue/ngl group but for completely different reasons.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the motion for a resolution on the sixth world water forum. given that almost half the developing world’s population does not have access to basic sanitation facilities and that 800 million people still use unsafe drinking water, the work of the forum is extremely valuable internationally. while public health and environmental protection are put forward by the report as the main priorities for water management policy, and rightly so, we welcome the fact that the report also recognises the role that access to clean water plays in securing peace and cooperation in conflict zones, and we support strongly the call for the implementation of international agreements for the shared management of surface waters and ground water that cross international boundaries. this is particularly relevant in the middle east peace process, where adequate water access is a vital political consideration for all the parties concerned.
in writing. − i should like to commend my british lib dem colleague chris davies on his extensive work on this report. tackling climate change and promoting technological innovation are key priorities for liberal democrats in the uk, and this report serves to emphasise the potential for economic growth that can be unlocked by making the transition to a low carbon economy. it is crucial that we face the challenges of climate change, rising oil prices, and political instability in oil-producing countries head on; making the investments in energy efficiency and renewables in europe will help stimulate our economy, reduce energy prices for ordinary citizens, and develop the economic and environmentally sustainable economy which we desperately need.
in writing. − i supported this report. to combat global warming, co2 emissions must be reduced on a worldwide basis. the latest indicators are not encouraging: emissions increased by 6 per cent during 2010. co2 is accumulating in the atmosphere at an accelerating rate. a recent assessment by scientists who had voiced doubts about the evidence of global warming concluded that temperatures were indeed rising at a rate very close to that estimated by the un’s intergovernmental panel on climate change. eu member states were amongst the first in the world to industrialise and greatly increase their use of fossil fuels; we have a responsibility now to exercise leadership by reducing our co2 emissions.
in writing. − i voted this way because i believe that unspent carbon capture and storage (ccs) funds from the european economic recovery programme should be reallocated to other ccs projects. furthermore i am not convinced by the environmental benefits of incorporating nuclear into our low carbon energy future.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly condemns the website launched by the pvv, as it goes against the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and risks destroying the very basis of the union, which is pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement, and considers the pvv hotline as an ill-intentioned initiative aimed at creating divisions within society and obtaining political gain to the detriment of workers from central and eastern europe. i also call on prime minister mark rutte, on behalf of the dutch government, to condemn and distance himself from this deplorable initiative.
in writing. − i voted in favour for a resolution that calls for an investigation by the dutch authorities to condemn a dutch freedom party (pvv) website which invites complaints against citizens from central and eastern europe living in the netherlands, because i believe it openly incites discrimination. this resolution demonstrates that the european parliament does not tolerate any form of discrimination and calls on the european commission and the council to do their utmost to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes like those expressed on this website. the resolution also calls for the commission to ensure that the eu framework decision on racism and xenophobia is properly enforced in all eu countries.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly criticises the shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the presidential elections in russia, and the fact that voters’ choice was limited; welcomes the significant civic engagement in the campaign; and calls for comprehensive and transparent analyses of all irregularities with a view to strengthening the democratic rules for future elections.
in writing. − i believe that the elections in russia were unfair, unjust and riddled with irregularities. this should be investigated. we as a grouping call for free, fair and independent elections in russia – with all political parties represented. this is what the people of russia want. we will work closely with the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee to consistently raise the issue of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law with the russian counterparts. we also note president medvedev’s announcement of comprehensive changes to the political system. we await these changes with anticipation. we in the ecr totally and unreservedly condemn the crackdown by police on peaceful demonstrations held in protest at election irregularities. fraud has been widely reported by independent election monitors and observers in the country in both last year’s parliamentary and the recent presidential election. the russian authorities need to engage in dialogue with the opposition. we in the ecr regret that the putin-led administration decided to deny registration for the presidential election campaign of grigory yavlinsky, opposition leader of the liberals. this stance also prevented mr yavlinsky’s party from sending observers to polling stations to monitor events.
in writing. − a saying by former prime minister viktor chernomyrdin is a favourite among russians. when an attempted monetary reform by the central bank ended disastrously, chernomyrdin said: ‘we hoped for the best but it turned out as usual’. nowadays, russians laconically use chernomyrdin’s fatalistic phrase to describe their everyday situation. when it comes to democracy in russia we are still hoping for the best and yet tragically things turn out as usual. in december, this house passed a resolution on the duma elections urging moscow to hold ‘free and democratic presidential elections’ and yet the march vote too turned out as usual. the osce stated that the presidential elections were ‘clearly skewed’ in favour of putin and that overly-prescriptive rules on registration limited competition. russia is an important partner for the eu and it is vital for our mutual prosperity that we boost trade ties. however it is difficult to build commercial links when russia is crying out for democratic reform. european companies are also put off by the level of corruption and the lack of respect for the rule of law. we must see real and lasting change in russia if it is to become a meaningful partner for the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which stresses the importance of the relations between the eu and kazakhstan and the strengthening of political and economic cooperation, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport and in addition to the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking; underlines that last year was marked by increased cooperation, frequent high-level meetings and the start of negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement. however, it also rightly expresses its deep concern and its condolences regarding the events that took place on 16 december 2011 in the zhanozen district of kazakhstan, when 17 people died and 110 others were injured, and also strongly condemns the violent crackdown by the police against demonstrators in zhanozen and calls for an independent and credible investigation into the events, with an international component.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly condemns the killing of british citizen christopher mcmanus and italian national franco lamolinara – two engineers working for an italian construction company who had been held hostage by aqmi for 10 months in northern nigeria – during a failed rescue attempt on 8 march, and extends its condolences to the families of the victims.
in writing. − the ecr group supports the nigerian government in its fight against terrorism and violent crimes perpetrated by the islamic extremist sect boko haram against christian communities. it roundly condemns the acts of terrorism perpetrated by boko haram as well as the instigators of this violence, which come both from within and outside nigeria. it is deeply concerned about the institution, since 1999, of shari’ah law in 12 northern states, creating a de facto state religion in contradiction with the national secular constitution. it calls upon the nigerian government to address the root causes of the violence, ranging from corruption to age-old sectarian strife and on the eu and its high representative for foreign affairs to assist in this effort.
in writing. − i was happy to fully support my liberal group on this report. whilst highlighting the importance of access to clean water, it is also crucial to recognise the need to properly manage and conserve our limited water resources, and avoid the temptation to see water as something to be wasted or undervalued. in this context we resisted cumulative amendments from the far left, which sought to bring all water into public ownership, whilst ignoring the practical challenges of developing and investing in water supply infrastructure in member states.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission and member states to reinforce their commitment to achieve the united nations millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation, and also to take into account the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, and stresses that the world water forum debate should aim at strategies and solutions for agricultural and economic development that can guarantee a high level of water availability and quality.
in writing. − along with my ecr colleagues, i voted in favour of the motion for resolution about the 6th world water forum. the world water forum only meets once every three years so we need to make sure that we make the most out of this platform to discuss aspects of water policy. at the end of the day, we need to ensure that the human right of access to water as a basis to ensure wellbeing is upheld. we need to bring the world water forum into our fight against climate change and poverty, both of which are linked with water access. we need to make sure that regional and local roles are clearly defined, as this is where the bulk of the work is being and will be done. we need to continue with the good work outlined in the ‘blueprint to safeguard europe's water resources’ report.
author. − madam president, the current situation in sinai is deplorable. many asylum seekers are reported to lose their lives there each year, with still more being kidnapped and held hostage. others are arrested by the police and are then detained and denied the right to make an asylum claim. it is also reported that those that do not manage to pay the price for their release are killed and their organs traded. we welcome the efforts of human rights organisations in israel and egypt in providing medical assistance to the victims of trafficking in sinai, and we urge the governments of egypt and israel, as well as the rest of the international community, to intensify their efforts to combat the atrocious human smuggling and trafficking that seems to be taking place. of particular concern today is the case of solomon w. and we urge the egyptian authorities to intervene as quickly as possible to ensure his protection from the organ traffickers that are currently in pursuit of him, given the huge price that his pursuers have placed on his head and the fact that he knows the exact location of their prisoners and apparently has witnessed the atrocities committed against these prisoners.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the events reported last week in which israeli soldiers raided the palestinian television stations of al-watan tv and al-quds educational tv, confiscating administrative files and broadcasting equipment, do indeed show that tension between the two communities is high. palestinians are using approximately 100 unauthorised transmitters on various frequencies and we urge the pa government’s communications ministry to work more closely with the israeli authorities to ensure that the facilities that they are using are within the law. while we recognise the fact that the pa has jurisdiction in the west bank, where the raids took place, we must also recognise the right of israeli authorities to safeguard their own nation’s security to be paramount. this most recent incident highlights the need for improved communications and cooperation between the various parties. the ecr believes that ultimately a two-state solution is the only way forward. we call upon the authorities of both territories to re-enter peaceful negotiations so that a sustainable solution to the conflict can be found for the future.
author. − madam president, last month marked the anniversary of the peaceful popular movement calling for respect for fundamental human rights and democratic reforms in bahrain. there was evidence of disproportionate use of force by the security forces to crack down on protestors, and then came the controversial arrival of gulf cooperation council troops. however, the government, led by the king, has listened to the international community and engaged in meaningful dialogue with the protestors and their groupings, and also with the shia majority parties, and has established an independent commission of inquiry, as well as proposing constitutional amendments to address all these concerns. the setting up of a ministry for human rights and social development is also a step in the right direction to make sure that basic civil rights are being restored; that ministry will uphold the highest international human rights standards. the ecr group calls upon the bahraini authorities to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, but also to allow entry into bahrain for foreign journalists and international human rights organisations so that the criminal investigations which are now under way, and indeed are already taking place, can be observed by outsiders, and that the implementation of the announced reforms, which i welcome, will be monitored by independent observers.
mr president, we are not only opposed to the uk’s membership of the eu, we are opposed to the institution itself, which is intentionally destructive of national identities and sovereignties. we would therefore urge all countries, including serbia, to decide against membership. the eu’s interference in serbian internal affairs is to be deprecated. encouraging serbia to embrace neo-liberal globalist economic policies is not in serbia’s interest. attempts to foist social liberalism on a socially conservative society like that of serbia have led to violence, inevitable repression and resentment. the true purpose of such measures is not to protect the real interests of sexual minorities, but to politicise them and generate friction with their neighbours. furthermore, it is in the uk’s interest to oppose enlargement, especially the entry of relatively poor countries, the inclusion of which will lead to greater net contributions from the donor countries and mass migration from the newly admitted states.
on behalf of the alde group. – (microphone off) ... strongly supports the report, and i agree that it is possible to be positive – but it is impossible to be optimistic. turkey seems distracted by the other pressing priorities that it faces. europe is clearly not ready to move forward the accession process, and the central problem is cyprus. because cyprus is shortly to assume the council presidency, i think it is appropriate for us to spotlight that problem. nothing could be more intelligent and strategic than for the cypriot presidency to call the bluff of turkey and to open chapters 23 and 24 on rights and justice. such a move would not be about power and pride and prejudice but about the people – about greeks and turks, christian and muslims – who could then look forward to a period of reconciliation in which they could live together in freedom, security and justice. i strongly insist that the cypriot presidency of the council should be made aware of its responsibilities.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first of all can i join in the congratulations to ria oomen-ruijten. it is a good report. of course there are many aspects of the report which we might have liked to see worded in a rather different way and i appreciate that there are strong feelings on the subject of turkey on all sides of the house. for my part, i have always been supportive of turkish aspirations towards the european union and i am particularly appreciative of turkey’s role as a key ally over the years. but i have to ask, is the european union being helpful enough? is it sending a really positive message to turkey? in particular, we see consistent obstruction from certain rather obvious quarters regarding turkey’s european aspirations and status. this is unrealistic, it is unjust and it prevents progress. we make demands of turkey but we should reciprocate with movement in turkey’s direction. for example, cyprus, which my good friend and colleague mr duff has mentioned: this should not feature in turkey’s accession but we all know that it is in fact a factor. there are constant demands for turkey to make unilateral concessions and in return she gets nothing. the eu is supposed to have ended the isolation of northern cyprus. whatever happened to that? by all means call for reductions in turkish troop numbers in the north of cyprus and for agreement to the additional protocol, but match this with opening trade through the ports and airports in northern cyprus. i have to say that the assumption of the eu presidency by the republic of cyprus in the second half of this year would present a great opportunity for progress if there was real courage. if there is a genuine desire to reunite the island of cyprus then the turkish cypriots need to feel they are actually welcome and respected in the island that they share. i have to say we regret that some unhelpful amendments have been tabled to the resolution, but overall the resolution is balanced and reasonable and the ecr group will support it. (the speaker agreed to take four blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, mr van orden used the phrase ‘turkey is a key ally’. do you accept that a country can be a key ally without political union, mr van orden?
blue-card answer. – madam president, as my good friend and colleague knows full well, i am not overly enthusiastic about many aspects of the european union, in particular political integration. but the fact is that turkey does have an aspiration towards joining the european union and i think turkey’s strategic position is a very important one. turkey has been an excellent ally for many years and we therefore need to meet her aspirations in a positive way. i have always said that, if we send negative signals to turkey, we should not be surprised if she starts heading off in a rather different direction. once or twice, in recent months and years, there have been one or two little indications that maybe there were feelers going out in different directions. we have to very careful about that. so i would say that of course turkey can be a good ally without being in the union, because that is the situation at the moment. but we need to meet turkey’s aspirations, and what she wishes is accession to the european union. but i hope that by the time that happens – which i hope will not be too many decades distant – we will be talking about a very different european union to the one that we have now, and a european union that is heading in a rather different direction to the one that it is heading in at the moment.
blue-card answer. – mr posselt, i am delighted that you have asked that because there are certain members who ascribe mischievous intentions to my support for turkey. i would have to say that the whole question of the impact of turkey on the european union is not one of the major factors as to why we should be supporting european union accession by turkey. it is true that the european union would inevitably be very different with a country like turkey as a member. but, as i say, i hope that, by the time that comes about, the european union will be very different to what it is today. the european union needs to get away from this course of insistence and obsession with political integration. what we need is a european union of overlapping circles of engagement where, if there are those that want to push forward with intense integration, by all means let them. but others, including perhaps my own country, could be part of that union without having to be intimately involved in that particular movement. so i hope it will be a very different european union when turkey joins and that turkey will help that process.
blue-card answer. – madam president, i have rather missed the point because actually there are significant references to cyprus in a number of paragraphs of the resolution. mr mavronikolas, clearly you have not read it very carefully. i would ask you to read it carefully because it is very important that we get it right. there are references to cyprus and indeed there are references to the additional protocol. but on the other hand it is saying that we should open ports as well. that is why i say it is a balanced resolution. there are many references to cyprus in the resolution and i commend it to your reading.
blue-card answer. – when i spoke i was trying to be polite, without referring to particular countries, but i seem to recall that in april 2004 the european union agreed that the isolation of northern cyprus should be ended. a few weeks later the republic of cyprus joined the european union and suddenly all that went off the agenda. i do not know whether this was coincidental. i sometimes get the impression that some of my very good friends and colleagues from greece and the republic of cyprus are not as helpful as they might be. when we talk about unilateral concessions, all the time we are making demands of turkey, but it takes two to tango you know, and we have got to see some movement on the other side. turkish friends say to me ‘when we make concessions, we never get anything in return’ or ‘when we offer to make concessions, we never get anything offered in return’. so i would say: open up northern cyprus, free the ports there, give them international access and then some of these other things might start flowing into place.
madam president, i wonder if you could ensure the smooth functioning of parliament and the proper allocation of political priorities at the next part-session by allocating on the agenda a full 60 minutes of question time with mr van orden because i enjoyed that last session so greatly.
(microphone off) ... support from a colleague in my own region of the united kingdom, albeit from another political party. thank you, richard.
blue-card question. – madam president, can i ask my good colleague takis hadjigeorgiou, who is from the akel party, which is at the centre of the cypriot government, what he expects of the presidency of the council. does he agree that it is the duty of the presidency of the council to project the values and principles of the european union and to complete that process of integration which is at present, so sadly, not applicable to the island of cyprus?
blue-card question. – mr kazak, according to the interpretation you talked about the fact that turkey was being demanded to make unilateral concessions and you accused cyprus of not living up to its ‘commitments’ – the word in interpretation – towards the turkish cypriots in the north of the island. is it not true that turkey made a commitment under the ankara protocols to allow cypriot-registered vessels to dock at turkish ports and it has never actually fulfilled that commitment or allowed it to come to pass? who is actually in breach of their commitments here, turkey or the republic of cyprus?
mr president, with other international observers i was prevented this year from observing the kck trials in diyarbakır and, had we been let through the door, we would have seen prosecutions taking place without the defence present and with the use of the kurdish mother tongue prohibited. so it is right that we keep the pressure up for judicial reforms to show full respect for human rights. the release of jailed journalists, nedim şener and ahmet şık, shows that our criticisms are effective. indeed i was honoured recently to meet the daughter of murdered armenian-origin journalist hrant dink, to speak in support of her appeal against the findings that this was not an organised crime, and to hear from etyen mahçupyan, the proprietor of his newspaper at the time, that popular revulsion to his murder has eased attitudes in turkey towards the armenian question. i have nothing but praise, on the other hand, for the help turkey has given to the 17 000 syrian refugees who have crossed its borders. i join with the commissioner in welcoming the constitutional debate but ask him to join with me in asking that the submissions be republished on the website from which they were abruptly taken off. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, has mr howitt ever considered the impact on his constituents of giving 90 million turkish citizens, including an oppressed kurdish minority of approximately 15 million, the absolute right to live, work and settle in the united kingdom, which will be the consequence of admitting turkey as a member of the european union? have you ever considered that, mr howitt?
blue-card answer. – mr president, a young turkey with a growing skilled workforce and growing business can improve prosperity, not just for that country but for my country and my constituency. the honourable member knows a few things about losing elections. perhaps if nicolas sarkozy loses the election on 6 may there will be a fairer hearing for turkey in the european union.
blue-card question. – mrs jäätteenmäki – this was again in the interpretation – you said that turkey had been a force for good in the work it has done in its region. how then do you account for the fact that it has kept the border closed and imposed an embargo on peaceful, democratic armenia for 20 years, for no other reason than the fact that it sides with its cousins in azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh? how can you justify a boycott on a country like armenia purely because of your solidarity with some other country? this is absolutely unparalleled in any other place in the world. so what good is it doing in terms of keeping its border with armenia shut?
mr president, turkey is still lagging behind when it comes to equality between men and women. the rigid role which women play in turkish society means lower participation by women in the workplace, politics and civil society. worse still, attacks against women are commonplace, and the authorities are too lenient on the perpetrators of gender-based violence. more women’s shelters are needed in order to protect the vulnerable. turkey must work harder to eradicate the practice of honour killings, with dozens of turkish women murdered each year. i also call on turkey to criminalise forced marriages. turkish women are still less educated than their male counterparts, and there needs to be a special focus on rural women, especially with regard to literacy. three million rural turkish women remain illiterate. kurdish women in particular are disadvantaged by the double burden of being women and kurds. i call on the commission to put women’s rights at the forefront of negotiations with turkey.
mr president, turkey’s prime minister erdogan has described un sanctions against iran as, and i quote, ‘a mistake’. since march last year, turkey, iran, iraq and syria have issued tourist visas valid for those four countries together. turkey, of course, has a customs union with the eu, but it also has a customs union with the five turkic-speaking countries of central asia. the inconvenient truth is that turkey is a regional power of the middle east, and this is because of the actuality. turkey is an asian country, moreover one that does not tolerate meaningful dissent. turkey should not even be considered for membership of the european union, and it certainly should not be receiving almost one billion euros a year in pre-accession funding.
blue-card question. – mrs bozkurt, you used the phrase in your speech that turkey is a growing economy and a regional power. well the same could be said of south korea. why do these two facts, if they are facts, justify political union with turkey?
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 29 march 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the enlargement report for montenegro.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, montenegro as a candidate country remains a relatively straightforward country in terms of monitoring its progress towards eu accession, and, in this case, small is beautiful. montenegro has worked hard to address the criteria and benchmarks set by you as commissioner in seven key priority areas, namely improving the work of its parliament and the electoral framework, professionalism within the administration of montenegro, independence of the judiciary, fighting corruption, combating organised crime, ensuring media freedom and cooperation within civil society. montenegro – to its credit – was admitted to the world trade organisation in december last year. wto accession will inevitably help montenegro build a competitive and dynamic modern economy. this signals montenegro’s integration into the world economy as well. the major political copenhagen criteria issues, which include inter-ethnic relations, gender, religious, ethnic and disability discrimination, the repatriation of idps, independence and transparency of the judiciary, and freedom of the media, are very fully covered in my resolution. as a country with outstanding natural beauty, tourism plays a major role in montenegro’s economy as well. protecting the environment from the building of hydroelectric dams and energy policy transparency are therefore natural priorities for the montenegrin government. my current resolution on montenegro’s progress also focuses on the economy. by freeing up the country from too much red tape and bureaucracy, this will encourage business and promote growth through foreign direct investment. montenegro is also well known as a champion of better regional cooperation with its immediate neighbours, and its achievements in this area include resolving an outstanding small border dispute with croatia and leading the fight against organised crime in a region which sadly has too much of it. last year it successfully concluded bilateral extradition treaties with serbia, macedonia and croatia. in short, montenegro is a good news story and it is hoped that the negotiations will now start in june of 2012 for eu accession.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 29 march 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008 to 2013 as part of the general programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’ (06444/2/2012 – c7-0072/2012 – 2009/0127(cod)) (a7-0063/2012).
in writing. – the united kingdom is criticised repeatedly in the eu citizenship report which details the obstacles to eu citizens’ right to free movement. increasingly people in the uk highlight immigration as one of the most pressing political issues, yet the eu fails to democratically recognise their voice. the uk population has grown faster in the last decade than at any other time, with the majority of growth related to immigration and an increased birth rate as a result of second generation immigration. it is essential that the relevant uk authorities retain the power to determine who lives in the country, which people are entitled to welfare payments and what checks and conditions are used to determine legal residency. this can only be done by leaving the eu. the report fails to examine issues that relate to the free movement principle, such as stress on employment, pressures upon society and integration issues. the eu is happy to publicly condemn, rather than condone, overt dialogue on the negative aspects of free movement of people while they continue to forge policies that underscore the ideal of a federal superstate where national values would be replaced by brussels’ ideology.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is normal on these occasions to thank the shadow rapporteurs. i want to give particular thanks today because the cooperation between the shadows on these estimates has been exceptional. i also want to thank the bureau and the secretary-general for their cooperation in putting these estimates together. there is now a widespread consensus that we need a modest budget in parliament, especially during these difficult economic and financial times. i believe the estimates show that we are on the way to achieving that modest budget. the proposed increase of 1.9% for 2013 is already a freeze in real terms, and it is in line with the letter we received from commissioner lewandowski asking us to keep the increase at or below 1.9%, although i do believe there is potential to make even more savings. i will return to that in a few minutes. to achieve the 1.9% we have found around eur 9.3 million in savings in the budget, savings in all members’ allowances, including the daily allowances and general expenditure allowance, all travel budget lines, in the security costs in parliament, in representational costs, in seminars, savings made in the budget of political parties and foundations, and also in the project reserve. colleagues will note that when we have sought to make savings we have also attempted to protect the effectiveness of the european parliament and to respect our legal responsibilities. it would be easy to listen to populist voices and make cuts in areas which damage the european parliament’s effectiveness, and indeed the effectiveness of individual members of this house. i believe the majority of members will take the middle, sensible course. therefore, in addition to the suggested savings, i also support the call for no new unforeseen building projects for the rest of this term. i also call for more information on the kad building in luxembourg, for no extra funds to be made available for the house of european history and for this project to be co-financed. we need to clarify with the commission how much they will put into the building costs and the running costs of that particular project. i support greater interinstitutional cooperation. there must be opportunities for savings if we work jointly with other institutions on translation, on interpretation, on buildings and on human resources. i am pleased to say that work has already started on that. i also support calls to look at all our budget lines, particularly the budget lines which are normally under-spent each year. there must be the potential for further savings. as i said earlier, the estimates currently calling for an increase of 1.9% should be just the start. that is why we are also calling for the establishment of a working group in our guidelines. this working group can do a full evaluation of parliament’s budget. it can also look at the forthcoming travel costs report, and it can look at the comparable study with other parliaments and congress which this house called for in last year’s estimates. when this working group finishes its work towards the end of the year we will be able to identify even more savings in our budget. my aim, and i believe the aim of most members of this house, will be to say that we have listened, we have listened to people’s views, we have made savings in our budget, and we have produced a budget which is a cut in real terms, but at the same time we have produced a budget which protects the effectiveness of this parliament and of all its members.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i too want to thank derek vaughan for his report. he will know that i am broadly supportive of his proposals. in particular i want to say that i welcome the efforts of colleagues on the committee because we have worked together to find savings and i definitely think that this report is headed in the right direction. at a time when national governments throughout europe are striving to cut budgets to deliver better value for money and to keep budgets under tight control, it is absolutely essential that we in this house visibly are seen to be doing the same thing. it is especially important that we scrutinise those headings where the big numbers are. here i mention in particular administrative staffing costs and building policy; policy not just here in brussels, but policy in luxembourg, policy in strasbourg. i welcome the rapporteur’s call for a single seat for this parliament. surely at a time when we are looking for savings, that has to be the most obvious saving of all, and now is the time to address that if we are to retain credibility with the electorate. but overall i would have liked to have seen more ambition in this report. the very minimum we should have been seeking is an absolute freeze on expenditure. that reflects another eur 9 million of savings, something which in my opinion we could easily achieve. i look forward to working with the rapporteur and working towards achieving that goal later this year and achieving an absolute freeze on the overall size of the budget.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this parliament should not be asking for more money from taxpayers, but less. this parliament does not need more taxpayers’ money to fund a european history house or other narcissistic projects. this parliament does not need more taxpayers’ money to fund expensive delegation trips to some paradise island. this parliament does not need more taxpayers’ money to fund synthetic european political parties. this parliament does not need more taxpayers’ money to fund communication and advertising campaigns to make itself known to the public. what this parliament needs is to behave responsibly and act genuinely in the interests of the citizens of the member states. in this sense, the first thing it should do is to stop burdening europe’s people with heavy and useless regulation that frequently drives them out of business. the second thing it should do is take the lead in avoiding, condemning and sanctioning all wasteful and irregular use of taxpayers’ funds. i will vote against this budget proposal and urge the british prime minister to call for a 10% reduction in the eu budget for the european parliament for 2013.
blue-card question. – madam, you mentioned that this budget line has a eur 9.3 million reduction. have you considered that this is absolutely meaningless in relation to the eur 14 billion of aid budgeted between 2014 and 2020 for candidate countries and potential candidate countries?
mr president, i have listened carefully to the comments of members this evening and, in the context of real cuts in real front-line services back in our member states, in health, education and other areas, i cannot believe that members think it is enough just to talk about freezing this budget in real terms. a freeze – a total freeze – would be a step in the right direction. i completely agree that members must have the right to speak and listen in their own languages but i have also seen many members fail to turn up for meetings where they have asked for interpretation, and that does not seem responsible. but more fundamentally we need to consider in the future how we run this parliament and especially the costs of our monthly commute to strasbourg because in order to have our citizens’ satisfaction in our work we need to look again at the costs that they are bearing in the wider economy.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all, can i thank mr garriga polledo for answering so many questions. it saves me having to do it and i am very grateful to him. i am also pleased that colleagues have recognised that the proposed budget increase is below eu inflation. i also want to point out to colleagues that, as a result of this proposal, the parliament’s share of heading 5 in the eu budget will be 19.196%, which is well below the normal 20% which parliament receives. but let me make it clear once again that the 1.9% figure suggested is not the final figure. a number of colleagues have spoken as if the 1.9% is the final figure; it is not. as far as i am concerned, it is the start of the process, and i – like other colleagues – will want to make even more savings later this year. and how do we make those savings? colleagues have made a number of suggestions tonight. concerning the single seat, it was rightly pointed out that we are not just talking about brussels and strasbourg: luxembourg must also be added into the equation. other colleagues have mentioned the building policy, savings on delegations and savings on interpretation and translation. yes, work is being done on that at the moment, but when the work is concluded, i am sure that every member will want to ensure that the rights of members are also protected. let me also say that putting together a budget is always difficult, and when you put together your own budget it is even more difficult. some colleagues will want a bigger budget; some colleagues will want a much bigger cut. but, i say to everyone, even those who want a bigger cut in parliament’s budget: please at least recognise that we are making efforts to save and are doing our best to keep the increase as low as possible. i am sure that we will find savings later this year and we will be able to say that we have frozen or even cut parliament’s budget in real terms.
in writing. – at a time when governments in the united kingdom and across europe are cutting public expenditure and departmental budgets by factors of 20 % and more, it is unacceptable that parliament is asking for any increase in its budget – even if only in line with inflation. conservatives only voted in favour of this report in order to support the important amendment demanding a single seat for parliament. otherwise, conservatives would have voted against the estimates. the report last september by the think-tank new direction – the foundation for european reform, entitled ‘ending excess – cutting the costs of the european parliament’, set out clearly the extravagance in growth of the bureaucracy and buildings of parliament. of parliament’s budget of over eur 1.6 billion at that time, it identified potential savings of some eur 400 million that could be made without impacting on the core activities of parliamentarians. we want to see these proposals taken forward, with money that is saved returned to contributing countries.
on behalf of the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, ashley fox, the rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, has asked me to speak on his behalf this evening and extends his thanks to mr bodu and all the shadows. previously member states have taken different approaches in how they promote good corporate governance, often as a result of their different company law. it is time to establish best practice across the eu to improve corporate governance for all companies. best practice is constantly evolving, and setting prescriptive rules may hinder the development of new methods and techniques that improve the overall corporate governance of companies. this is why we welcome mr bodu’s report, which has achieved broad cooperation and support for the principle of ‘comply or explain’. many of the issues in the field of corporate governance are not black and white and overly defined rules could lead to a tick-box approach, which could take us back many years. we want better qualified directors and more actively engaged shareholders to ensure better run companies across europe. the ecr does not support mandatory quotas on company boards, but does support the many voluntary moves that are currently under way to encourage more diversity, not just on boards but at all levels of management of companies. and a plea to the commissioner: forced diversity often does not bring the same benefits that the voluntary schemes provide in terms of overall cultural change, especially in changing how business leaders choose to manage their companies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in financial services, failures by directors to hold their employees to account and failures by shareholders to hold those directors to account compounded risk-taking, led to corporate collapse and taxpayers’ bailouts. corporate governance is really important. this report recommends best practices shared through principles established in each member state and coupled with a ‘comply or explain’ regime. i agree, and i would also like to see it backed up with sanctions. as regards women’s quotas, yes, i would like to see more women in senior positions, but my priority is to get the right people, the best people with the best skills, and in banking that means the balanced approach. please remember that the chief financial officer of lehman’s was a woman. a survey released today by the bundesbank, a normally risk-moderate institution, suggests that in banks women are bigger risk-takers than men. please be careful of jumping to decisions. not all women are identical, and not all men are identical either.
in writing. – i have an old cookbook at home and at the end of every recipe it says ‘salt and pepper to taste’. and sometimes i think that this is parliament’s approach to legislation. the eu financial transaction tax is a salty treat for members, which they shake so vigorously on to so many reports that i am worried about their blood pressure. this report has been spiced up with the house’s other favourite condiment: quotas for women in the boardroom. why should a perfectly reasonable report which promotes good corporate governance, which underpins jobs and growth in the eu, be peppered with unreasonable references to boardroom quotas? quotas are intimidation not motivation, to say nothing of the way in which they patronise women. we need voluntary targets to persuade more company chairmen to appoint women to their boards, not bullying from brussels. i am not suggesting that women should stay in the kitchen with their salt shaker and their pepper pot, but i hope that members will soon realise that they are over-seasoning many of the reports which pass through this house.
mr president, this programme was set up at a time when there were groaning food mountains around europe. that, thankfully, is no longer the case. today the stores are empty, and the commission is buying food off the market to supply the neediest in our society. the european court of justice of course has now ruled against this practice. therefore, we need to find another way forward. my party believes that the member states’ welfare systems are the most appropriate way of helping the most deprived people in our society, and that view is shared by some member states and the council. however, i recognise that there is a majority in this house in favour of continuing the programme at eu level. the cap, however, is no longer the right tool to deliver the programme for the future, and that is why i support the proposal by the commission that, in the next mff, they will use the european social fund as a legal basis for the continuation of this important programme. it is in line with the ecj ruling, it offers national flexibility and – most importantly – it ensures continued support to some of our poorest citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, i would also like to welcome mr hoyer to the parliament today and to congratulate him on his position. i would like to speak as the rapporteur on the opinion from the economic and monetary affairs committee. cooperation in the committee was actually very good, as there was agreement on a number of principles. one was the principle of transparency and accountability, and not only to member states – and i would like to see member states take a more active role in ensuring accountability, particularly when, in theory, there is an unlimited call on capital for member states which we have to be aware of during difficult times – but also to report regularly to the european parliament. i know there has been a precedent set in the past. we also want to make sure that the best prudential banking practices are in place, because – let us not forget – it is european citizens who provide the money via their taxes. it is also important to have as much information as possible in the public domain so that citizens can make their choices. of course, there are competing demands on the eib. like many banks, we are asking you to rebuild balance sheets, to have a strong balance sheet and to be able to be stress tested and to meet all the requirements. but, at the same time we are also asking you to lend more money. i understand that balancing those two requirements is always a very difficult thing. but, given the lessons of the crisis, given the problems and given the fact that the eib relies on the ratings from the member states, please make sure that you ensure that you have a strong balance sheet and actually are able to cope with the unexpected.
mr president, investing in infrastructure research and innovation is key to unlocking growth and increasing competitiveness, and the eib has an important role to play. in my amendments to the capital requirements directive, i have proposed that banks co-financing long-dated infrastructure with the eib should be able to drop their risk rating by 50%. however, the eib relies on its guarantee – implied guarantee – from our member states for its triple-a rating, and we do need improved transparency. the risk sharing finance facility, loan guarantee facility and eurostars programmes for smes appear to be under-utilised by certain member states. these programmes can be overly bureaucratic when compared to national programmes, and we should look at this. last year, i led negotiations for this parliament on budgetary frameworks. it obliges countries to disclose off-balance sheet debts and contingent liabilities, and the project bond initiative must not be an excuse to hide new debts in complex arrangements between our member states, the eu and the eib. so the pilot schemes should be carefully monitored and assessed before a larger roll-out. funds should be open to all and pricing must be fair. as meps, we all know of the infrastructure needs in our own countries. in my region we need investment in broadband, electricity grids and key roads. if project bonds can unlock that investment without adding hidden leverage for our national taxpayers, then i will support them.
mr president, when the word ‘bank’ is attached to an institution, it bestows on it a status of economic rationality and even professionalism, but the role of this institution is to pursue the objectives of the eu project. in 2010 the board of directors declared that its activities had three main dimensions: the commission’s europe 2020 strategy with its employment strategy that embraces neoliberal economic policy and an acceptance of globalism; combating climate change – well, we had an 11th century danish king of england who set himself a comparable task – and, thirdly, supporting the eu’s foreign policy objectives. this is yet another example of the fact that, whatever activity the eu is following, whatever institution we are looking at, or whatever ostensible objective it might have, the real objective is the european project, the creation of a european – or perhaps these days, not so very european – superstate.
mr president, you will be aware that many in the uk object – object – to the imposed eu citizenship and do not want it. they love europe but they hate the eu because it is dictatorial and undemocratic. the following letter from constituent alan sheath illustrates this point. ‘dear mr nattrass, on 7 february 1992 prime minister john major signed the maastricht treaty. unbeknown to myself and the vast majority of british subjects, every person in the uk, including her majesty the queen, became a european citizen by ratification. neither i nor 60 million other british subjects were consulted or asked to vote. i do not want this citizenship so please advise me what measures there are in place to renounce it. i remain content with my british birthright.’ i see from the papers on this debate that the eu is now forcing the uk to wreck its social security systems by opening the floodgates to europe and the uk is being forced to abide by the rulings of the court of justice of the european union. we do not want foreign legal frameworks so when can the british people have a democratic vote please?
mr president, it is fantastic to follow on from mrs mazzoni. mrs vălean, this is a brilliant report, in which you highlight exactly what the european union is doing wrong – and what is that? it is failing to defend the fundamental rights of citizens. the commission must enforce those fundamental rights, which are enshrined in the treaty. if it does not, we will never be taken seriously within the global political domain, let alone within the legal domain. i welcome also the strong wording used in respect of protection of the roma and other minorities and the tackling of all forms of discrimination, and also the focus placed on gender and disability. i also want to address the crucial issue of the fundamental freedom of movement for same-sex couples. there is no decent honourable reason to deny these people their freedom of movement and the right to be with their families. so i say this: if we do not defend the rights of others, how on earth can we expect our own rights to be defended? that is the basis upon which europe was built.
mr president, we are told in this report that many people feel disenchanted with the eu project and it attributes this to citizens’ rights, particularly freedom of movement of people not being implemented. well, people in my country, the united kingdom, are certainly disenchanted with the eu, but it is because there is too much freedom of movement and not because there is too little. large-scale migration from lower-wage countries in the east to higher-wage countries in the west has deprived the east of key workers and has deprived workers in the west of accommodation and employment. this has got nothing to do with freedoms enjoyed by individuals and everything to do with human beings being treated as though they were depersonalised facts of production that can be moved around to reduce wage rates to a common low level. there is a complaint that people are discriminated against on the ground of nationality. if only employers did employ their own nationals first – there would be less to be concerned about. governments should ensure that their own people are put first in jobs and in housing. however, i am afraid employers often prefer to employ foreign workers because they are easier to exploit.
chair of the econ committee. – madam president, i note what the commissioner said with regard to article 67(3), but we do not intend to delete it. the article says ‘before adopting a delegated act, the commission shall endeavour to consult esma’. esma is not made up of member state experts; it is an independent regulatory authority and this house forcefully upholds the independence of that body. they are not member state experts, and the article does not impose an obligation. therefore, for this and other reasons, we do not share the opinion of the commission that it infringes article 290 tfeu, nor indeed the interinstitutional agreement to which the commission has also referred. i wish this to be placed on the record.
madam president, i object to there being a roll-call vote because we have had this before. there is a clear procedure for requesting a roll-call vote. if people want one then they should follow that. if we allow a roll-call vote on this because somebody requests it, then we could all request roll-call votes on all the bits that interest us, could we not?
madam president, i will just read the oral amendment; it is very brief. ‘considers that membership negotiations with turkey should be suspended until turkey terminates the visa-free agreement which it signed in 2009 with the regime of the president of syria, bashar al-assad’.
madam president, both the asylum issue and the immigration issue are unique to each member state, so i fundamentally oppose any move towards creating any form of common european asylum system. a one-size-fits-all measure as suggested in the report on the european refugee fund is not the answer as it cannot possibly take into account the specificity which each member state faces with asylum and immigration. i would like to highlight that some member states, my own in particular, already have a number of measures to assist asylum seekers and those fleeing persecution.
madam president, an obvious point about immigration is that people do not lightly uproot themselves and cross the world in order to settle in another country without having chosen that country with some care. the experience of countries which have run proper immigration policies is that new settlers are grateful and patriotic and happy to be there, which is why they came in the first place. the difficulty of a system which forces economic migrants into the category of claiming refugee status bogusly is that they begin the relationship with a new state on the basis of a lie. the experience of getting in under false pretences is bound to teach them to despise the authorities of the country in which they have arrived. it seems to me crazy at a time when we are admitting a certain amount of labour that we are doing so through a route which is based on falsehood on both sides, rather than having, as canada, australia, and a number of other countries do, a points-based system where people are chosen on the basis of their skills.
madam president, i voted against this report which i see as an attempt to move towards a common european asylum system, which i am opposed to. although cooperation between eu member states regarding refugees and their resettlement is necessary, i do not wish to see a growing eu competence in this area. while we have the responsibility to deal with genuine asylum seekers, a one-size-fits-all approach does not work.
madam president, i voted against the report on the european refugee fund as i strongly believe that both asylum and immigration should be individual member state national responsibilities. i would therefore oppose any move towards creating a common european asylum system. any such attempt at a one-size-fits-all measure created to cover all eu member states would, i believe, end in failure. on top of this, in many member states including my own, the united kingdom, which has already taken a disproportionate number of refugees in recent decades, this would not work. the uk has actually done much to help asylum seekers and refugees who already find themselves within its borders. i accept that as much as possible must be done to help those who genuinely seek political refugee status, but the measures that this report proposes are not the best way of going about trying to improve matters.
madam president, at a time of economic difficulty across the world, and particularly in the eurozone, and with the eu budget itself under enormous pressure, i cannot see the justification for shelling out huge amounts of cash this way. the report talks of up to eur 6 000 per head per refugee, and a minimum of eur 4 000. britain has a noble history of providing shelter to genuine asylum seekers and takes more than its fair share of the load, but these common eu priorities of ‘resettlement’ are unwelcome, unhelpful and unaffordable. that is why i voted against this fund.
madam president, this is one small step towards the creation of a pan-european policy on financial services. the direction however is clear when you put them all together. we are moving invigilatory power from national authorities to the new regulatory institutions which we have set up in brussels and the result of that shift is a move away from the successful model that we have seen – which has made london the most successful financial centre in the world – to something far more government run and restricted. i was talking to an italian friend in the epp just before the vote and he said, ‘what are you complaining about, you british? you will still have the most free market system in europe,’ and i said, ‘yes, well, that is rather like saying that we will have the best cricket team in europe. it is not really where the competition is.’ the competition is on other continents and it is a competition that we are losing.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report which aims to reduce the risks posed by the derivatives market through increased transparency. this would fulfil the g20 commitment that all otc derivative contracts should be cleared through ccps at the end of 2012. when dealing with legislation which affects financial services we should aim to find a balance between preventing unnecessary risky practices and still allowing the financial services sector to grow and do business in a competitive way.
madam president, there are a number of lessons to be learnt from the financial crisis. one of the lessons is that governments should stop spending more money than they actually collect in taxes, and be more responsible. that is one of the reasons we find the levels of debt we do right across the eu. actually, one of the problems with the whole eurozone crisis at the moment is that governments are simply spending more money than they have. the other issue we should tackle is the balance sheets of banks. for far too long these derivatives have sat on banks’ balance sheets and have not been properly accounted for. the directors of those banks often do not know what is on the balance sheets, and one of the problems is that the ifrs standards, which the commission has been so keen to promote, actually give an inaccurate picture. another problem is that when one of these contracts blows up, the counterparties should have enough capital to make sure that they can pay out. those are issues which we saw during the crisis when cdos and cdss blew up and not enough provision had been made. we need more transparency in banking and more transparency on the balance sheet, to make sure we learn the lessons of the crisis.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the report on revenue and expenditure for 2013 authored by a welsh colleague, derek vaughan, suggests a more modest increase – of 1.9% – to the 2013 budget. nevertheless, i would still maintain that there should be no increase in the budget, particularly due to the increased pressure and stress that national budgets are currently facing. within the report there are, however, many positive examples of how parliament can reduce its expenditure for next year. in particular, i supported the proposal that the european parliament should have a single seat. this would make substantial savings, as illustrated in a number of publically available reports, and would further help to avoid the wasteful duplication of office space and the unnecessary journey to strasbourg every month. it is high time that we demonstrate that we truly understand the necessity of making cost savings, especially when member states themselves are having to significantly tighten their belts.
madam president, in 2012 the uk contribution to the eu budget will be just over eur 19 billion according to the treasury’s pink book. to put that figure in context, all of the savings that we have made in our domestic spending – changes in child benefit, changes in housing benefit, the cut in local government grants – all of those things put together come to 8.6 billion. in other words, all of our austerity measures have saved only a third of our contributions to the eu budget. and where is that money going? if anyone is watching me on europarltv at the moment they may be the single most subsidised square yard in discovered space. europarltv costs eur 67 000 per hour of emission and attracts at peak 900 viewers. or maybe some of the money is going to the house of european history at the cost of gbp 131 million. maybe it is going on the 6.6 million of entertainment allowances that the commission had last year. it cannot be morally right, and it is surely economically indefensible at a time when all 27 member states are struggling to make administrative savings, that every euro they spend is sent here to be squandered by the brussels authorities.
madam president, the report on estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2013 contains a number of cost-saving measures which i am happy to support in order to reflect the struggle of our own member states, which they continue to face and have done on a year-to-year basis in their own budgets since the financial crisis in 2008. i welcome efforts to change working methods in parliament, which i feel can be done in very many ways. perhaps the most important measure, however, is that a single seat for the european parliament could lead to very substantial savings. the general public are rightly outraged at the staggering figure of over eur 450 million per year it takes to maintain the strasbourg seat. it is unacceptable and must be stopped, and i urge colleagues from all member states to support this cause. i look forward to upcoming reports detailing avenues for savings in parliament’s budget for 2013 and i hope that they will find further possibilities for efficiency. in recognising the calls for savings and the importance of the paragraph on the strasbourg seat, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
madam president, at a time when governments not just across the eu, but in fact across the world, are having to tighten their belts and look at every penny spent, it is shocking that here in the eu we have actually increased the budget. the budget should not even have been frozen – it should simply have been cut to reflect what national governments are having to do, which is to tighten their belts and act more responsibly. when you look at government expenditure, it is about time we had more transparency in all government expenditure, be it at eu level, national level, or across the world. it is time more governments published not only what they take in, but also what they pay out, so that citizens in the respective countries can hold those governments and politicians to account. therefore i would welcome, as many people would, more transparency concerning revenue and expenditure under the eu budget, particularly with reference to parliament. that would clearly show that having more than one seat for the european parliament is costing taxpayers hundreds of millions of euros. it is a disastrous waste and it sets a bad example to our citizens.
madam president, i find the situation in belarus of great concern. over the past 15 years we have watched from the eu as the situation for people’s personal rights, as well as their living standards, has gradually deteriorated in that country. given that the lukashenko government has returned to a system of repression and control, i welcome this latest round of eu sanctions and join the international condemnation of this regime. i hope that the eu is now working on a more long-term plan for helping the people of belarus reform their own country and over time enabling them to rejoin the rest of europe in a world of democracy and freedom.
madam president, we often use excessive superlatives when talking about dictatorial regimes but it is difficult to do so in the case of belarus. here is a caligulan tyranny in the heart of europe and on the borders of the european union. a lot of this report today focused on the application of the death penalty. i am more concerned by the naked autocracy of a system where, to give one example, at the last presidential election there were nine candidates, one of whom was elected, one of whom was left alone and the other seven of whom were imprisoned. it is extraordinary that we have a situation where people are habitually incarcerated for saying inconvenient things. i am a souverainiste, i believe in the national independence of countries, but we also are sovereign countries and we have our own right to take a position on the democratisation of neighbouring countries. belarus is also in our ‘near-abroad’. i think we should be proud of the fact that in this parliament, and particularly in our group, colleagues from the pis in poland, colleagues like mr migalski, and british conservatives have been in the front line pushing for the democratisation and freedom of that country. those who believe in a pluralist multi-party system there should know that they have friends.
madam president, this resolution draws attention to the current situation in belarus and the present diplomatic row between the european union and belarus, which has escalated with the expulsion of both the eu and the polish ambassadors. i support the eu stance on this issue. it has to be a very tough stance, including the introduction of sanctions and the publication of lists of people involved in the belarusian regime who are responsible for human rights violations; this regime of course must be strongly condemned at this time.
madam president, i too voted in favour of the statement made on the situation in belarus. the current human rights and political situation in belarus is extremely worrying. also of concern is the fact that the economic standard of living of its citizens over recent years under the lukashenko dictatorship has deteriorated. the increasingly repressive regime, which is basically a dictatorship, is really a deplorable one so i welcome the extension of the eu targeted travel sanctions against representatives of the regime who are responsible for the violent repression of its citizens. repression has also been intensified recently against civil society activists, democratic opposition and the freedom of the media. of course we must all give out a strong signal that such repression today is not going to be tolerated in europe by the european union. i believe that targeted sanctions, as proposed, will serve to give a very strong signal to that effect to the last dictatorship in europe. belarusians in my view deserve much better.
madam president, the serbs will never be able to complain, as my constituents in the united kingdom do, that the implications for national sovereignty were not clear when the european union offered them membership, and i say the implications for national sovereignty in the fullest sense. when ratko mladić was arrested and handed over, president sarkozy made a statement on behalf of the european union saying that serbia had thereby proved its fitness to join. if you stop and think about it, the opposite really should be true: a country would have proved its democratic and liberal fitness when such a man could get justice in belgrade or could be fairly extradited to bosnia. but of course what we are doing is stepping in and saying, ‘we do not allow you even your internal domestic legal system’, something that has not happened in serbia since the austro-hungarian ultimatum of 1914. that, of course, was the point that was rejected. we have to be fair in how we apply the rules to all of the applicant states. if serbs vote in favour of joining i will of course support them, but they should be in no doubt as to what the implications for their democracy are.
madam president, serbia has made significant progress over the past year. there are a lot of positive items in this report and i am therefore happy to support the continued progress that the country is making and hope that the government of serbia will continue to do the hard work of reforming the judicial system and civil administration, as well as ensuring the continued fight against corruption and organised crime. it is attention to these fundamental issues that will really benefit the lives of serbian citizens, whether or not they ultimately decide to join us here in the eu.
madam president, i too voted in favour of the resolution on the european integration process for serbia. since parliament adopted its report last year, serbia has made good progress in the reform process and the present report calls on the council to grant candidate status this month, which i back and so does my group. this judicial authority has surrendered the last two remaining wanted fugitives so serbia, in my view, has satisfactorily cooperated with the icty, which was one of the main requirements set by the commission. i am still concerned with the tensions that remain in north kosovo, particularly following developments last year, and i believe it is important that the serbian government looks for ways of alleviating and ultimately solving the problems in that region. personally i support a land-for-peace deal over kosovo, which would settle the question once and for all. there are also other serious outstanding issues, particularly where there will be requirements for further measures to be taken in ensuring the independence of the serbian judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime. also, as rapporteur for montenegro, i welcome the good relations that now exist bilaterally between montenegro and the republic of serbia.
madam president, if we want a picture of the culmination of the post-national dream which actuates so many people in this house, look at the provinces that the eu runs as colonies: bosnia and above all, kosovo. even in its trappings and its symbolism you see the post-national nature of the state. its flag is a version of the eu flag with stars on a blue background; its national anthem when it was first independent was beethoven’s ninth and then, when they eventually came up with their own, it was a wordless tune called europe. the whole thing has been put together in order to prevent the national principle. i favoured the right of the albanians of kosovo to determine their own future however they wanted: if they wanted independence, good luck to them. if they wanted union with albania or confederation with serbia, that was for them to decide. of course the flipside of that is that the serbs in kosovo have their own right of self-determination. in fact we have a de facto border now. but accepting the validity de jure of that border would call into question the intellectual foundation of the european project, built as it is on the presumption that national loyalties are transient, arbitrary and discreditable. god help us when, like so many past empires, the eu applies the lessons learnt in its colonies to its metropolitan core.
madam president, kosovo still has many internal issues to face before it can really be seen as on the path to joining the eu. its troubled history means it has a long way to go in order to meet the many criteria of eu accession. the continued problems over the return of internally displaced people, as well as the treatment of roma and minority groups more generally, should be addressed as a matter of priority. basic freedoms are still not the norm in kosovo and the international community still has a large part to play in helping it establish the basic principles of independent statehood.
madam president, a turk watching the debate on this report would get a very partial and imperfect view of the real opinions of this chamber. people say one thing when they are speaking on the record and they say a very different thing when chatting in the corridors. the real objection that a number of members have to turkish accession is based on numbers and based on voting weights. the last thing that committed euro federalists want is the admission of a populous, proud and patriotic muslim country but, rather than saying that, we have played this game where we have enticed turkey with a promise that we have no intention of fulfilling. in treating them in this way we risk creating the very thing which we purport to fear, namely an alienated and anti-western state on our doorstep. turks are as entitled to their dignity as any other people. we have asked them in the past to safeguard europe’s flank against the bolshevist tyranny; we may one day ask them to do the same against the islamic hegemony and the islamist jihadi hegemony. i think that they deserve better than the way they have been treated.
madam president, although i welcome the moderate progress that has been made by turkey since accession negotiations opened in 2005, further work on reform does still need to be carried out, as highlighted by this resolution. this is particularly pertinent in the reformation of its judiciary, ensuring there is a free press, freedom of expression for its citizens, and importantly the protection of minorities. turkey is likely to be a vital ally to the eu in terms of security and ensuring prosperity in the longer term. it is therefore imperative that the eu continues to support measures to ensure lasting peace and stability. turkey is considered to be one of the fastest growing economies in the world. given that its economy has tripled in size over the past decade, with 80% of foreign direct investment in turkey coming from the eu and it being one of the largest trading partners for us, we should not underestimate its economic importance and value going forwards.
madam president, turkey is a modern secular state with a rapidly expanding economy. however, as the progress report shows, turkey still has a long way to go before it meets the criteria to become an eu member. there are three main areas where i feel turkey needs to make considerable improvements. firstly, turkey is still lagging behind when it comes to equality between men and women. secondly, turkey must do more to protect the rights of minority communities, especially the kurds. kurds must be allowed to be educated in their own language. thirdly, the country’s foreign minister has indicated that turkey will refuse to work with the cypriot presidency from 1 july. any country that does not recognise one of the 27 eu member states is a questionable candidate. i call on ankara to engage with the cypriot presidency. i also call on ankara to prove it holds eu values and, as a sign of goodwill, withdraw its troops from the occupied part of cyprus. turkey needs to show statesmanship if it wishes to join the eu.
madam president, montenegro has made significant progress in making a number of reforms, in particular to its national parliament, improving its electoral framework and working towards an independent judiciary, which is why i welcome the council decision to begin accession negotiations. moreover, i welcome the adoption of the anti-corruption legislation by the country and sincerely hope that these moves will encourage other accession countries to follow its example. further progress still needs to be made, notably in combating organised crime. however, we are confident that these demands will be met and, in light of this, we would welcome montenegro’s accession to the eu as a positive development to the country, should they choose to do so.
madam president, the report on the corporate governance framework for european companies can be supported due to its respect for national governance rules and its lack of a top-down rules-based approach. the anglo-saxon ‘comply or explain’ model has been recognised in the report as an important tool and i fully agree that deviation away from the code of conduct within the member states should be explained by the company in question. better functioning of existing governance rules and recommendations is preferred to a new european strict rules-based system and i applaud the efforts of this report to maintain member state jurisdiction in this area while having belief in the sharing of best practice. i was, however, unable to support amendments tabled relating to the gender quotas. the gender imbalance is without doubt a major problem but we should allow member states and companies to address this issue without imposition of quotas from a european level. i voted in favour of this report and congratulate the rapporteur for his efforts but i voted against measures on quotas from a european level.
madam president, over the past few years the role of the eib has extended beyond simply providing loans and assistance to countries’ businesses and projects within the eu. as the eib begins to use more risk-based instruments and more complex types of leverage, we need to be very careful that the scrutiny of the eib keeps pace with this change. while projects like jeremie, in my own constituency in wales, have been very effective in adding value to the initial capital provided by the eib, thereby making money seem to go further, we must remember that more complex financial instruments can bring with them new risks. as the financial crisis has shown us, transparency is crucial to understanding the systemic importance and interconnectedness of financial products and institutions, yet i am concerned that there may not be sufficient financial supervision taking place over the operations and the balance sheet of the eib itself.
madam president, i welcome the work of the european investment bank, especially the funding it provides to small and medium-sized enterprises. nevertheless, i abstained on the vote because, while the report calls for more funding for smes, this funding comes with too many strings attached. smes are the life blood of the european economy. if they are left to flourish they can promote economic growth and create jobs. however, this report places too much emphasis on the greening of the economy. by deprioritising projects which fail to meet these exact criteria, the eib is placing an unnecessary burden on small businesses. loans should be made to companies which are most likely to boost the european economy, not just firms that meet idealistic environmental standards.
madam president, whilst i fully agree with the eu’s principle of free movement of eu citizens across the eu, i have voted against this report as it proposes a number of measures to which i am opposed, including the harmonisation of national security schemes and the convergence of tax rules. although i could support some of the other proposals put forward, i reject many others. in particular the report criticises the citizenship test which is currently used in the uk to grant citizenship. i reject that criticism and would argue that the test utilised is proportionate and fair, especially given the subsequent social benefits that are enjoyed by all uk citizens. the report claims that such issues are obstacles to eu citizens’ rights. however, given the very large inward mobility of eu citizens to the uk, particularly amongst younger eu citizens, this would seem to suggest that existing processes are not a barrier to the free movement of individuals into my country. the eu should be a welcoming place for all european citizens and i would suggest that the uk is the destination of choice for many of our young because of such a welcome.
madam president, i appreciate the work of the committee on petitions and i believe in the right of citizens to petition parliament. nevertheless, this report is a mess. it reads like a hastily compiled shopping list scribbled down on the back of an envelope. i am pleased that the report deals with the unacceptable spanish coastal law. i hear regularly from my constituents who have been left homeless and penniless with no compensation. yet the report also notes that property law does not fall within the eu’s area of competence. the uk was not afforded the same courtesy when the report criticised our social security system, another area which clearly lies outside eu competence. i cannot support a report which wants the uk to ban the right-to-reside test on eu nationals before they take advantage of the generous british welfare system. we have a right to protect our taxpayers from the burden of benefit tourism.
madam president, i voted against the 2010 eu citizenship report. whilst of course the fundamental freedom of movement for eu citizens across the whole of the eu is something i support entirely, along with the three other fundamental freedoms, this report is far too prescriptive on the member states, including ridiculous ideas like harmonising tax rules and these are in my view completely unjustified. i do not support the idea of allowing extra funding for the publicising of the european year of citizens nor do i want to see more money given to euronews from the eu taxpayers’ pockets. euronews is a great news channel – i watch it myself – but it should be self-funding on a commercial basis. furthermore, i do not feel that i can support a report which specifically criticises the united kingdom – i.e. my own country – for its right-to-reside test, which is currently used to test candidates before they are granted welfare rights. i believe this to be an entirely fair process, especially given the benefits that can be received, once a test is passed, by all uk citizens equally.
madam president, i voted against this report because it shows all so clearly that the british people were lied to about the true intention of the european union project. it is about take-over not about trade. this vălean report wants harmonised tax, social security, state benefits, pensions, even divorce laws right across the eu. what is this to do with trade? what is this to do with the common market? it is about harmonising arrangements to create a single european state. well i am not an eu citizen and i will not be an eu citizen. i am a loyal subject of her majesty the queen, in her 60th year of rule, and this vălean report is an insult to that loyalty.
in writing. − i voted for this report. while noting that the membership of the international rubber study group has been weakened by recent developments, i am also aware that the irsg is the only inclusive platform grouping both rubber-producing and rubber-consuming countries. furthermore, the irsg still is, in spite of its shortcomings, the most appropriate body to work on increasing transparency – something that is lacking on the physical market and is badly needed to ensure fair, predictable and affordable access to rubber all around the world.
in writing. − my ecr colleagues and i decided to vote in favour of the report relating to the international rubber study group. we believe that the report is key to ensuring fair, predictable and affordable access to rubber. we support the aims of the irsg in wanting to collect comprehensive statistical information on the world rubber industry. this action will hopefully lead to increased transparency in rubber markets and market trends – a condition for better understanding and eventually taming price volatility for this commodity. we hope that, in time, we can combat the major price rises that we have witnessed impacting on commodities including natural rubber. we need the study group to identify ways to combat rising demand for rubber in the world, particularly in china. we need to see where else rubber trees can be planted, and how we can best address the problem of heavy rains that affect stock in producing countries.
in writing. − i supported the taylor report on air passengers’ rights. i believe it is of paramount importance that eu passengers are better aware of their rights when faced with flight cancellations, long delays or sudden announcements of airline bankruptcy. eu regulations must be equally and uniformly enforced across europe, with clear rules which do not place a disproportionate burden on airlines in the event of force majeure or exceptional circumstances, while offering adequate, transparent and consistent guarantees for the protection of passengers’ rights. all airlines operating in the eu must inform passengers of their rights and respect the rules in good faith. we cannot continue with the present chaotic situation in respect of enforcement, where levels of protection vary widely depending on the member state of departure and the operating company involved. passengers are also affected by the proliferation of unfair terms when purchasing their tickets and by air carrier contracts: the commission, when reviewing the current legislation, must provide appropriate solutions to these concerns.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which says that airlines should give stranded passengers better information and immediate help. it also calls on the commission to tighten the rules on help and compensation for flight cancellations or delays, including luggage delays of longer than six hours.
in writing. − the report has many positive points which aim to improve the experience of air travel for all. it calls for transparency, which is urgently required with regard to the pricing of fares. it is all too common for the price of a flight to escalate as you go through the different stages of a booking process, and tax and other charges are added. these charges should be made clear at the very beginning of booking, and in advertising, in order to avoid unnecessary confusion. the report also calls for guarantees to be put in place to support passengers when travel companies file for bankruptcy. this has become an increasingly common phenomenon, leaving passengers stranded and sometimes with little prospect of compensation. there are further positive aspects in the report in relation to disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility. however, some areas of the report proved problematic for my group. we believe that the section of the report which would allow bookings to be cancelled up to two hours after the original reservation could be problematic for airlines and travel companies.
in writing. − i am extremely pleased that this report has been adopted, as it strengthens passenger rights across the board. however, in my original draft report i urged the commission to propose an obligation on air carriers to provide a final guarantee covering their liabilities towards passengers in the event of insolvency, bankruptcy or removal of an operating licence. the reference to a final guarantee was weakened at the vote in the transport and tourism committee, confining the proposal to support for stranded passengers to be repatriated in the event of insolvency, bankruptcy, ceased operations or removal of an operating licence. although i welcome this measure, it is not as strong as the original wording, and i call on the commission to look into the possibility of proposing a final guarantee to protect passengers when they revise regulation no 261/2004.
in writing. − i believe further legislative measures to protect air passengers’ rights are necessary, particularly in cases of long delays or cancellation. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the functioning and application of established rights of people travelling by air. airlines should give stranded passengers better information and immediate help, and this can be achieved if the commission tightens the rules on help and compensation for flight cancellations or delays, including luggage delays of longer than six hours. i believe, along with fellow meps, that passengers with reduced mobility or with disabilities must be granted barrier-free access to air travel, including the right to use mobility devices. more needs to be done to ensure a fair deal and broader rights for all travellers.
in writing. − i voted to defend the immunity of luigi de magistris in this case. the statements made by luigi de magistris related to an investigation into the use of eu funds and he held the position of chair of the committee on budgetary control when he made them. the statements were therefore directly and obviously linked with a general interest of concern to citizens and they thus constituted an opinion expressed in the performance of his parliamentary duties. against this background, the committee considered that the facts of the case, as manifested in the writ of summons and in luigi de magistris’s written submissions and oral presentations to it, indicate that the statements made do have a direct, obvious connection with luigi de magistris’s performance of his duties as an mep. the committee therefore considered that, in publishing the articles in question, luigi de magistris was acting in the performance of his duties.
in writing. − in this case the committee on legal affairs recommends that parliament should not defend the parliamentary immunity of luigi de magistris and i have supported them.
in writing. − i voted for this report which proposes not to defend the immunity and privileges of luigi de magistris, as in publishing the book in question he was not acting in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. − the statements made by luigi de magistris in this case relate to allegations of improper conduct of third parties in connection with criminal investigations which he was conducting before he became a member of the european parliament. the statements therefore appear to be rather far removed from the duties of an mep and hardly capable, therefore, of presenting a direct link with a general interest of concern to citizens, and even if such a link could be demonstrated, it would not be obvious. i have therefore backed the committee in not defending luigi de magistris’s immunity.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. the proposal aims to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund in the light of the establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme. in the explanatory memorandum and the accompanying communication, the commission explains that the efforts to establish a joint eu resettlement programme are a response to requests by the council to come forward with such a programme to remedy current shortcomings. the idea is to increase the impact of eu resettlement efforts in protecting refugees, to maximise the strategic impact of resettlement through better targeting of those persons in greatest need of resettlement, and to formulate at eu level common priorities for resettlement on a regular basis.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on setting up a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual use items.
in writing. − i voted for this report. on 23 september 2009, the commission adopted proposals for three regulations establishing the european system of financial supervision, including the creation of three european supervisory authorities (esas) to contribute to consistent application of union legislation and to the establishment of high quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices. the three esas are the european supervisory authority (european banking authority) established by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council (eba), the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) established by regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 of the european parliament and of the council (eiopa), and the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority) established by regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 of the european parliament and of the council (esma). these authorities have a crucial role to play in safeguarding the stability of the financial sector. it is therefore essential to keep ensuring that the development of their work is a matter of high political priority and that they are adequately resourced.
in writing. − the european market infrastructure regulation (emir) that we have voted overwhelmingly in favour of today is a crucial step not just in fulfilling our international obligations as agreed at the g20 pittsburgh summit, but also in ensuring that we have learned one of the crucial lessons of the crisis. over-the-counter (otc) derivatives are more than an integral part of the modern financial system: they play a crucial role in the functioning of an efficient and competitive market. the final agreement on the regulation has taken into account key ecr concerns including allowing for strong exemptions for non-financial players and appropriate treatment of pension funds. it has also provided for the key ecr objective of international convergence on exemptions for the fx derivatives markets that are so important for the functioning of global financial markets. i am confident that the system, if implemented correctly by esma, will enable our financial services industry to work well for participants at all levels, while at the same time ensuring the system security which was so lacking in the events of 2007-2008.
in writing. − i voted for this legislative resolution setting out minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields).
in writing. − the electromagnetic fields directive has been a long time in the making and it is incredibly important that we get it right. the 2004 directive as it stands is unworkable because it does not include an exemption for magnetic resonance imaging scanners. mri scanners can produce clear and accurate pictures of the human anatomy. they are indispensable in the fight against cancer and in diagnosing illnesses in children, who are particularly susceptible to harmful x-rays. i am pleased that parliament has agreed to postpone the transposition of the directive until 2013. this will allow time for the introduction of new legislation which is fit for purpose. we need to protect workers from over-exposure to electromagnetic fields, while ensuring that patients across europe receive the highest standard of care – including access to this important imaging technique. over-zealous health and safety rules must not mean a return to the medical dark ages.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which states that the creation of a european fiscal union should include an extended, rapid, efficient, user-friendly and, insofar as possible, automatic exchange of information among member states in order to step up the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. − i welcome this vote where meps have voted by an enormous majority (429-184 with 37 abstentions) for a single seat, the highest majority ever recorded. this reflects the economic and environmental costs of the controversial brussels-strasbourg arrangement.
in writing. − at a time of austerity we need to cut the bloated eu budget. as a member of the european parliament, i believe that this house should be the first to tighten its belt. the estimate for the cost of the european parliament for 2013 is eur 1.8 billion. this is a staggering amount which sticks in the craw of eu citizens, not least my london constituents. we need to make savings in the translation and interpretation services. we must do away with the costly ‘european house of history’ which is a boondoggle, a vanity project and an insult to every eu taxpayer. but the most obvious saving is staring us firmly in the face. we need to scrap the strasbourg seat. we are wasting nearly half a billion euro each year shuttling backwards and forwards between brussels and strasbourg. this travelling circus is making a mockery of the european parliament and it is time to bring down the curtain on this absurd waste of money.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. on 15 february 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of spain in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. this is the first application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 642 030 from the egf for spain. it concerns 1 138 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in 513 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 41 (‘construction of buildings’) in the nuts ii region of the comunidad valenciana (es52) during the nine-month reference period from 25 july 2010 to 25 april 2011. of these 1 138 redundancies, 747 were calculated in accordance with the second indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. a further 391 redundancies were calculated in accordance with the third indent of the same paragraph. the commission has received the confirmation required under the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2(2) that this is the actual number of redundancies effected.
in writing. − i voted against this report which aimed to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for construction workers in spain. a significant portion of the egf budget is dedicated to this fund but i do not believe that it offers value for money or indeed makes a genuine difference to people who have unfortunately lost their jobs due to the current economic crisis. more generally, i also have serious concerns about the commission’s proposals to extend the fund to the agricultural sector in order to compensate farmers for the potential negative effects of trade deals with third countries.
in writing. − i voted for this report. abolishing council question time in its present form would reflect the shift in the institutional balance as a result of the lisbon treaty. it would be sensible to retain the option of putting questions to the council – during a specific question hour – on matters relating to responsibilities other than those linked to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. − i am pleased to support this report. question time with the council is a pointless monthly exercise. during trilogue meps have the opportunity to discuss reports with the council. removing question time with the council will allow more time during plenary sessions for meps to question the commission. the more time we have to question the commission the more chance we have to scrutinise their decisions.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the national ice hockey federations of the eu member states and all other democratic countries to urge the iihf, including at its next congress in may in helsinki, finland, to re-discuss its earlier decision envisaging the possibility of relocating the 2014 world ice hockey championship from belarus to another host country until all political prisoners, recognised by international human rights organisations as ‘prisoners of conscience’, are released and until the regime shows clear signs of its commitment to respect human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because the situation in belarus is intolerable. belarus is further slipping into the mire of repression and brutality and the eu must not allow there to be a dictator on its doorstep. i welcome this resolution and i welcome the recent extension of restrictive measures against those belarusian officials who are subjugating civil society. however if sanctions are to work they must be followed to the letter. in january, the belarusian minister of internal affairs was able to visit interpol in lyon despite being on the list of officials banned from entering the eu. this is a flagrant disregard of the ban, and we must ensure it does not happen again. also we must look carefully into eu aid to belarus. while i appreciate the work that is done by eu projects supporting civil society, around eur 250 000 is going to swell the coffers of local authorities loyal to the lukashenka regime. i call on the commission to suspend all funding to belarus under the ‘local authorities in development’ budget line and to deliver this funding instead to human rights defenders and civil society organisations promoting democracy.
in writing. − the idea of a european endowment for democracy has been introduced into the more general eu debate on the review of the eu’s policies and actions promoting democracy, following the events in the southern mediterranean. the intention is to set up a semi-autonomous entity which could support democracy activists and democratic developments around the world in an unbureaucratic way and which would not be directly associated with eu diplomacy or the commission. this idea was put forward by the eu’s high representative and commission vice-president ashton and commissioner füle in the new outline of the european neighbourhood policy, presented in may of this year and later endorsed in the june council conclusions. the polish council presidency made the eed one of its presidency priorities and worked with all stakeholders to advance the idea. it is now up to parliament to give its constructive contribution to the debate which has advanced rapidly in the last weeks and make sure that parliament will be involved in the setting-up, the governance structure and the scrutiny of this european fund should it happen.
in writing. − i voted for this report which supports the establishment of a semi-autonomous entity in the eu which would support democracy activists and democratic developments around the world. considering the events of the arab spring, it is very important that the eu demonstrates its support and commitment to countries which are in the process of moving towards democracy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on serbia which calls on the serbian authorities to review immediately the controversial privatisation and sale of 24 companies regarding whose legality the commission has expressed serious doubts –these include ‘sartid’, ‘jugoremedija’, ‘mobtel’, ‘c market’ and atp vojvodina – and to declassify immediately documents concerning their privatisation and sale which are classified as a state secret, as this is contrary to european standards. the resolution draws attention in this respect to the utmost importance of compiling a thorough and complete record of public property in order to provide a secure and predictable business environment, ensure restitution of private property and prevent the illegal acquisition of public assets by private interests.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on kosovo which stresses that widespread and systemic corruption continues to be a major challenge in the country, as in the rest of the western balkans region, undermining the citizens’ trust in the rule of law and affecting their access to public services. it also welcomes the improvements in the legislative framework that have been announced, and calls for their swift and proper implementation and for efforts to tackle this challenge more proactively, in particular by enhancing the capacities of law enforcement agencies and of the judiciary in this regard, as well as by ensuring transparency in public procurement and tendering procedures. it stresses the need for a pro-active approach and for better cooperation between the anti-corruption agency, the police and the prosecution, emphasises that the existing climate of impunity, and the absence of adequate sanctions for corruption, presents one of the biggest problems in kosovo, and urges the kosovar authorities to develop a track record of prosecution of anti-corruption cases, including at the highest levels of political and economic power.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on turkish membership which stresses the interdependence between the european union and its member states and turkey, recognises the economic and growth potential of turkey and its significant role for regional stability and energy security, stresses that such interdependence is complemented by the value of potential synergies between the union’s and turkey’s foreign and security policy and neighbourhood policy, with benefits and reinforced leverage for both, but believes, however, that such interdependence can only produce positive results if it is framed in a context of mutual commitment, strategic dialogue and effective cooperation, successful delivery in the reform process and the implementation of reforms and good relations between turkey and neighbouring member states.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which welcomes the european council’s decision to aim to start accession negotiations with montenegro in june 2012 and calls on the member states not to unduly and unreasonably delay the launch of talks, given that montenegro has achieved significant progress to date in fulfilling the required benchmarks.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the reports on serbia, kosovo and montenegro and invite these candidate countries to continue and to accelerate their efforts to reform and embrace european union values. i voted in favour of the enlargement resolutions as i believe the eu should start accession talks with serbia as soon as possible and i welcome the accession talks with montenegro that are due to start in june. i believe the countries in the western balkans are making steady progress, reforming their institutions and moving closer to the eu. i also voted in favour of a resolution on the enlargement report for turkey as i support the eu-turkish process for membership but i believe the council should accelerate the accession negotiations and call on turkey to accelerate its reform process to fulfil aspects of all the copenhagen criteria.
in writing. − i voted against this report. voluntary codes to improve diversity on company boards, sustainability of the management and stakeholders’ involvement have proved to be ineffective in the past. companies are an integral part of our society, therefore they have to practice social responsibility with respect to their stakeholders, workers and society as a whole. that is why we want these rules to be binding and to impose sanctions when violated. we need to move from nice words to real measures.
in writing. − the report mainly covers two types of issues: financial controls and future lending policy. the ecr could have supported the parts of the report regarding financial controls. the report also, however, makes recommendations regarding current/future lending priorities. where these are based on a sound commercial basis the ecr group can support them. however too many of the proposals were too specific and represent an attempt to micromanage eib lending policy according to criteria that were ill-defined. the ecr takes a cautious position on project bonds and feels they need to be organised on a trial basis, with effective scrutiny of the potential liability, and so should not yet be given unconditional support. the report also fails to adequately address the issue of unrestricted liability for member states governments and the consequent effect on risk management and accountability with the eib. for these reasons the ecr abstained on the final vote on the motion.
in writing. − i supported this report but i agree with the committee on development which, in its opinion, ‘regrets that the eib is not prioritising investment in local companies in acp countries; deems that monitoring of global loans or loans for smes should be improved, to ensure that financial intermediaries properly implement the eib requirements, to ensure accountability, transparency and environmental sustainability in the use of funds made available to local smes; takes the view that the definition of smes used in each external region should be clarified, taking into account the structure of the local economies.’
in writing. − i supported the approval of the annual report on the activities of the european investment bank (eib) in 2010. i welcome the report as it encourages the eib to continue its activities to support the development of the european economy and foster growth, stimulate employment, and promote social and territorial cohesion with a special focus on projects for less-developed regions. the financial crisis has put great pressure on access to finance for smes in the eu and many companies are experiencing difficulties. this is why my colleagues and i supported the texts calling for greater support for smes by the eib as it is these businesses that create jobs and stimulate economic growth.
in writing. − although citizens’ rights are clearly enshrined in the eu’s legal acts, they are not always upheld in practice. therefore many people feel disenchanted with the european project. the committee on petitions (peti) attempts to rectify these shortcomings by placing citizens at the heart of its activities. turning its political influence to good account, it enters into direct dialogue with national or regional authorities in the member states concerned and tries to find quick, non-judicial remedies to the issues raised with it. in instances bringing forward allegations of serious infringements of eu law, which merit further consideration by the court of justice of the european union, the peti committee closely cooperates with the commission for the initiation of infringement proceedings. consequently, citizens’ rights are constantly promoted and secured through the petitions process.
in writing. − the eu citizenship report 2010 lays out a number of admirable aims. however, as is often the case in the european union, the report stretches beyond a justifiable level into areas which the eu should leave to member states. a call for the revision of ley de costas (the spanish coastal law) is one example of a welcome proposal, where people have unfairly found themselves exploited by a change in property law. i support sensible calls such as this. however, harmonising tax and social security systems across europe is going too far. member states must have jurisdiction in these areas and i know i am speaking for a majority of the british citizens whom i represent when i say this. i also find it difficult to support an increase in budget funds for euronews and for publicising the european year of citizens. is this really the most efficient way to spend money in the financial crisis we find ourselves in? had the report stuck to justifiable proposals i could have been in a position to vote for this report. because it does not, i have voted against.
in writing. − the eu citizenship report highlights the important ongoing citizens’ rights issues that must be addressed by the commission. the free movement of eu citizens is a basic right but people with disabilities, minority groups and same-sex couples are among those who continue to face obstacles when exercising this right. these barriers must be eliminated and by voting in favour of this resolution on citizens’ rights i join other meps in calling for member states to remove these legal and practical barriers. the resolution, which has my full support, also calls for the commission to tackle problems facing citizens in regard to access to information, electoral rights and the recognition of professional qualifications.
rapporteur. − mr president, our debate on the annual human rights report this year – although delayed – comes at an even more important time, because it allows us to make an input into the strategic review, which represents a once-in-a-generation opportunity to make human rights even more central to what we are about in the european union. if human rights are indeed a silver thread, the review must demonstrate that there is a silver bullet. in our vote tomorrow, we shall ask baroness ashton to appoint a special representative to ensure that europe’s voice on human rights is heard clearly on the world stage and that human rights are put on an equal footing with other foreign policy working groups in the council. indeed, we warmly thank her for adopting these proposals in the course of our joint discussions. we shall ask for a timetable to be set so that human rights focal points are designated in all our delegations worldwide. we ask for human rights organisations to be treated as partners and not simply as agents of delivery. we ask for concrete mechanisms so that allegations of human rights violations within europe do not compromise our ability to promote human rights outside. although it is always right to seek to protect those whose lives are at risk, there must be a major increase in the transparency of eu human rights policies, as accountability for those who abuse human rights can only be achieved if there is also accountability for those of us who seek to promote them. in this report, we name six eu countries which have failed to legislate for the international criminal court. we say that the european neighbourhood policy is wrong to tolerate thirteen countries which have failed to either sign or to ratify the un protocol against torture, and we name my own country – the united kingdom – which has shamefully obstructed eu ratification of the eu convention on human rights. to the high representative: i understand why you advocated ‘more for more’ in the wake of the arab spring, but we were negotiating improved trade terms with gaddafi just four weeks before we started dropping bombs on him. today we ask you to address the harder question of ‘less for less’. suspending the eu’s international agreements is too blunt an instrument, and one which is too rarely used. we ask for country-by-country human rights benchmarks and indices and for mechanisms to enable their use for a real escalation of response. mr president, i have long argued that speaking up for human rights is more important than staying silent for the sake of european unity. this is why we should congratulate belgium and austria for voting for the inquiry into settlements in the palestinian territories, and why we introduced an amendment maintaining support for the investigation of war crimes in gaza. whilst sincerely welcoming the cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs in not-always-easy circumstances, i regret that there was a left/right split in the votes at committee on this and on the issues of women’s rights, on discrimination against all religions and on justice for the victims of extraordinary rendition. i hope that tomorrow all of us will vote together for human rights. in this report, too, i have particularly examined the issues of social media and of business and human rights. just as there is a constant race for new technologies, there is a race between those harnessing new media for the purpose of liberation and those who seek to use it for repression. i do not hesitate to say that vodafone must learn from doing mubarak’s bidding or to give due credit to google for refusing to be complicit with censorship in china. i hope to come back to all these issues in my report on corporate responsibility later this year. finally, we call for a new human rights tsar to be appointed in order to put europe on an equal footing with the united states, where the post of assistant secretary of state for democracy and human rights exists; mechanisms to ensure full compliance with human rights by the european union within our own borders; concrete measures to demonstrate that we have learnt from past mistakes from before the arab spring; and an understanding that freedom of expression has a new meaning in a new media age. these are some of our key conclusions this year, and i commend them to the house. (applause)
madam president, i am pleased that the rapporteur is backing the amendment that i originally tabled in committee on the need for european accountability for rendition and torture abuses if the eu is to lead in the promotion of human rights in the world. i hope it will get wide support in plenary and that we will also push all eu states to sign and ratify the convention against forced disappearances. the eu is taking an international lead on the abolition of the death penalty, but a reply to a written question that i put to the high representative has not reassured me that eu funding for a regional partnership in central asia and neighbouring countries against drug trafficking avoids indirect facilitation of the execution by iran of drug smugglers. i have had the chance to mention this to her and i will take it further. i applaud her work on amending the torture goods regulation last year to require export controls on pharmaceutical drugs, like anaesthetics, which are being outrageously misused in lethal cocktails for executions, principally in the united states. finally, i would stress to richard howitt that i sought and obtained assurances that it is uk government policy for the eu to accede to the european convention on human rights. they are, perhaps, being a little anoraky about the details. i cannot speak for france, but i am told that in london there is no reneging on a policy commitment on the eu acceding to the convention.
madam president, baroness ashton will not be surprised that i cannot allow this opportunity to pass without mentioning camp ashraf. as you know, baroness ashton, 1 600 of the residents of ashraf have now moved to camp liberty near baghdad, which was supposed to be a temporary location where people would spend no more than a few weeks. in fact some have already been there for three months, and it looks as if they may be forced to stay there for much longer. the camp is insufficient to accommodate this number of people. they are living in dilapidated containers; the infrastructure has broken down, and yet the iraqi government is not allowing them to conduct their own repairs. they are not being allowed to bring ambulances from ashraf, to build ramps for disabled people or to build pathways over the gravelly surface to allow elderly and disabled people to communicate and walk around the camp. now, to make matters worse, the iraqi government has allowed representatives of the ministry of intelligence from iran to take up location next to the camp. this is a breach of human rights. please, baroness ashton, take some tough action against the iraqi government: tell them that they must accede to the demands of the residents of ashraf.
madam president, i quote the rapporteur: ‘for the eu to be a credible actor, […] it must act consistently […] and avoid double standards […] between internal and external policies’ – that is, it must not itself practise what it condemns in others. tyrannies ban or seek to ban political parties, but then so do belgium and germany. tyrannies ban heretical opinion on academic subjects – but do not think that begins and ends with the prosecution in turkey of orhan pamuk; france passed a history heresy law only this year, and several other eu countries have similar laws. tyrannies lock people up for expressing different political opinions from those of the political class. the unsuccessful prosecution of geert wilders had scarcely passed when we saw in this parliament the unlovely spectacle of the ‘commissar’ for justice, no less, drooling over the possibility of jailing wilders for his website. before the countries of the eu seek to spread the appreciation of human rights beyond their borders, they should put their own houses in order.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank baroness ashton for the commitment she has shown in this debate and her comments on her strong track record, her recognition of the importance of accountability, her commitment to involve parliament in the inter-institutional declaration on the review and what she has said on forced marriages and measuring performance. i pay due credit to the eu’s positions in the united nations, including on the death penalty, reflected in this debate and achieved under her leadership. i would also like to repeat my thanks for all the compliments given in the debate – not least from the shadows – and place on record my support for mr grzyb’s proposal for business and human rights to be integrated in eu trade policy. i welcome both his and other contributions from the epp group: from mr brok, ms matera, mr kukan and mrs gál. they have shown that we can have cross-party consensus on the issues in this report. to ms ludford i would say that the regular reports on the internal council meetings on accession to the european convention on human rights discussed both in this parliament and in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe make quite clear the uk’s opposition, and i am sorry that once again her party are making excuses for conservative anti-human rights positions. i hope that may change later his week, but i am not holding my breath. madam president, my thanks go to all who have quoted from my report stating that i am against double standards in human rights – they are right, and i have to say that goes for this debate; to mr claeys, who would win greater respect if he condemned both black and white murders in south africa; and to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, who appears to support the rule of law in argentina but not colombia. whilst i and my text strongly agree with the concerns expressed by meps szymański, belder, kowal, provera and posselt on the persecution of christians, it is important to say that this did not start with the arab spring. i hope they will join with me in condemning discrimination against all religions and beliefs in all countries at all times. i welcome the contributions from my colleagues ms de keyser and ms costello on lgbt rights. it is wrong that homosexuality could be classified as a disease, and i hope that meps will vote for amendments 7 and 8, which i have tabled to condemn this. i welcome the contributions from mr tavares and ms miranda on indigenous peoples’ rights, and i indicate to you my support for your oral amendment. finally, if high representative ashton’s arithmetic is correct, i have served as the 28th annual human rights rapporteur of this european parliament since the first direct elections. i would like to thank colleagues sincerely for giving me the privilege of undertaking this role.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group fully condemns the unilateral declaration of independence of azawad, which is exploiting the vacuum following the military coup which recently ousted malian president touré. the mnla (national movement for the liberation of azawad) separatist rebels must now hand over control of the northern areas which they currently control to the central political authorities in mali, as demanded by the international community. anything else will destabilise the strategically-vital sahel region. the mnla leaders should also now be subject to eu asset-freezing and travel bans until compliance is forthcoming. particularly worrying is the advantage gained from mali’s internal strife by extremist islamist factions. the al-qa’ida and the islamist maghreb, for instance, are almost certainly responsible for a series of barbaric kidnappings and murders aimed at westerners in this fragile region. i therefore now call upon the vice-president/high representative to mobilise eu resources to aid the constructive efforts of ecowas (the economic community of west african states) in restoring mali’s territorial integrity and to engage fully alongside the un with the newly-installed interim president traoré to help build a democratic mali based on the rule of law and with the aid of new, free and fair elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i appreciate the very careful way in which the high representative has worded her statement today. i understand the dynamics with which she is dealing here. she specifically used the term ‘syrian-led democratic transition’. that is a phrase that has been used by many european leaders over the past few weeks and indeed days. but the fact of the matter is that we are not going to have a syrian-led democratic transition without the essential ingredient of a unified and cohesive syrian opposition. that remains elusive at this stage, and we are not getting any information about what the international community, or we as a european union, are doing to help bring about the opposition that is required to effect the fundamental change that we are seeking. secondly i want to raise with you an issue that i have raised previously in relation to online activists: the way that the regime is targeting them, using very specific, very well-designed and very advanced technical methods to identify people and arrest them and ensure that they cannot get out the message to the outside world about the atrocities that are being committed.
mr president, the political and human rights situation in syria continues to deteriorate, sadly. reports this afternoon suggest that syrian government forces have once more started bombarding the free syrian army-held areas in and around homs, breaking with impunity the ceasefire under the un-annan peace plan. i now call upon the high representative to redouble the eu’s efforts in the ongoing international negotiations. the eu must push robustly for the un observer mission to start its important work urgently and without impediment. it is clear that assad has long lost any semblance of moral authority or legitimacy to rule as syrian president. according to the un, his remorseless attacks have left an estimated 9 000 civilians killed or wounded. the syrian government must ultimately be held fully accountable for all its actions and, if found to be in violation of its negotiated obligations, be subject to swift and firm sanctions from the entire international community.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i say first of all that i find myself in the very unusual position of agreeing with everything that baroness ashton had to say on this particular subject this evening. of course we can have nothing but the greatest admiration for the tenacity and courage of aung san suu kyi over all these years. she is an enormous example to all of us, and there are many members of this parliament who have campaigned for decades – in fact for longer than most of us have been here (perhaps not the sitting vice-president this evening, but certainly the rest of us). this parliament has campaigned for a very long time to bring about the sort of results that we are seeing. i just want to say a quick word, though, on the subject of sanctions, because some people are asking whether or not sanctions are ever useful. often, of course, they are the only recourse we have, short of armed conflict. in this case i am sure they have helped. david cameron, the british prime minister, was in burma last week. he has spoken to aung san suu kyi. he has spoken to president thein sein, and clearly they have all given certain messages to him which make him very confident that we should now suspend sanctions, with the exception of the arms embargo. but we must be wary, because democracy has not suddenly happened overnight in burma. there is a long way to go. there are still hundreds of political prisoners who are incarcerated and must be released, and i would be interested in your view, baroness ashton, as to whether thein sein faces any opposition in his own ranks and how strong his position is. so we have to take care, but i think we must also be seen to respond very positively to these developments.
that concludes the speakers’ lists for the groups. mr van orden, i was here in 1990 when aung san suu kyi won the sakharov prize but was of course unable to collect it. her late husband accepted it on her behalf. as the vice-president responsible for the sakharov prize, i hope very much that we will welcome her very soon to receive her own prize.
mr president, the recent elections in burma demonstrated the country’s substantial progress towards rejoining the international democratic community following decades of diplomatic isolation as a virtual pariah state. president thein sein should be congratulated on the reforms he is presiding over, and we all in this house congratulate and salute the courage of aung san suu kyi, who now is an mp again in her country. there is, of course, still room for democratic improvements. allegations of intimidation and bribery at the ballot box in the recent elections should be fully investigated and, as ana gomes said, the burmese military should publicly fully renounce their role in politics. i fully agree with the uk prime minister david cameron, who, whilst in rangoon, recommended that the more restrictive of the current eu sanctions should be lifted. burma has tremendous potential and should be afforded the assistance of eu investment and political support to achieve all that it is capable of. for once i am cautiously optimistic about this beautiful country.
mr president, i was also privileged to be part of the parliament delegation to burma. i had the pleasure of meeting aung san suu kyi in her home and i can only echo the words of david cameron when he said that everyone has been inspired by her struggle. however, i was also struck by her very cautious attitude to the way ahead. she was absolutely clear that any rush to completely remove sanctions would be premature and reminded us what happened after the last ‘free and fair’ elections in her country – that is, within months, the entire cohort of successful candidates were in prison as the military junta cracked down. she has welcomed proposals to suspend rather than lift sanctions and i believe that this is now the appropriate way forward. suspension will allow reform to continue and be rewarded but serve as a reminder that the world is still watching. on the other hand, i would also like to stress that it is vitally important for the well-being of the people of burma that we move quickly towards opening up the economy and encouraging strong and fair governance, both politically and financially. european companies can, and should, play an important part in harnessing the entrepreneurial flair of the burmese people and i look forward to seeing them thrive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on friday, 20 april 2012. could i just repeat the invitation to aung san suu kyi to come to strasbourg in december and receive her sakharov prize, much delayed but well deserved. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statement on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the black sea strategy.
mr president, jobs which could easily be saved are being lost in london because of eu legislation. the tate and lyle sugar refinery in the borough of newham has been forced to cut back on production and lay off 30 staff. this is because under eu quota rules they cannot buy the raw sugar they need within the eu. however, the commission has the power to change the rules and allow tate and lyle to buy what they need on the world market. i wrote to commissioner cioloş on 14 march asking him to urgently meet with tate and lyle so they could put their case for resolving the problem. so far i have not had a reply. we cannot afford to lose these jobs in one of the poorest parts of london. i urge commissioner cioloş to meet with tate and lyle as soon as possible in order to reach a solution.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done on this. as has been said, it is a highly technical document, but it is an extremely important one for individuals within the european union. as people have said, this is the latest update of what is – in many ways – one of the earliest pieces of legislation put in place by the european union. it has been extensively revised – a job that we finished in 2009 – and this is now the update. very soon we will be seeing how the new electronic system that underpins this is coming into effect, and hopefully it will be able to deal with citizens’ concerns more rapidly. this concerns the maintenance of rights for people who move across borders for whatever reason or who work in border areas. it deals with the areas of core social security, health care, unemployment, pensions, family benefits, etc. it is extremely important that those rights are upheld. i think we have got quite a citizen-friendly outcome from this first reading agreement. as we have been saying, it is designed to uphold the rights of individuals who are covered by social security systems. it was not put in place to provide an opportunity for businesses – particularly those with mobile workers – to cut costs by providing them with an opportunity to choose the cheapest place to register their workers for social security purposes. i am very pleased that we have actually managed to close that particular loophole within this revision, because to find yourself registered in a country where you feel you have no connection and to seek health care treatment, for example, in the country where you are resident, is bound to lead to confusion and a lot of difficulties for the individual. even though the company concerned may feel that it is doing a good deal for itself and its shareholders, it is not playing fair by its workers. so we are very pleased to have got the ‘home base’ definition in there, bringing it into line with other legislation to make it very clear to individuals exactly where it is that they are registered and therefore what rights they can expect. i think we have achieved a very good outcome, and we are very pleased to see it going through at first reading.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in these difficult economic times the eu should make it easier for companies to do business. as a former businesswoman i know it is natural for companies and firms to want to cut their costs. however, it is also important that companies do not dodge their obligation to pay social security. my constituency of london is the top destination for international investment in the european union. furthermore, foreign direct investment is a key driver to london’s success. when companies like microsoft or sony invest in london it stands to reason that these companies should pay into the british social security system. the same is true of their employees who live and work in the united kingdom. unfortunately, a loophole has allowed airlines and their employees to avoid making social security payments in their country of operation. some pilots and crew working in belgium, france, spain and other eu countries have actually been paying social security in ireland, where the companies’ aircraft are registered. this report puts an end to so-called ‘social dumping’ by obliging employers and employees to pay social security in their home base. i congratulate the rapporteur on this report and on closing a loophole which had been depriving member states’ social security systems of much-needed revenue.
mr president, the harmonisation of eu social security systems does not of course mean the harmonisation of the benefit systems themselves – that would be unachievable – but rather the harmonisation of access to those systems by all eu citizens. what this means is that many social security claimants will gravitate to those states with the most generous systems. in britain nearly five million people are on the council house waiting list, with little prospect of getting a home, but in some london boroughs almost 50% of social housing is given to people not born in the uk. many of these people will never have paid a penny in tax and will be living on state benefits. of course there is no point in homeless londoners emigrating to other eu member states to seek homes and income on their social security systems because the benefits will not be as reciprocal. no one should gain public housing or benefits in britain until they have paid tax for a considerable period of time.
mr president, in this european parliament, whatever the matter being debated, all roads lead to the same place: further and deeper political and economic integration. in the early days of what was the eec we were told that there was freedom of movement of labour: the right to work in other countries. if work could not be found, or if one’s job disappeared, people would come home. we are now moving towards freedom of movement of claimants. this coordination is portrayed as a safety net for hard-working, enterprising, self-employed people who fall on hard times. in fact its motivation is to support not people but a political objective: the maximisation of the movement of people to undermine national identities. in the words of the rapporteur, without such coordination there would be a risk that freedom of movement would be inoperable. in this field, as in all others, the measures are not designed to satisfy an autonomous demand or the desire of self-employed people to work abroad. it is part of a long-term plan to create and empower that demand.
the next item is question time and the topic is employment rights in a europe of open borders. i will interpret this as widely as possible, but i should warn you that if your question is completely off topic you will be cut off. i shall just remind you of the rules. questions are taken exclusively on a catch-the-eye basis. each member has one minute to put his or her question and 30 seconds to put a supplementary. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering. if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute’s speaking time. our experience, broadly speaking, is that we get through about 19 questions. we are, as you know, reviewing the new format of question time and i welcome any suggestions.
we have about half an hour left and i have too many questions for that time. on the basis of people putting their hands up asking for the floor, and based on groups, i have the following people still on my list who are likely to get called, but i cannot guarantee it: ms ţicău, mr bennion, ms mazzoni, ms berès, ms turunen, mr papanikolaou, mr omarjee, mr obermayr and mr niculescu. i am sorry but it is unlikely that we will get to any other questions.
we are not actually selecting on the basis of responsibilities or committees. it is basically a catch-the-eye procedure and it is based literally on that, plus the bias to allow for the groups. in fact there will probably be five socialist questions and only four from the epp this time. you are getting your fair share. we have already heard from mr tabajdi, mr cofferati, ms ţicău and ms regner and they are, i believe, in your group.
my concern is with the liability transfer proposals within the posted workers directive. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he does not think it is going a little bit too far to take this to european level, considering that most member states do not have these provisions in their whole legal framework. this applies particularly to those member states that have developed economies based on large numbers of very specialised contractors. in fact, these contractors are largely thought of as suppliers. would it not be true to say that there is a possibility here that we are moving towards a situation where customers will be held responsible for their suppliers’ actions? this is something that – in many member states – would be thought of as contravening natural justice. indeed, in some member states with highly competitive economies based on many small contractors, would it not in fact hinder a move towards a more competitive economy?
very quickly: i am probably not going to agree with the commissioner on this one, but instead of a supplementary, i just want to point out that mrs harkin actually thought she had been recognised from the panel by the chair’s aides very early on in the debate – before i even arrived – and she has not been called. i just wanted to point that out.
you are welcome to come and check the list i have in front of me, which will prove that we did it in this order.
my thanks to the commission and to colleagues. my apologies to those who were not called. that concludes question time.
madam president, i have voted in favour of this report for the coordination of social security systems across the eu, as it introduces the necessary updates and amendments – ones that have already been introduced at national level – to the existing eu legislation. whilst it is primarily a technical report, it clarifies the social security situation of those who pursue activities in different member states. similarly, it details how unemployment benefits would be distributed to self-employed individuals active in several member states. these are both important measures that will facilitate the free movement of labour, which is an integral part of the single market.
madam president, the current scheme against the sovereignty of the democratic nation state comes not from armed revolutionaries but from well-intentioned liberals. its inspiration is drawn not from lenin but from lennon. imagine there’s no countries, it isn’t hard to do. well, here is one consequence that would come from there being no countries: there would be no welfare states. the whole basis of social security is discrimination on the basis of nationality. there are many more needy people in the world than even the most needy citizens of eu member states. the only moral justification for not giving the whole of our tax revenues to more desperate populations in poorer parts of the world is that we discriminate on the basis of nationality. in this report you have the basis of effacing that distinction and thereby doing away with the origin of national states in their recognised form.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report on the coordination of social security. the report is a very technical one, but i believe that the outcome of the proposal put forward would be positive. i believe that the updates made to the regulation are worthwhile, given the constant changes to member states’ national social security legislation and the huge increases in the cross-border mobility of our citizens. the report ultimately gives clarification of the rules to those working across various member states, including legislation for aircrew members and rules on unemployment benefits for cross-border self-employed workers. clarification of these rules can only be a good thing for the single market. however, social security provision must ultimately remain a matter for the individual member states.
madam president, i voted against this report because i do not believe that the eu should be involved in social security matters. i think it is trespassing on international responsibilities, and it seems to be a world away from the trade agreement that the eu is meant to be about. i am particularly concerned about one aspect. i was self-employed myself: i ran a consultancy. this report refers to paying unemployment benefits to the self-employed throughout the eu. this again is undermining our flexible economy. in britain, when you are self-employed, you do things your own way and it gives people a lot of freedom. i think that is undermining this freedom. this report may be about technical matters but i am totally against it on principle. the eu should keep out of social security, pension and benefit matters.
madam president, i think that many people across the house will welcome the parts of the report that refer to cross-border coordination and mobility with a view to enabling workers to work throughout the single market. however, i think we all have to look at our social security systems. unfortunately, they have got to a stage where they are no longer a safety net to help those who – through no fault of their own – cannot help themselves, but in some ways they are actually acting as a barrier to people getting back to work. this is because the salaries that they can command are sometimes actually less than what they can get on benefits. we have to make sure that social security systems return to a situation where they are really providing a hand up rather than a hand out. i think that the other thing we have to be very careful about is to ensure that this is not a slippery slope for member states to start funding deficits in other member states and for workers who cannot get a job in one country to move to another country and simply claim benefits with no intention of ever working in that country. as long as we have those provisions, we can cautiously welcome this report.
madam president, the report rightly recognises the important role that the eu could play in promoting respect for human rights across the world and through its various policies. nevertheless, i have deep concerns about the references the report has made, particularly in accusing my member state – the uk – of adopting an obstructionist attitude concerning the eu’s accession to the european convention on human rights. the uk’s main point is that, whilst we support the convention, we should make sure that we focus on real human rights abuses, as opposed to legal loopholes that many are exploiting. currently the uk is being prevented from dealing with suspected terrorists and those inciting racial hatred as a result of the disproportionate emphasis in the echr on the right to family life. it seems a little illogical to be holding ourselves up as the global standard when we have not got the detail right in our own institutions. post-9/11, we have had to look carefully at the processes and mechanisms that we are using. we are still not there. we need to ensure that they really are fit for purpose, then we can look to influence human rights policy in the rest of the world. in the meantime, i have abstained.
madam president, liberties, as aldous huxley wrote, are not given, they are taken. he was of course writing in the british political tradition where civic freedoms and political rights are seen as legal entitlements that come from specific moments and specific contracts – the great charter, the bill of rights, or whatever. they are not seen as imminent, inherent or universal. the problem with that alternative vision is the lack of enforcement mechanisms. if rights are just assumed to be there for everybody rather than being enforced by elected representatives, they can be the finest and noblest principles in the world and, without the means to enforce them, they are meaningless. look at the constitution of east germany or the constitution of czechoslovakia or the soviet union. there you see all these fine, high-minded freedoms and yet, as the peoples of those unhappy states realised, without democratic accountability, it is not worth the paper it is written on. i will close by quoting benjamin disraeli, one of the few times the old adventurer got something spot on, when he said, ‘to the liberalism they profess, i prefer the liberties we enjoy, to the rights of man, the rights of englishmen.’
madam president, promoting human rights is an essential part of british foreign policy. eu member states must ensure that human rights and international law are respected throughout the world. this report identifies a number of key challenges. it condemns prosecution on the basis of religion, nationality or membership of a minority, or sexual orientation, it raises crucial issues related to women, such as forced marriages and female genital mutilation, and it underlines the importance of supporting a free and fair media as well as standing up for human rights defenders. yet, in a report on some of the world’s worst human rights abuses, i am shocked at the two countries which the rapporteur has decided to name and shame. does the report criticise belarus, burma, cuba perhaps? no, it chooses instead to deplore the attitude of the uk and france on eu accession to the echr. until the rapporteur gets his priorities straight on which countries are really obstacles to human rights, i cannot support this report.
madam president, the united kingdom has a strong record on the protection of human rights, but i want to focus on one aspect of human rights which i think is increasingly coming under threat, and that is freedom of religious expression. we hear of christians being punished by employers for expressing their faith, or christian businesses being fined for holding to their christian principles in how they conduct their affairs. it is quite clear that what is happening is a relentless orchestrated campaign to remove or at least to silence the manifestation of the christian message in today’s society. last week lord carey, a former archbishop of canterbury, said in a written submission to the european court of human rights that christians are being vilified by the british courts and driven underground. it is my hope that in september, when faced with the opportunity to stand up for christian rights in landmark cases before the european court, europe’s judges will do just that. many judgments are based on the grounds of equality law, and equality seems to protect all minority groups except for christians in what is sometimes a skewed and perverse interpretation of the term.
madam president, i abstained on this report, not because i do not believe in human rights – i very much do – but because conservative meps and i all feel that human rights are really about balance and getting the balance right. i have to say that my colleague who wrote this report, richard howitt, did not show much balance when he supported the rights of illegal travellers on illegal pitches at dale farm, whilst ignoring the rights of those local people who were so badly affected by them. that showed contempt for the rule of law. i am concerned that there is also a lack of balance in this report over things such as the european convention on human rights. just yesterday, the british government acted – quite rightly – to arrest abu qatada, who is an alleged terrorist and a man who has actually praised the hijackers of 9/11, after eight years. it took eight years to do that because of human rights legislation. this report supports that move towards the eu convention on human rights and eu support for it. so, let us get the balance right. human rights are good, but if the balance is not correct, it weakens the whole case for them.
madam president, the nagorno-karabakh conflict is sometimes spoken of as a frozen war, but i am not sure that is the right metaphor. it implies a stability that is not there. it would be better to think of it as some kind of infection under the skin that festers and poisons the surrounding region. it does not just prejudice relations between armenia and azerbaijan, it is also prejudicing relations between armenia and turkey – indeed also with iran, with russia and not least with the european union. it is extraordinary that so many years have passed without this issue being resolved. it is not for want of trying. virtually every international organisation has tried to mediate some sort of settlement. i just wonder whether the reason that we have not been able to reach an equitable and lasting peace is because the international mediation, run as it is by international diplomats, is based around the idea of multinational states and existing territorial borders. a while ago the former president of armenia, mr ter-petrosyan, said that if there has been a ceding of some of the territory of nagorno-karabakh, there might have been peace in 1997. 800 000 azeris and 400 000 armenians have been displaced. surely it is time to look at some alternative to the multi-national state, with some territorial readjustment if that is the way to bring lasting peace.
madam president, i support this report and the negotiations between the eu and azerbaijan as i believe it gives a fair and balanced account of the current state of play in that country. it currently recognises the urgent need for this country to make further progress on its respect for human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression, in particular in allowing political opponents to voice their opinions of the current government. despite these reservations, the report also recognises that the country has become a strategic partner for the eu in terms of energy supply and looks to build upon this mutually-beneficial relationship to enhance the development of relations between the eu and azerbaijan.
madam president, i voted along with the ecr group in favour of this report, as azerbaijan is an important country and a major supplier of caspian oil and gas to europe. i take a strong interest in the nagorno-karabakh conflict, and the fact that the wording, following the landsbergis amendment, is no longer the same in both reports is, i think, rather regrettable. i back the calls put forward for the de-escalation of tensions and the scaling back of military spending in the region as a whole. the recommendations put forward by the report in terms of improving the difficult human rights situation in azerbaijan are also commendable. it is particularly important that an improvement of relations through a dcfta and an association agreement between the eu and azerbaijan are dependent upon an improved human rights record in that country – which has a rather bad record in this respect – and especially on an improvement in the freedom of expression for political opponents of the government.
madam president, i wish to seek closer relations between the azeri people and those of the european union, but this is increasingly frustrated by their government. journalists, bloggers, politicians and others who dissent from the government’s opinion are regularly – indeed, almost routinely – harassed, imprisoned and maltreated. azerbaijan is bound by the european convention on human rights yet frequently violates its provisions. it participates in our eastern partnership programme, and yet its elections 18 months ago came nowhere near meeting our standards. in hosting the eurovision song contest it wishes to be seen as a modern democracy yet fails to allow its own citizens the freedom to sing their own songs. azerbaijan would score nul points for freedom. the imprisonment of members of the liberal musavat party, the fate of the aliev brothers, the harassment of leila yunus: these are among thousands of cases of blatant injustice. that is why i supported the excellent report by mrs jäätteenmäki insisting on improvements in the respect of fundamental freedoms before any association agreement can be signed.
madam president, there is always a danger of being fixated on some evil aspect of our past. history is important, but it should not be something that stands in the way of good relations with our friends in the present. we are in danger, when we look at our relations with armenia, of seeing everything through the prism of the unhappy events of the first world war. they were tangled and tragic happenings. no one – not even the most blinkered turkish nationalist – denies that many guiltless armenians, including many civilians, were killed. similarly, no one – not even the most vengeful armenian diaspora reparationist – denies that some armenians died in russian uniforms. but by emphasising above all whether we define these events as genocide, it seems to me we not only prejudice our relations with armenia, we also poison those between armenia and turkey – and we do no favours to the cause of the truth. the past should be disinterred gently and reverently, with all the patience of an archaeological dig – instead of which we are taking the shovel and we are slamming it through. the dead, i think, deserve better. they have suffered enough.
madam president, the report on the negotiations on the eu-armenia agreement is timely given that parliamentary elections are due to be held in a couple of weeks’ time. the report highlights the significant progress that still needs to be made in a number of areas, particularly stressing the pressing need to continue to fight corruption. moreover it emphasises the need for armenia to resolve the conflict and the land disputes that it is involved in so that it can work towards ensuring regional stability. i sincerely hope that armenia fulfils its pledge to hold free and fair elections for the benefit of all its citizens and that eu-armenian relations can develop on a positive path over the coming years.
madam president, stability in the south caucasus is a major concern for the european union, as it is a region that has had a series of armed conflicts in the past and is today a major energy corridor linking europe to the caspian sea. these conflicts have involved outside parties such as russia and turkey, and any escalation or return to hostilities between armenia and azerbaijan would be catastrophic. therefore, improved bilateral relations, via an association agreement and a dcfta between the eu and both armenia and azerbaijan, are much in the european union’s interests. it is also to be hoped that this will give the eu more leverage with the minsk group of the osce to find a lasting solution to the nagorno-karabakh question. i am confident that the forthcoming armenian parliamentary elections will be free and fair, and it is essential that all eu assistance be provided to this small, land-locked country. it is also to be hoped that turkey will reopen its border with armenia, which has now been unjustifiably shut by turkey for more than 20 years.
in writing. − i voted against these proposals as i believe it is a matter for the airlines and nation states concerned rather than an issue that needs to be addressed by the eu. despite the proposals making sense, i fear that the encroachment by eu legislation into the coordination of social security systems will establish a case-based incentive to homogenise social security systems in other fields of work throughout the eu. the legislation is also designed to cover cross-border self-employed workers. social security systems are often idiomatic to the country in which they are drawn up and it is vital that this distinction is able to remain intact, especially concerning unemployment benefits. for example the welfare payments in one member state may be significantly higher than in another eu country, enabling legal loopholes allowing welfare tourism to be exploited. for example, i am particularly concerned by the part of the proposal that states that, if a self-employed person who works in another eu country returns to his or her home country which does not have unemployment insurance for the self-employed, then the country where he or she last worked should pay the unemployment benefits.
in writing. − parliament has today voted to end the dubious practice whereby airlines were able to register their staff, for social security purposes, in countries offering the least level of protection. the closing of this loophole is a welcome step and will give the workers increased rights.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the new rules will improve the functioning of the single market by enhancing the social protection of a high number of mobile workers in the eu, such as aircrew members and cross-border self-employed workers. the new regulation introduces the concept of a ‘home base’ for granting aircrew members access to social security rights. the home base is where pilots and cabin crews ‘normally start and end a duty period’ and ‘where the operator is not responsible for the accommodation of the crew member’. legal loopholes in european legislation have in the past allowed a few low-cost airlines to apply social security systems that are deemed to be the least onerous, irrespective of the crew member’s home base.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support this report, which calls for better social protection for cross-border workers and those working in the aviation industry. so called ‘mobile’ workers will see their social protection enhanced by the introduction of the ‘home base’ concept. this measure means that airline staff will not have a different legal status every time their shift pattern moves to a new country. i welcome moves to improve the situation of unemployment benefits for self-employed workers who perform cross-border work on a regular basis. if a self-employed person working in an eu country and contributing to its unemployment schemes then moves to another country which does not have the same unemployment benefits for self-employed workers, the country in which he or she last worked should pay unemployment benefits. this measure will protect those who work abroad or who need to relocate and work in another eu country.
in writing. − i am happy to vote in favour of the eu accession to the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia. the eu has many common interests with the asean countries, with strong economic ties including large diaspora communities in european member states and regions such as my own west midlands constituency in the uk. i welcome closer cooperation between the eu and southeast asia and am delighted to support the accession to a treaty which is so closely in line with the social and economic objectives of the european union in promoting peace, stability and cooperation in the region through settlement of disputes by peaceful means. i also welcome the enhanced cooperation in economic, trade, social, technical and scientific fields and the expansion of trade and economic infrastructure which is of significant mutual benefit in the context of the current economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the eu should not, in my opinion, have a unified presence in foreign affairs. the current signatories to the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia (tac) are all nation states. indeed the treaty must be amended in order to allow the accession of non-state entities. whilst i fully support the aims of the treaty, it is for the united kingdom to sign independently and not the preserve of the eu to become a signatory on behalf of the 27 member states to any international agreements.
in writing. − article 2 of the treaty of amity and cooperation outlines the fundamental principles within which it operates and, of these, the first is a ‘mutual respect for the independence, sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and national identity of all nations’. i wholeheartedly endorse that principle and welcome this house’s overwhelming decision to do likewise.
in writing. − the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia (tac) was signed into force by the original members of asean in 1976. its purpose is to promote peace, stability and cooperation in southeast asia. while the tac was originally designed to apply only to states within the southeast asian region, it was amended in 1987 to allow for states outside the region to accede to it. besides the member states of the asean, the following countries are parties to the treaty (in chronological order of accession): papua new guinea, china, india, japan, pakistan, south korea, russia, new zealand, mongolia, australia, france, east timor, bangladesh, sri lanka, north korea, united states. in july 2006, eu member states agreed to initiate proceedings towards the accession of the eu to the tac. however, the tac first had to be amended further to allow for the accession of non-state entities. given the non-controversial nature of this accession, which will enhance the eu's presence and visibility in the region, i supported this report.
in writing. − i have abstained from this vote as voting against the convention would amount to consenting to the decision to not convene on a draft protocol. i am in favour of an open democratic event such as this. however there are elements of the protocol such as article ii covering taxation which i find hard to believe. the article states that ‘nothing in the treaty of lisbon makes any change of any kind, for any member state, to the extent or operation of the competence of the european union’.
in writing. − i supported this report, which decided against the calling of a convention. the heads of state or of government at the european council on 19 june 2009 have already agreed on the substance of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol, so the issue has already been politically settled and does not justify convening a convention.
in writing. − i voted for this report which points out that article 1 of the draft protocol – when stipulating that nothing in the treaty of lisbon affects the scope and applicability of the protection of the right of life, the protection of the family and the protection of the rights in respect of education provided by the constitution of ireland – refers to matters which do not constitute areas of union competence under articles 4 and 5 of the treaty on european union and articles 2 to 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, or for which the union has only a complementary role (article 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union).
in writing. − i voted against this report as, sensu largo, i oppose affording legislative intrusion on the eu’s outermost colonies. whilst it is important many smaller colonies of the 27 member states are protected and helped to develop it is the symbiotic responsibility of political agreement between the nation state and the colony on how legislative power is devolved and which policies would best suit the colony concerned.
in writing. − i supported this report. the outermost regions of the european union comprise a set of regions which, due to the specific characteristics associated with their physical and structural conditions, and as a result of their remoteness, insular locations, difficult topography and climate, constitute a specific group of regions recognised by article 349 of the tfeu. these regions possess a special status enshrined in the treaty, which permits a derogation from the rules of the treaty and the adjustment of these rules to the outermost regions, by virtue of their particular characteristics and conditions. as the constraints and difficulties facing these regions are permanent and distinguish them from other european regions, the eu rules and programmes cannot be applied in the same way as in the rest of the eu territory. their implementation has to be guided by a territorial approach. it is therefore necessary and desirable to examine, in relation to the future cohesion policy of the outermost regions, how the eu 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth can be achieved in these european regions, which possess permanent characteristics and constraints – arising mainly from their remoteness – which justify the adoption of specific measures by the european union.
in writing. − i voted against this as i do not believe the eu should have or indeed does have, other than self-professed, authority to act as an arbiter of human rights. most of the judgment calls made by the echr that france or the uk chose to defy were controversial decisions that left nations incredulous at the ineptitude of the judicial process carried out by unelected judges in strasbourg. it is somewhat onerous that the eu has applied for accession to the echr in its own right and this can be seen as prescriptive for what is likely to come. the revelation that the eu wishes to set out punitive measures against columbia, and also send baroness ashton to gaza on a fact-finding mission, suggests the eu is asserting diplomatic and peacekeeping powers upon itself that it is in no way, shape or form entitled to claim. we do not want the eu attempting to usurp the powers of the un or nato and it is abhorrent that a supranational body with such a democratic deficit believes it can be an intermediary actor on the global stage.
in writing. − amendment 7 ukip deplores violence against lgbt people. however, we do not feel the eu can order britain to grant asylum on the grounds of sexual orientation. we also note the fact it is very easy to lie about sexual orientation in the context of fraudulent asylum applications. amendment 11 ukip opposes torture. however, we object to the eu speaking in our name on this topic.
in writing. − the eu has an important role to play globally in the promotion of human rights and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report which stresses that, for the european union (eu) to be a credible actor in external relations, it must act consistently, in accordance with treaty and acquis obligations and avoid double standards between its human rights policy and other external policies, between internal and external policies, and in the conduct of its relations with third countries, combining this approach with the challenge of developing the human rights country strategy papers and implementing action plans, which must also cover democratisation, reflecting the specificity of each country as regards impact, and making full use of the eu’s relevant instruments
in writing. − the uk conservatives wholeheartedly believe in human rights and equality for all, regardless of sex, age, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation; and therefore there is much in this annual report which we strongly support. however, we strongly believe that health, immigration and security are the prerogative of individual eu member states. for these reasons, the uk conservatives could not support this report.
in writing. − i am a strong supporter of genuine human rights and have campaigned vigorously for them in regard, for example, to burma and zimbabwe – but there is no mention of either country in the report. it contains much with which i can agree but inevitably it is distorted by political prejudice. the left, as reflected in this report, seems to think that just about everything is a fundamental human right, that all policies should be subordinated to 'human rights', that migrants should have special treatment, and that terrorist suspects are particularly deserving of protection. it displays a particular obsession with gender issues. curious legal interpretations of the european convention on human rights have seriously distorted the convention's original purposes yet the report seeks to encourage accession by the eu to the convention and 'deplores' any efforts by the uk and france to thwart this. i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i am fully supportive of this excellent report, which outlines the parliament’s response to the council’s annual human rights report 2010. the concrete recommendations made by the report look at improving the coherence and effectiveness of human rights policy. the emphasis placed by the report on more effective human rights dialogues, support for the international criminal court, better election support and stronger human rights and democracy clauses in trade agreements is particularly important. the eu must be effective and influential in issues such as combating torture and eradicating the use of the death penalty, and i believe that this report, which calls for a new eu special representative on human rights, will increase the eu’s influence in the un human rights council and at the international criminal court.
in writing. − while i support efforts from the international community to recognise and ultimately address ongoing conflict in azerbaijan and while it is paramount that ethically sound trade deals and third country negotiations take into account such problems in their creation, i cannot endorse eu negotiations in azerbaijan as i do not acknowledge the european union as an entity that should have an individualised and unified approach to foreign affairs. while the report recognises the deficit in democracy, restrictions on individual freedoms and the stifling of expression as administered by the ruling party, it is not the duty of the european union to highlight and address these issues but of supranational organisations elected to represent the voice of its members in the field of international relations and the sovereign prerogative of nation states themselves.
in writing. − i welcome the paragraph in this repot which urges the azerbaijan authorities to step up implementation of the core conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo).
in writing. − i am delighted to be in a position to vote in favour of the report on negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement. this follows a number of welcome recommendations in the report which i feel are essential if eu-azerbaijan relations are to continue on the road to a final agreement. for example, the protection and promotion of human rights is of course vital in this regard and reflects principles already enshrined in the constitution of azerbaijan. the report gives an important reminder that deeper relations with the eu depend on adherence to the rule of law and the importance of freedom of expression for political opponents. this ties in with concerns expressed over the registration of ngos and political parties, and of course a resolution to this problem must be found if eu standards are to be met. civil society organisations must also be given room to hold government to account. these recommendations form the basis of a free and fair society and must be taken on board by the council, commission and external action service in their negotiations with azerbaijan.
in writing. − while i support efforts from the international community to recognise and ultimately address ongoing conflict in armenia and while it is paramount that ethically sound trade deals and third country negotiations take into account such problems in their creation, i cannot endorse eu negotiations in armenia as i do not acknowledge the european union as an entity that should have an individualised and unified approach to foreign affairs. while the report recognises the deficit in democracy, restrictions on individual freedoms and the stifling of expression as administered by the ruling party, it is not the duty of the european union to highlight and address these issues but of supranational organisations elected to represent the voice of its members in the field of international relations and the sovereign prerogative of nation states themselves.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls for the incorporation into the association agreement of clauses and benchmarks on the protection and promotion of human rights which reflect the highest international and european standards, drawing to the fullest possible extent on council of europe and osce frameworks and the ongoing eu-armenia human rights dialogue.
in writing. − an association agreement between the eu and armenia is in the interests of both parties. we in the eu have a stake in a stable and democratic armenia, while armenia has european aspirations of its own. therefore, this report is important for laying the foundations of negotiations. a crucial factor in these negotiations are the elections, which are to be held on 6 may of this year, and it is right that the proper conduct of these elections plays a vital part in the future development of eu-armenia relations. however, as the report points out, this also includes plurality, freedom of political discourse, free speech and media and freedom of assembly throughout the entire election process. a second important factor must also be the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, and i am happy that this report addresses that issue. i fully support confidence-building measures such as demilitarisation, as well as human rights measures such as the right of all internally displaced persons and refugees to return to their homes. i am therefore happy to vote in favour of this report which is based upon such strong recommendations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eurozone has experienced several months now, as mr verhofstadt reminded us, of a sort of sugar rush, thanks to the ecb’s cheap credit. now the sugar has worn off and the hangover is well and truly kicking in – and, unsurprisingly, we discover that the eurzone faces all the same problems that it faced beforehand. solutions will only be identified when our leaders finally decide to put the economics ahead of the politics and hard-headed realism ahead of financial federalist romanticism. my group, fortunately, represents predominantly non-euro nations, so i feel best placed to offer some impartial, honest and realistic advice. it is all part of the service that we offer, guy. as i see it, there are two rational options. either, firstly, germany and some of the other northern european states accept that they are going to have to enter into a full-scale fiscal transfer union with permanent flows of money – not just loans – from northern europe to southern europe, or, alternatively, we allow the lightning rod of this crisis – which has become the poor people of greece – the opportunity to leave the euro and to devalue their way back into the marketplace. i can understand why german taxpayers and dutch taxpayers and others are rather reticent about allowing their hard-earned taxes to flow to a number of unreformed countries. similarly, i can sympathise with the poor greeks, who are reluctant to hand over any more of their economic sovereignty. that leaves us only with the option that greece should be allowed to leave the eurozone, to default and to devalue. a 10-year-old child could work that out. in fact a 10-year-old child did work that out. i have here a wolfson prize essay from jurre hermans, who is a 10-year-old from the netherlands, and it sets out a plan for how greece can leave the euro. he won a prize for it. i particularly like the picture that he drew illustrating how all this would successfully work. in his essay, jurre says ‘i think about solutions’ – which i have to say is more can be said for some of the euro’s leaders. instead of solutions, what we have seen is finger pointing, and i agree with spanish prime minister rajoy that it is not right for others – most notably the electioneering nicholas sarkozy – to point fingers in the direction of spain. instead, it is time for the euro leaders to make a decision. the choices are simple either germany and northern europe pays, or greece leaves, or the euro fails. the choice seems obvious to me; it seems obvious to 10-year-old jurre. i am just sorry that it does not seem so obvious to some of our eurozone leaders.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it is a great shame mr van rompuy is not here, because a month ago he told us that the worst was over and we had reached the turning point; he even told us that he had solved the euro crisis. today we have a more realistic mr barroso, who says that if we follow his policies and stick together, we can solve this in the end. sorry, no one believes you anymore, and actually, in the face of the rapidly deteriorating situation, these comments look ridiculous. in spain, mass unemployment gathers by the day, and internal democracy in spain is now under threat. in italy – where we were told mr monti would sort it all out – growth figures are falling and the bond spreads are worsening. now an imf official has come out and said that it is obvious that at some point a euro breakup will happen. these are big changes: the euro is doomed, and with your policies, sir – even if greece accepts the austerity you are imposing on them, and even if for the next eight years they obey all this – in 2020 they will still have a debt gdp ratio of 120%, which makes one ask: what is the point? in spain: if spain was able to increase... the difference is, sir, britain is not trapped inside the economic prison of the euro. now take this: if spain was to increase, if she increased her productivity growth by half a per cent a year (which at the moment looks unlikely), it would take her forty years to close the competiveness gap with germany. these countries were sucked in to a totally false economic boom with artificially low interest rates, and they are now paying the price. these policies cannot succeed. mercifully, outside of this institution, economists the world over now say it is inevitable that the euro will break up; it is just a question of how. i really hope that the imf now decides to stop pouring good money after bad into these bailouts, and i really do hope that not one penny piece more of british taxpayers’ money goes into propping something up that should be allowed to die.
mr president, markets can be made happy with a time horizon of a few months, and on each upward cycle the wise get out of the dodgy assets. recycling of panic therefore suits the smart, but we have to stay fixed on the longer term and recognise that it will not be smooth. the eu has put huge resources into containing the crisis, including through the imf. politics prevented faster action: that is regrettable, but it is a fact of life. however, with all the billions that are pledged to the rescue packages, it seems lunacy to be reining back on the eib when the search for growth is urgent. the eib is a fantastic means to leverage growth, and member states should think again. i am also conscious that there are, and will be, unintended consequences on growth from our regulation. deleveraging by banks, reducing sme loans in trade financing and perverse incentives to short- rather than long-term investment are already evident. it is vital to find a way to deal with this during the regulatory process and subsequently. finally, getting out of the trillion of the ltro looks challenging, but we should not forget that there are eur 800 billion parked with the ecb by nervous banks. i was given a minute and a half by my group. i have one sentence left. if you took that eur 800 billion and had that invested in euro area two-year bills under common issuance, that would satisfy all significant sovereign needs. we have here an opportunity to kill two birds with one euro bill.
mr president, the sovereign debt crisis has raised many different opinions on the best way to resolve it and how to return the eurozone and the eu as a whole to economic growth. although we do not currently have all the answers, there are already important lessons to be learned from the eurozone crisis, some of which need to be learned in my own constituency. it is clear that one of the problems identified in spain has been the level of public debt and liabilities assumed by their regional governments, to which a clear value of the amount outstanding is only now emerging. it has left the spanish debt market in disarray and lacking investor confidence. i am therefore disappointed that my own welsh government is currently seeking to raise new debt in the markets. any welsh debt would ultimately be the liability of the uk government and would replicate the failed spanish experiment. under the new eu stronger economic governance and debt management regimes, surely those liable for the debt need to assume control for all monies raised, whether privately, through the eib or, more worryingly, in the capital markets? when member states rightly bear the ultimate responsibility for the debt and the resulting debt ratios, systems of accountability need to be ensured. i hope the silk commission in wales and those that favour eurobonds in the eurozone heed the spanish experience.
mr president, the ailing countries of southern europe must withdraw from the eurozone, return to their own currencies and allow the values to fall to their market levels. this will lead to export-led expansion in each country. austerity measures are strangling the economies of these ailing countries – they need expansion, not suffocation. the embrace of neo-liberalism and globalism must be abandoned. the challenge from the emerging economies like china must be tackled head on. we must protect our economies from their cheap exports, kept low by artificially low wages and undervalued currency. infrastructure must be rebuilt, repaired and brought up to date by public initiative. this must be financed by delayed payment quantitative easing and not by interest-bearing debt. president obama, introducing his american job spill, saw the contradiction between infrastructure and disrepair and unemployed construction workers. we nationalists have a principle. what is physically possible should be financially possible. if it is not, there is something wrong with the financial system.
mr president, i have three points to make. firstly, public finances are still in a mess. we have to stop wasting taxpayers’ money so it can be spent where it is needed. the eu should be leading by example, but instead it is still throwing money at vanity projects. so let us stop them. secondly, we need to stop just talking about growth and competitiveness and take action. we have to cut bureaucracy for businesses, but instead the eu puts barriers on our businesses, costs on our consumers and impediments on our investors. let us stop them. thirdly, the economic crisis started in the financial sector. four years on, this week the share prices of some of europe’s biggest banks are still tumbling. the ecb’s eur 1 trillion sticking plaster is not working. reforming financial services is not a political toy. our basel commitments are vital, but measures that force our largest services industry to relocate overseas must be stopped.
mr president, unlike italy and greece, spain did not get into trouble due to reckless structural deficit. the euro is the cause of spanish woes. it allowed the real estate boom and enabled private debt to soar but, when the bubble burst, banks could not maintain liquidity and faced insolvency. but due to the euro, spain could not print money to bail out the banks. it had to borrow in bond markets, forcing the deficit to grow rapidly. the government could not then finance aggressive stimulus spending to soften the recession. spain’s debt-to-gdp ratio was smaller than germany’s, but the european union insisted that the government slash spending to force the deficit down. this caused growth to stagnate, unemployment to boom and private investment to stall, leading to the protracted implosion we are witnessing. spain’s banks are now entirely dependent on emergency loans from the european central bank. youth unemployment is at 51%. hundreds of thousands of people are on the streets demonstrating against the austerity which is destroying their country. surely it is time to scrap the euro – or are you just going to issue another pointless bail-out and continue to wreck people’s lives?
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i wish to thank you, and in particular marianne thyssen for her work on this report. i welcome the positive views from the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on our proposal for a ccctb. it was one of our flagship legislative initiatives for 2011. a system of common rules for calculating the tax base across the eu is expected to significantly improve the business environment in the single market. it will contribute to the efforts for bringing the union back to growth and prosperity. i would like to address five main points in the report. first, the commission proposed the ccctb as an optional system. i believe that an obligatory scheme would introduce a significant burden by obliging businesses with purely domestic activities to bear the cost of switching into another tax system. second, i am convinced that an apportionment mechanism based on a formula of three equally-weighted factors – sales, assets and labour – is the most appropriate solution. it creates a fair balance between the states of origin and destination. i would also say that there is no economic evidence which suggests that a weight of 10% for the sales factor is a better option. third, the commission would not be opposed to the idea of setting up a forum with tasks similar to those of the joint transfer pricing forum, provided that the outcome of such an effort does not create a risk of incompatibility with the treaty. in this regard, the reference to a ‘dispute settlement body’ with possible binding decisions could be found to conflict with the treaty. fourth, the commission has consistently made it clear that the ccctb proposal is only meant to deal with the rules for computing the corporate tax base and should not touch upon minimum tax rates. increasing the exemption threshold to 70% in certain anti-abuse clauses would inevitably and unnecessarily raise arguments at a political level about a minimum corporate tax rate in the eu. i should finally mention that the review clause as suggested by the commission (five years after the directive entered into force) can offer opportunities for improving the ccctb scheme. its scope is very broad. by listing the issues to be addressed, we would lose the flexibility we need to analyse the points raised in your report. these were my main points of concern, but in general i welcome the report very much and i am looking forward to a very positive vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, harmonised taxation is simply a ploy to enable bureaucrats to steal even more money from the wealth-creating sector. like vampires they prey upon ordinary folk, sucking the lifeblood out of the economy – and for what? tax-free salaries, non-contributive pension schemes, winter sunshine trips to durban and cancún, suicidal remote energy policies and constant rescue packages for failed banks. without tax competition, europe would be bled white in pursuit of a maniacal political crusade. high tax would banish manufacturing to the far east, the indian subcontinent and north america. the baltic states, ireland and fellow entrepreneurial ex-warsaw pact countries would slip back into the abyss. athens and madrid would become dublin and warsaw, but i suspect that before that time, ordinary folk will have cried enough and the parasites will have to head for the hills, as well they may. for certain the irish, i suspect, will have their own way of dealing with them when they eventually awake from their slumber.
blue-card question. – surely experience has shown that low taxes mean more jobs and more growth. why, therefore – as you stated – is fiscal competition harmful?
mr president, at this time of crisis parliament should bring forward proposals that assist growth and job creation, and instead we have a proposal to harmonise the corporate tax base. this is a very bad idea. tax competition is good. it keeps governments honest. it stops them taking too much money from the productive sector of our economy, and we in the eu should aim to keep corporate taxes as low as possible. this is a backdoor step to try and ratchet corporate taxes up. this proposal also treads on the powers of the nation states. we should remember in this place that it is for the nation states to decide what taxes to levy on their citizens. long may that remain so.
mr president, if pushing for greater political and economic integration and harmonisation were a criminal offence, the eu would be pulled in as the first and only suspect. its fingerprints would be all over the scene of the crime. however, more charitably, we can see it as a repeated nervous tic or obsessive-compulsive disorder. a demand for a common consolidated tax base can be seen simply as a different example of the same tic, another obsessive desire for greater political integration. this morning, it was integration by coordination of the social security system; in the early evening, it is integration by a common corporate tax base; later this evening, the target for integration will be taxation on electricity and energy products. do these people dream about greater political and economic integration? when they are invited to parties – if they are – and see an attractive member of the opposite sex – or the same sex, if you prefer – do they try to sweep them off their feet with coded references to political and economic integration, possibly coupled with an unpleasant leer? i only ask out of curiosity.
in writing. – the commission have assured us that it is not their intention to harmonise rates of corporate tax across europe. nevertheless, this proposal represents the eu encroaching on an area which properly lies within the competence of individual member states. this raises questions not just of subsidiarity but, more fundamentally, of national sovereignty as the dáil éireann and others have noted. these problems are compounded by calls in this house for harmonised tax rates in the future. such calls only serve to turn our citizens against the eu. the ability to set tax rates must remain one of the fiscal tools available to each independent member state.
mr president, there is so much wrong with this proposal that in sixty seconds i hardly know where to start. first of all, it is a move towards tax harmonisation. but tax harmonisation is a cartel operated by governments against the interests of citizens. the united kingdom independence party, which i represent, is in favour of tax competition, not tax harmonisation. secondly, the proposal aims to increase energy taxes. this will reduce the profitability of european companies and undermine europe’s competitiveness in global markets. thirdly, the proposal adds yet another layer of complexity to the existing multiple layers of energy taxes and regulations. fourthly, taxation is and must remain a national competence. this measure represents an unwarranted interference by the brussels institutions in the internal affairs of member states. for all these reasons i call on colleagues to reject the proposal.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the creation of a risk-sharing instrument to enable the full take-up of regional funds through private-matched funding is not objectionable in its purposes. but the fact that the commission has had to resort to the creation of such a facility to underwrite loans from the private sector further demonstrates that the approach to the financial crisis in the euro area is simply not working. this is yet another example of the commission seeking to equip themselves with a legal tool to fight a particular battle while the war still rages because the bigger issues are not being addressed. ardent pursuance of homogenised policy-making reflecting european ideology places a stranglehold on growth and is responsible for the ongoing euro crisis. the risk-sharing instrument enables the commission to blindly pursue european ideals through regional funding that may or may not reflect the best interests of the member state concerned, while continuing to live in denial, since it is actually the absurdity of the whole european project that is creating this mess in the first place.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, speaking for the s&d group, we will be having a free vote. in committee there was a small majority in favour of the pnr agreement, but you will hear arguments against that agreement from our shadow and others. i will be speaking in favour of this pnr agreement and will vote for it, for the following reasons. our group had three critical aims. we felt that this agreement, despite – as others, including the commissioner, have said – no international agreement being perfect, was one whose scope was just too wide and went beyond terrorism; we said there was too long a retention period; and that it was taking in ‘pull’ methods as well as ‘push’ methods. in the end, two out of three of the critical key concessions were included. two out of three was enough, in my opinion, for us to say that this agreement was enough. that was a very difficult judgment to make, but the scope was substantially narrowed: minor crimes were excluded and the retention period for serious crimes reduced. also, although the usa has not fully agreed to move fully on the pull / push issue, data will now only be pulled in exceptional cases where there is a serious and urgent threat. this is by no means perfect, as the commissioner and minister have said, particularly as regards the push / pull issue, but we had to reach a conclusion at some point, following difficult negotiations. in committee, a small majority from my group felt that, while this agreement did not meet all our requests, it is undeniable that the text has been fundamentally improved. it constitutes the only legal and binding framework for the transfer of eu-us pnr data. a ‘no’ to this agreement, as many have said and will say, will leave a clear position of 27 bilateral agreements with no common rules, no ep monitoring and citizens being left in a legal void and being subject to contrasting regimes, which i believe is not in the interest of european union citizens. finally, concerning difficulties about setting a precedent, the agreement clearly states that it will not constitute a precedent for other agreements in this field. that is, in my view, satisfying when we look at the agreement as a whole. this is not a perfect situation, and what we have to say to the commissioner – and this is certainly true of those in my group who would want to support this agreement – is that the commission should take parliament seriously when it reviews this agreement. commissioner, we do not have the political power to terminate this agreement if it goes wrong and strays into other areas. if we support this agreement then you must support us and take us seriously, politically, should it go wrong or go beyond the remit that you have set.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, those who report on the activities of this parliament have attached the word ‘controversial’ to this agreement, but the improvements to the text during our long deliberations in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) have received support from across five political groups, as well as from the council and the commission. i disagree with the rapporteur. these improvements are significant. despite that, certain individuals and certain groups in parliament do not trust the judgement and legal authority of the commission. a negotiation between two sides, two parties, two countries or two allies will never result in a perfect agreement and we cannot, and should not, expect that. however, the united states is our most trusted third-country partner, whose security vulnerabilities and recent history cannot, and should not, be ignored. neither can we ignore the proven success and value of using pnr data in the prevention and prosecution of terrorism and of the most serious of crimes in many of our european countries. we should also ask ourselves what the alternative is – 27 bilateral agreements, no legal uniformity or clarity for air carriers, no rights of redress for our passengers? no, those are neither good nor acceptable alternatives to this house. members here who do not see this agreement as necessary must explain that to their electorates, but i and my group will be voting in favour in the knowledge that, at the end of the day, whilst it may not be perfect, this agreement is an integral and vital tool in the fight to ensure safety and security for all european citizens. our citizens have a right to be able to travel safely. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, concern for protecting our citizens against acts of terror is something we share with our partners across the atlantic. clearly, we must work together in this endeavour, but we must do so on the basis of mutual respect. i would like to put a question to mr kirkhope. with all his experience in this area, does he believe that, if we were to ask the united states lawmakers to vote against their own laws and the principles on which those laws are based, and to assist us in such a way, they would agree to do so?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i love hypothetical debates, particularly while we are discussing something which is of such importance. i can say with some certainty that, although i am not american, i do know a lot of legislators in the united states – as does sir graham – and i am pretty confident that the united states legislators would decide to do whatever was necessary to protect not only their own citizens but the other citizens of the free world with whom they have dealings. that is my experience of the united states. it may be not everybody’s but that is where i believe they would put their priorities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i have no intention of answering the second question as i think that it is a matter for another occasion, and no doubt miss in ’t veld and i can have a private talk about that. as far as lawyers and opinions are concerned, i – as a lawyer – am used to giving opinions. i am not always certain that my opinion as an individual lawyer will be followed any more than i believe that any particular set of lawyers has got some kind of monopoly on correctness and appropriateness. my view is that the commission’s lawyers are the main lawyers that we should be looking at in this particular context, because it is the commission – as guardian of the treaties – that has to actually enforce matters on behalf of us all in relation to the international agreements that we conclude. so my view is that the commission’s legal opinion was the main opinion that we should have relied on – and which i do rely on – and whether other opinions would be as important is a matter for the context.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we see increasing moves by governments to limit our personal freedom and privacy, citing the need to protect us from the threat of terrorism and organised crime. however, we have to be extremely cautious in allowing our freedoms to be removed, because once they are gone it is very hard to restore them. we also have to ask if we have any particular reason to trust our governments. legislation intruding into the citizen’s right to privacy should be proportionate, limited and controlled. once it is enacted we need to be sure that its scope cannot be widened at the whim of government. this kind of legislation should never have been proposed by the commission in the first place. it probably comes under the jurisdiction of international law. it should be devised under international agreements by sovereign nation states. the legislation is also unacceptable because it is one-way traffic between europe and the usa. we have to give them our citizens’ personal information, but they do not have to supply theirs. the motion for a resolution wants the final decision to be referred to the european court of justice to rule on its legality and compatibility with the eu treaties. the uk independence party’s meps will vote against this legislation. we will not vote in favour of the motion as we do not accept the legitimacy of the european court.
mr president, this has been a most enlightening debate. i think we have lost the plot here in that there seems to be – certainly from the rapporteur’s side – a lack of thought about ten years ago, when more than 3 000 people lost their lives in the united states of america. as someone who was the transport spokesman for my delegation at that time, i pushed for the adoption of security measures across european airports in order to improve security following that terrible terrorist attack. certainly from my point of view, i have views about my human rights and i would find it a breach of my human rights if my government did not take sufficient steps to ensure my security when i travelled both within and outside the united kingdom. sometimes they have to take steps which i may not be too happy about, but it is all about balance. i have to tell the rapporteur that, at 37 000 feet, the terrorists do not really give a toss about what we like or what we do not like, or what questions we want to ask or what we do not want to ask. i spent more than twenty years in the airline industry, and i was aware of terrorists from the 1970s as a young person. terrorists have no boundaries; they have no morals, and – most of the time – they have no justification for taking human life. they do not care. they want to make a statement. so all that i would say on this, if i may, is: what is pnr? it is really quite basic information. there is not much in addition to pnr. it is quite clear to me, mr president, that my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have negotiated strongly on this report in order to secure the interests of eu citizens and the protection of everyone, and i believe that the safeguards are in place. following 9/11, the use of pnr data has been a vital tool, not only in the usa but also in the uk in investigating the 7/7 bombings in london as well as in locating international criminals across the globe. i, along with my ecr colleagues, will urge this parliament to support this agreement and to accept that a strong deal has been negotiated which will support all british and european citizens and assist them when they are travelling across the globe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i do not believe that i cast a slur on the rapporteur. perhaps the rapporteur is suffering from what is called ‘tall poppy syndrome’ and believes she is now the world expert on terrorism. that is what i believe. i attended a meeting in the united kingdom which was arranged by mr kirkhope with officials from the home office. it is not as though all the colleagues on her committee were not prepared to give her as much information as possible and to assist in this report, but 10 years down the line, rapporteur, some of the comments that you have come out with this morning i just find totally naïve. you are living on a different planet sometimes. you think you have a monopoly on human rights. of course you do not. do you think the rest of the people in this chamber do not believe that it is very important that our human rights and our information is not kept securely? of course we do. we are not stupid. we do not need lecturing from people like you, but what we also know is that our governments and politicians have to make tough decisions sometimes and it is not always easy. i think this is the best deal we could have achieved. it was very seriously negotiated and the commission, i believe, will follow through very well on this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i take ms morvai’s comments on board. airlines traditionally and historically have collected information from all of us when we book a ticket; they have done so for decades. the information they gather now is little different to what they gathered before 9/11. ms morvai is quite right: how much information is too much information? the problem is that terrorism does not stop at borders; it is international. so we as citizens are obliged sometimes to give, with a heavy heart, information that we perhaps do not particularly want to give. it is sometimes difficult for governments and politicians to say that it is actually in all of our interests to do so. i do not think there is a one-line straightforward answer on that. it is a result of the cumulative effect of terrorist attacks that have gone on over decades. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i will be very brief. the answer is yes.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to provide a brief response to the comments made. it was said that all citizens object to this; i would say that most citizens do not know anything about it. what the citizens of the european union want is to ensure that their governments take responsibility when they as citizens move around their countries – and they expect to be able to move around europe and the world freely. they expect governments to take responsibility for their security; and governments have to take difficult decisions. i knock on many doors when i am canvassing, as i am sure you do, and you may have done so in the run-up to the forthcoming french elections. i speak to citizens and nobody knows what pnr is and nobody is interested. they just expect politicians to keep them safe.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would just say to the last speaker: if you want to quote me, then quote me accurately. you know perfectly well that that was not what i said in terms of the citizens’ understanding of what pnr was. so if you want to use a cheap shot, let us use it outside the chamber, shall we? if that is the best you can do for a political argument, you should not be sitting where you are sitting.
madam president, i just wanted commissioner malmström to know not only how much the alde group appreciates her work, but also that it has persuaded a significant part of the alde group to vote in favour of the agreement. in particular i find the declaration that she has offered very valuable. her pledges to be really on the ball about the review and monitoring mechanisms in the agreement, particularly the scope and purpose limitation under article 4, are of particular relevance. she is aware of parliament’s concern – which i share – about articles 4(2)(3)(3) and 4(2)(3)(4). she knows we will be on her tail. i trust that she will be vigilant and will report back to us in the way that she has promised on the occasion of the first joint review and subsequent reviews. i appreciate what she has done, and she has persuaded me and others to vote in favour.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we all agree that human trafficking is an abhorrent crime which grossly violates the human rights of its victims. this is a modern form of slavery, the incidence of which across europe continues to grow at an alarming pace. in my own region of northern ireland there is a huge problem with human trafficking. criminal gangs use the province as a gateway to traffic people into the mainland united kingdom, as well as retaining some victims for local illegal activities. the police service of northern ireland, the psni, is engaged in a comprehensive battle against human trafficking, which focuses both on rescuing victims and catching perpetrators. however, the first person who was convicted on a charge of human trafficking in northern ireland was only sentenced a few weeks ago. this shows that we still have a long way to go. i welcome the commissioner’s statements here today. it is important that this issue is not brushed under the carpet. it should remain very much at the top of the agenda in the fight against crime, and i believe the most important tool for fighting this crime is tougher sentencing of the perpetrators of human trafficking.
madam president, europe will soon be in the football spotlight, and uefa should be commended for launching campaigns to tackle racism in the game. however, i believe that it is not doing enough to raise awareness of human trafficking. this vile trade will be fuelled in poland and ukraine. the commissioner has already told me she is concerned about trafficking for sexual exploitation at events such as football championships. uefa suggests large football events are irrelevant when it comes to trafficking, but it wishes to remain vigilant. i am not convinced. mega-brothels opened in host cities in the 2006 world cup in germany, and already strip clubs are opening near the football stadiums in kiev. where there is a spike in the demand for sex workers there will also be a spike in the demand for the number of women trafficked. it is vital that uefa makes a strong stand to clamp down on the potential for trafficking at its big tournaments. this summer is a massive year for sport in europe, and millions of people will enjoy the games. we must all make sure that such great events are not tarnished by trafficking.
madam president, whilst trafficking in human beings can be for many purposes, the dominant form is of women and girls for sexual exploitation. when this subject was discussed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs about two years ago, i asked the representative from europol whether any population groups were prominent among the traffickers and the trafficked. he answered without any qualification: the answer to both questions is the roma. we need to examine the significance of that answer. of course, criminal sexual exploitation of girls does not always involve crossing international frontiers. the grooming of under-age girls for prostitution by asian men in the united kingdom was first brought to public attention by our chairman. the authorities responded by prosecuting him for alleged incitement. it was only when he was acquitted that the authorities were forced to start prosecuting those responsible for the grooming. international human trafficking is hindered by border checks. (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, minister, i have met young women who have come to western europe with the aim of working in a restaurant or as an au pair, and who instead find themselves working in brothels selling sex up to fifteen times a day. i have met small children, very young children, who are forced to beg on the streets of brussels, paris, stockholm and vienna. all these people are examples of the modern slavery that exists today in europe: a very profitable form of organised crime and unworthy of europe today. for the sake of all those people and many others, we must fight this crime. the directive we have been referring to is a very good tool. the commission will make sure that it does everything to support the member states in fully transposing and implementing it. you asked a question on the directive on residence permits. it is clear that not all member states are making full use of it. we are right now studying the causes of this before taking further action, and the input and ideas of the european parliament here are most welcome. the upcoming strategy intends to move on from where we are with the directive: to take a broad, consistent and coherent approach on prevention, protection and prosecution. we want to focus on training, raising awareness and providing information to key groups. we want to focus very much on the desperately-needed coordination that so many of you mentioned. we want to streamline our work on human trafficking and launch studies on, for example, demand and the root causes of trafficking in human beings. this will be a strategy for the coming five years; the aim is that it will be concrete, practical and measurable. it will be adopted later this spring or summer and presented to you as soon as possible. i am looking forward to discussing this with you, and again i want to thank you for a very good debate and for your strong commitment to this very important cause.
president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a cruel situation that we are witnessing in the case of human trafficking. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to assure you that the council will work for the follow-up to the directive and that we will do everything in our power to combat the terrible phenomenon of trafficking in human beings. it is good that we agree that there must be a coordinated approach to combating trafficking in human beings, both at eu level and in the rest of the international community. i think that is why we should look forward to the strategy on combating trafficking in human beings which the commission is expected to present shortly, and also to the fact that we have good cooperation with parliament and can look forward to new initiatives in the fight against trafficking in human beings from here as well. thank you for a very good debate which has emphasized that trafficking in human beings is a monstrous phenomenon which we must step up our efforts to combat.
in writing. – human trafficking is a form of modern day slavery. not only is it a serious crime, it is also a serious violation of a person’s fundamental human rights. the reality is that the exploitation of human beings is happening in our streets, towns and cities throughout europe. organised crime gangs are making huge profits by trafficking people into my own constituency of northern ireland for labour and sexual exploitation. an organisation that campaigns for ethnic minorities has recently stated that ‘northern ireland has the fastest growing sex industry in any part of the uk’, with victims originating from ghana, zimbabwe, china and slovakia. this statement, coupled with the fact that the first conviction for human trafficking violations in northern ireland took place only in february of this year, highlights the urgent need to tackle this problem head on and, in doing so, help some of the most vulnerable in society. these victims are being sentenced to a life of misery and exploitation. we need to send a strong and clear message that human beings are not commodities that can be bought and sold for profit.
mr president, we are all aware that the current financial crisis has had an adverse impact on the macroeconomic stability of many member states and has thus made it difficult to access finance. whilst i understand that this lack of readily-available finance is making it difficult for many projects under the cohesion policy to continue, it can be argued that having this additional instrument alone, as proposed in the report, may not be entirely effective in addressing this difficulty. although this instrument does address the immediate problem of making funds available for investment, it does not tackle the underlying issue of why some projects are not as successful as they should be. the issue of how the project is being implemented has been entirely overlooked, and solely addressing the financial issues that member states face will not guarantee the success of the projects. a clear vision, a clear programme for implementation, and specific measurable outcomes which generate economic returns for the member state in question need to be ensured, as well as full accountability and transparency on risk-sharing. without these assurances i cannot support this report.
mr president, from the moment that the euro crisis struck, the leaders of the eu have been asking the wrong question. they have asked themselves, ‘how do we save the euro?’ rather than ‘how do we rescue the people who have to use the euro?’ it is now obvious that the single currency is a recessionary mechanism. by sustaining it in the way that they are, the leaders of the eu and in the palaces and chancelleries of the member states are inflicting preventable poverty on the peoples of the eurozone. this is obvious, not least in your country, mr president, one which, as you know, i admire very deeply. there are many opportunities available to spain in a clean default, a decoupling and a reissuing of a more competitive currency. but that debate is not even being contemplated, because people begin from the proposition that the euro is an end in itself, an absolute imperative. a result of this is that, i am afraid to say, the leaders of the eu are now consciously working against the recovery because they know that, although spain might begin to take off the day it left the single currency, their own credibility would not recover.
mr president, i would like to lodge this explanation of vote on behalf of the british conservative delegation in the european parliament. greece and those countries subject to the efsm are not going to face an easy task exiting from the crisis. naturally we would wish to support measures which would have a meaningful and long-term impact in terms of increasing the competitiveness of their economies through targeted structural reforms to sclerotic labour markets. this proposal, whilst well meaning, does not address the underlining economic and financial difficulties in these countries and could possibly make the situation worse. in this period of austerity, taxpayers’ money must be well spent and we must seek to contribute to the employment and growth which will drive the eu out of crisis. yet this top-down proposal has received only a lukewarm reception in those very member states it seeks to support. moreover, it is openly doubted whether some of the proposed projects to benefit from this scheme would pass the necessary eib due diligence requirements before the risk-sharing instruments could be created. whilst the proposal now contains a budgetary ceiling, it is still of great concern that public money will be used as the first loss in case of the failure of any other projects planned. this continues. i will lodge the rest of it in writing.
mr president, i abstained on this report on risk-sharing instruments for those member states suffering financial difficulty. while i believe that the text of the report has been improved following negotiations between parliament and the council, i still do not believe that the proposal is in any way viable. the only member state so far to express any desire in making use of a potential risk-sharing facility is greece. while i would back the use of targeted investments under the eu cohesion policy in order to help those states that are in financial difficulty, greece’s record – sadly – in implementing cohesion policy projects is particularly poor. anyway, my view is that the structural funds need a complete review and, in many ways, repatriating. i would not, therefore, be convinced that investments under such a policy would have any immediate short-term effect on economic growth or employment, particularly in distressed states like greece.
mr president, this is a contentious area and it goes right to the heart of the public debate on preserving the freedoms of individuals, or groups of individuals, while maintaining the security of both individuals and wider society. it is, as ever, a question of balance. i was happy to support this measure this time round because i believe that the actions and agreements on the passenger name records data as agreed are now proportionate and reasonable. there has been significant improvement since the 2011 proposal, including in the areas of data protection, data retention, deadlines and redress. i will always jealously guard the liberties of my constituents whilst balancing the wider security benefits of measures such as this.
mr president, the sharing of passenger name record data has become a controversial issue, as we are hearing today. however, i have decided to support this report, since i feel that the recommendations made are necessary and entirely proportionate. the agreement between the us and the eu on the transfer of passenger name records has undergone significant improvement through negotiations, particularly in relation to increasing protection and to the retention period of passenger data, which has been one of the main concerns for my constituents back home in wales. it is also worth noting that this sharing of data has already proven to be instrumental in providing vital information on a number of criminal activities, including illegal drug trafficking, and in assisting in the capture of those responsible for the atrocious 7/7 london bombings in my own member state. as long as there are adequate safeguards on protecting personal information, it is a justified and worthwhile agreement that should be supported by all.
mr president, since the attacks on 9/11 we have seen a barrage of dangerous, disproportionate and declamatory legislation: measures designed not to be proportionate with the need to address the threat but rather to be proportionate with the imagined level of public concern; measures designed in order to signal what very serious people the legislators are; or, indeed, measures designed simply to agglomerate more powers at eu level. this particular measure is a very rare example of where specific criticisms have been addressed and where a lot of the problems that provoked my group to vote against the first draft of this bill have now been looked at and improved. it is now a much more proportionate measure. a number of the concerns we had about privacy and data retention have been dealt with. it is therefore very sad to see a number of people in this house who are normally the first to demand measures of this kind opposing it, i have to say, simply because it involves the united states. ask yourself: if this were a proposal to share data with switzerland, would there have been any row about it at all?
mr president, as political representatives, what greater duty have we than to do our utmost to ensure the safety of our constituents? faced with the terrorist threat across europe and the us, which remains dangerously high, i believe that we must give careful consideration to any measure deemed helpful in assisting in that daily battle to protect the lives of our constituents from those who seek to inflict murder and mayhem. the exchange of passenger name records is but a tool in this fight. therefore, while we weigh up concerns around data protection and privacy, we must balance that against the benefit to global security and the fight against international crime. it is my view that the benefits of this agreement outweigh the concerns and, while improvements can and should be made, it represents progress. i am content to support it on this basis.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the transfer of passenger name records data to the us department of homeland security. i believe that the agreement is a proportionate measure and is a necessary one for us security. various safeguards have been secured so that the processing of pnr data can only happen if they are used for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and transnational crime. the agreement is particularly pertinent to me as an mep for london, as pnr data were used in the capture of the 7/7 london bombers, following the attacks on my city in 2005. there are several other examples of their successful use, not only in terrorist cases but also in the capture of other serious criminals caught whilst trying to leave the united kingdom. for these reasons i would strongly oppose any arguments put forward by other groups claiming that the necessity of this agreement has not yet been proven. the usa is our indispensable ally in the fight against international terrorism.
mr president, this agreement has been a long time in the making. because of concerns regarding civil liberties and how passenger name record data are used, it is important that we get it right – and i believe we have got it right. we must carefully balance the interest of individual privacy with the need for collective security. we must not forget that pnr data helped identify associates of the 2005 london bombers. pnr helped bring to justice those who plotted in the 2008 mumbai attacks. pnr led to a number of arrests – some murderers, paedophiles and rapists – and it helps keep drugs out of europe. clear and strict rules have been prepared on how pnr is handled. it can only be used in the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crimes. with these safeguards in place, i am pleased to be able to vote for this report.
mr president, i firmly believe that tax policy is a matter for member states and should not be regulated at eu level. yet this proposal from the commission, in its original form, took an approach that would have been optional for companies and perhaps might have made it easy for companies to operate across the single market. it could, furthermore, have been adjusted by the council to ensure that it did not step on their sovereign rights. however, this parliament has gone from this original optional mechanism to the extreme of arguing for a mandatory tax that would end up covering all member states and all companies, except for their smes. this report is a prime example of why i am glad that this parliament does not have codecision powers over taxation, and that – rightly – any new proposals require a unanimous decision by the council in order to be enacted. taxation is a fundamental power of each sovereign member state and should remain so.
mr president, tax harmonisation is really a euphemism for higher tax. i mean, hands up anybody who thinks that tax harmonisation means that it is going to be harmonised downwards. tax harmonisation removes the external competition which is the usual curb on a government wanting to raise more money. it is bizarre that this becomes our solution to every problem. we are in the mess we are in because the government was spending too much and we will not get out of this mess by raising even more money, transferring even more resources from the private sector into the public. of course, the reality is that the reason we want tax harmonisation is because the eu wants to give itself a dedicated revenue stream so that it does not need to come cap in hand and beg from the member states. behind all this talk about spending money at brussels level (so you do not have to spend it at national level) is the need to keep fuelling the bureaucracy that has grown up at the top of the eu. that of course is what is going to choke the system; it is going to bring us down as it has brought down every over-centralised and over-taxed imperium in the past. generations from now, when archaeologists are looking for the last documents from our era, i suspect that the most recent one they are going to find is some tax demand from some brussels official.
mr president, once again this commission is straying out of its remit. this is the first attempt by the eu to enter into the realms of corporate taxation. this report is being sold as a positive step towards the single market and as enhancing competitiveness. in reality, this report oversteps the mark and impinges on member states’ sovereignty. the uk government has opposed this report from the very beginning. i stand by my government and i, too, am here standing against this report today.
mr president, i voted against this measure to give a clear and visible signal that i do not support the mandatory introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base. i do not agree with the view that it is a vital measure to complete the single market. if companies operating cross-border between member states wish to consolidate their results and follow a common formula, that should not be excluded, but i do not support the proposal, as agreed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), to set out a roadmap making this mandatory after five years. yet again, those elected by the citizens of europe and given the privilege of the responsibility to lead us out of the mess we are in into recovery and growth are leading us down a blind alley of political dogma and harmonisation. it will get us nowhere. it is unnecessary regulation and will not help to increase business or gdp in europe.
mr president, as we see, the guise for this proposal is to lay down the rules for the cancellation of the tax base for corporates. it is supposed to be concerned with the calculation of taxation, not necessarily the rates, but this is clearly an infringement of member states’ rights in taxation policy and also the start of a slippery slope to stopping tax competition. first of all you harmonise the calculation base and then you start to harmonise the tax itself under the guise of a single market and getting rid of this unnecessary tax competition that we have heard about so many times. but what are we doing during this crisis, at a time when countries want to attract foreign investment and create jobs? why are we using measures such as this to harmonise taxation and start on the slippery slope, when we should be focusing on measures that create jobs and growth?
mr president, i have raised this issue in the past. if you read the wording of the rule, it is not at all clear that it means that. it could equally well mean before the actual ‘explanation of votes’ item comes up within the sitting rather than at the beginning of the entire sitting. the previous time this rule was interpreted by one of your colleagues, he offered to refer it to the legal service for a definitive interpretation of the parliament’s rules of procedure. you interpret it this way, but you could equally well interpret it another, more generous way. so could we have clear guidance on what the rule actually means? it makes no sense in my view if it is just restricted to those who apply before the entire sitting begins. it should be at any stage before that actual explanation of vote comes up for debate.
mr president, i have voted against this report on the taxation of energy products and electricity as i do not support a number of the proposals that it makes. these include the introduction of proportionality and the removal of exemptions for certain sectors, which member states were previously able to introduce at their discretion. the latter include agricultural fluids, known in the uk as red diesel, and the principle that all calculations on this should be based on energy consumption and co2 emissions. i believe that is actually not correct. taxation needs to remain an issue solely for member states. at a time when businesses and farmers across the eu are struggling to make ends meet, i think that it is wholly unjustifiable to impose additional new requirements on them to meet emission targets. the proposals in the report would require the measures to be implemented too quickly and would be burdensome upon my businesses and farmers in wales. whilst i support the eu’s endeavours to reduce emissions, i do not believe that taxation of energy products and electricity is the right way to achieve this. it would perhaps be more prudent to encourage businesses to invest in modernising technology in order to make it more effective and efficient.
mr president, immediately before the vote today a friend in the epp challenged me to say something positive about the economy in europe. he said he was sick and tired of my explanations of vote always focusing on what we were doing wrong. so let me have a go. there are a number of positive ways that you can jolt economies into growth. you can cut tax, you can deregulate, you can – paradoxically – make it easier to fire people so that you encourage employers to hire people in the knowledge that they will not be lumbered with employees in the hard times. one thing that always boosts economic growth, in every country and in every age, is cheaper energy. it worked in the industrial revolution, it worked in the oil boom. it always causes factory prices to fall; it causes an export boom and it causes people to be able to buy things – with less energy put into it, if you like. that is why it would be crazy for us, at a time like this, when we are struggling to grow our economies, to burden ourselves with fuel taxes which will depreciate the one thing which is always, literally and figuratively, the fuel of growth. here is the good news: here is the upbeat ending. just as the us has now started to nose out of its decline because of this massive increase in shale gas deposits, so we have the same opportunities in europe. we have 120 years of gas supplies under the soil and seas of the united kingdom alone. energy crisis? what energy crisis?
mr president, i recognise that climate change is a serious issue, but i often worry that those who want to save the world are actually living on a different planet. in the middle of an economic crisis, families are feeling the pinch. does the eu really want to tax citizens further just for driving their children to school or for turning on the heating? i am glad this house recognised what is going on in the real world, and that it understands how ordinary families are struggling to make ends meet. the eu needs to be reminded that it should focus on economic growth and on making citizens’ lives easier, not more difficult during a downturn. i voted against this report. my group, the ecr, voted against this report, and i am pleased that most of the house followed my group and voted against it.
mr president, i voted against this report on a number of grounds. not a day goes by when i do not hear from a constituent who is unhappy with the increases in their energy bills. they are very unhappy to find themselves paying to subsidise renewables without any real public debate: no acceptance of the concept or the financial hardship behind it. i do, however, believe that it is time for a fundamental review of taxation on energy products and particularly electricity: not a review which says the eu should take more interest but one that would end up with the view that we should take far less interest from here. this particular report ranges across a number of areas too numerous to talk about here, but i would just like to mention one: harmonised car purchase tax and harmonised co2 emission taxes. how will this help change behaviour and reduce energy consumption? each member state has its own personality and traditions and, if we are serious about making progress here, member states’ flexibility must be retained and taxation left firmly in their own bailiwick.
mr president, in my view, member states should have the right to set their own fuel vat and co2 taxation levels, as long as these are compliant with the unanimously-agreed eu legislation already in place, such as the rules on minimum vat levels. taxation is clearly a sovereign matter for each member state, and efforts to transfer this power to the eu as a community competence contravene the eu treaties and will both hamper the competitive free market and play into the hands of increasing numbers of critics who claim that the eu is determined to build a federal superstate without acquiring first any consent from the people of the member states. some members of this house are keen to harmonise and raise taxes at member state and eu level, but they often seem to forget the fact that they are actually very keen on spending other people’s hard-earned money.
mr president, inside this chamber, the last report, this report, and the next report are all talking about taxation under various guises of how we can raise taxation or harmonise it, whereas outside, in the real world, people are worried about rising costs and about job creation. they want more jobs to be created; they want people to get back to work. one of the most social things that europe and politicians could do across member states is create jobs for people. what do we do instead? we talk about taxation and about increasing taxation. we know that when you increase taxation on energy products, those costs are not only passed on to companies – which means they have less money to employ more people – but those companies then pass it on to consumers, who then find it more difficult to struggle with their weekly and monthly household bills. now is the time to take stock of where we are. giving money to governments, who spent it very badly in the first place and overtaxed us, caused the problems we are now facing. let us reduce the rates of taxation, allow jobs to be created and get citizens in european countries back to work.
mr president, as i have to give a radio interview at two o’clock, mrs swinburne has agreed that i can swap with her and speak first. is that alright? she is okay with this. thank you very much. i voted against the joint motion for a resolution put forward by the s&d group on concrete ways to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. there are many problems with this report, starting with the simple fact that taxation is primarily a member state prerogative. but i was particularly concerned by the identical treatment given to tax evasion and tax avoidance. the report calls for measures to be taken against both at eu level. not differentiating between the two seems nonsensical and smacks of the politics of envy, given that one is a wilful criminal breaking of the law and the other is perfectly legal. while i would agree that tax fraud and tax evasion should be curtailed, my group does not agree with the premise that tax avoidance within the law is detrimental to tax collection. another worrying aspect of the report is its consideration that the implementation of country-by-country reporting requirements for cross-border companies in all sectors is essential. i believe that such requirements will be too onerous a burden if applied to all eu companies in all sectors, as the report seems to propose. i would instead back a sector-specific approach, which is a far more reasonable way of doing things.
mr president, to remove any possible doubt, i fully support the motion title that we need to find pan-european ways of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. and indeed, i believe that we should find global ways of doing that. however, beyond the title, this report has addressed many issues which i believe are not helpful, including preventing member states from engaging in bilateral negotiations with non-eu countries on taxation matters, which presumably was aimed at addressing the recent uk-swiss agreement on bank accounts. it also suggests that tax competition is to be avoided as it stifles economic recovery in some countries, something i fundamentally disagree with. tax competition is healthy and should be encouraged. the report also suggests clamping down on tax havens but redefines them rather than using the globally-accepted oecd definition. i therefore could not support this report, despite being committed to tackling tax evasion and tax fraud globally.
mr president, we would of course be delighted to have mr kelly in our group, maybe not as a british conservative, but he is a great european and a great patriot and we would be very happy to have him alongside us in the ecr group. the way to maximise revenue from taxation is through lower, flatter and simpler tax rates. it is all very well to say, as some have in this chamber, that we need to find ways of getting these rich tax evaders to pay their share, but the ultimate forms of tax evasion – or rather tax avoidance – that they practice are emigration and early retirement. the sad truth is that the rich do not have enough money to do all the things that modern governments want. so when taxes on the rich are introduced, they very quickly become generalised through the population. it works every time. it worked when ronald reagan cut the top rates and it worked when margaret thatcher and nigel lawson did so. if you lower the rates of tax, you maximise the revenue and you also get the top decile in society to pay a much higher proportion. people say, ‘oh, that’s only because they’re earning more’. well yes, that is the idea – and they are thereby generating more revenue for the government to spend on things that the rest of us use. so yes, i agree: make the rich pay more. cut their rates.
mr president, thank you for catching me by surprise, and i thank mr kamiński for not being here to allow me to speak earlier. what is very interesting about this whole debate about tax – we have spent the last three reports talking about taxation – is that there are two different philosophies on taxation. if you are on the left, you believe that the government has first recourse to your money. you earn your money, but the government itself decides how much to give to you while it takes the money. if you are on the conservative right – as we are – you believe that individuals should be allowed to keep as much of their money as possible in their pocket, and that governments should really take only what is necessary for government and state services. but what do we see? in proposal after proposal, we see an increase and an attack on people who are trying to maximise the amount of their income that they can spend on their families and themselves. the other thing we see in this place is the attack on so-called tax havens. when countries set themselves up to be tax-neutral – not to double and triple tax in order to generate revenue and to attract foreign investment – immediately that is a tax haven and is condemned. and when developing countries do it, what do we do? we try to condemn them, to make sure that they go back to poverty so that they can rely on our aid rather than trying to create wealth through tax competition. what a skewed world we are living in here in the european parliament. it is time to ensure that tax competition is healthy in order to create jobs and attract investment.
mr president, there is a material difference. i have written confirmation of my request to speak from this morning on the system so i have followed the rules, but thank you for your patience and good humour. i would simply like to say that, like everybody else, i welcome the title of this, but when i looked at some of the detail i found myself unexpectedly unable to support it. there are many reasons; i would just mention a couple. firstly, why invent an eu definition of a tax haven when we have a perfectly adequate, well-used oecd definition already adopted by this parliament? it is almost really contemptuous of this house to try and reinvent that particular wheel and serves no purpose whatsoever. also i do not accept that all sectors need a complex cross-border reporting arrangement. there should be a proportionate approach which minimises all of the burdens on business. lastly, i would like to mention something which is very important for my member state. i cannot under any circumstances agree with the proposal that prohibits the uk government from entering into bilateral arrangements with non-eu countries which are to the clear benefit of the british taxpayer.
in writing. − i chose to abstain from this vote as, on principle, ensuring the import of legally felled timber products is vital both for environmental sustenance and the preservation of fair trade. however, i do not advocate eu legislation as the mechanism for these controls. it is also important to highlight that several third country negotiations with the eu in the past have been disadvantageous for the country concerned. with the propensity for corruption and liability of the timber trade to black-market negotiations, i am not confident that the eu will ensure a system that is both watertight and effective.
in writing. − i supported this report and welcome the vpa with the central african republic. the forestry sector accounts for 40% of the car's export revenue. it is clearly an important industry, and it is equally important that the eu only imports wood from a properly regulated sector.
in writing. − i welcome this voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) with the central african republic (car). along with establishing a partnership tool for improving management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the vpa can be expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, including by safeguarding income generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets. in future, tax revenues from industrial forest exploitation should increasingly also profit the local economy and communities in the car. while the vpa offers steps towards better forest governance and the agreement has met wide support, the challenges lie with effective implementation. the car is currently engaged with implementation activities, including the development of the legality verification, new legislation and the institutional framework, in parallel with the ratification process. the eu’s technical and financial support for implementation of the vpa will be crucial. furthermore, while forestry provides a significant share of the car’s export earnings, addressing legal verification of timber exports should go hand in hand with domestic market regulation.
in writing. − i chose to abstain from this vote as, on principle, insuring the import of legally felled timber products is vital both for environmental sustenance and the preservation of fair trade. however, i do not advocate eu legislation as the mechanism for these controls. it is also important to highlight that several third country negotiations with the eu in the past have been disadvantageous for the country concerned. with the propensity for corruption and liability of the timber trade to black-market negotiations, i am not confident that the eu will ensure a system that is both watertight and effective.
in writing. − i supported this report and welcome the vpa with liberia. however, i echo the rapporteur’s comments and reiterate that ethical logging will only take place if there is adequate enforcement.
in writing. − like the previous voluntary partnership agreements, the hope is that the one with liberia will help improve governance and law enforcement in the country’s forestry sector. along with establishing a partnership tool to enable liberia to halt illegal deforestation and forest degradation contributing to climate change, the vpa should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in european and other international markets, thereby also enabling it to contribute positively to liberia’s overall development and growth. the eu-liberia vpa is considered to have been developed in a transparent manner with, so far, the strongest participation, involving all key forest stakeholders. the various stakeholders will continue to be involved in the implementation and monitoring of the vpa and will thereby contribute to transparency, accountability and good governance in the sector. the challenges lie, however, with effective implementation and monitoring. in liberia, the agreement is in the implementation stage yet is proceeding slowly. for liberia, a critical point is capacity building, for which support from the eu and its member states is needed.
in writing. − i voted against the creation of a risk-sharing instrument to enable the full absorption of regional funds through private match funding, although it is not objectionable in its purposes. what concerns me is the fact that the commission has had to resort to the creation of such a facility to underwrite loans from the private sector due to the ongoing crisis in the eurozone. this is yet another example of the commission seeking to equip themselves with a legal tool to fight a particular battle, while the war still rages because the bigger issues are not being addressed. as a result the risk sharing instrument enables the commission to blindly pursue european ideals through regional funding that may or may not reflect the best interests of the member states concerned, while failing to address the endemic ideological problems that are the authors of the ongoing fiscal crisis.
in writing. − i was disappointed that my own group’s amendment encouraging renewable energy projects was not adopted. my own party is committed to supporting the development of such projects, and scotland stands to become a global leader in the renewables revolution.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal and note that the aim is to ensure the continuation of the implementation of the programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and cohesion fund (cf) in the context of economic recovery of the member states under financial assistance. i consider that some elements of the proposal should be clarified and amendments tabled aimed at clarifying the text, with the addition of a definition of a risk-sharing instrument (in line with the recent compromise proposal for a financial regulation text) together with a detailed description of the procedure to be applied in order to establish and implement a risk-sharing instrument based on the legal patterns of existing risk-sharing instruments in other union policies. furthermore, the rapporteur suggests inserting a new article 36a for better legal drafting purposes, as well as structuring the article in paragraphs and sub-paragraphs.
in writing. − i fully support these proposals to introduce risk-sharing instruments to help regional development projects to continue in member states that are under eu or imf assistance. it is vital that these instruments are used to encourage private investment in funded projects in order to generate employment and growth in struggling economies such as greece. european regional funding provides an important economic boost by contributing to projects that improve social and economic cohesion throughout the eu. in times of economic difficulty, some regions struggle to find match funding, and this is why these risk-sharing instruments will be vital in promoting potential private investment.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i believe the legislation on passenger name records requires a political and not a legal decision. therefore no value would have been gained by referring this matter to the ecj.
in writing. − i voted with my liberal group in rejecting this agreement as a matter of principle. while the commissioner and the rapporteur sophie in ’t veld worked extremely hard to secure a better agreement, it still fails to meet the minimum safeguards to citizens that we as representatives of european citizens must demand. particularly the agreement fails to offer sufficiently strict limitations on the use of data, disproportionate retention periods and inadequate judicial redress. i understand concerns some have expressed about having no agreement on the sharing of data attached to passenger name records with the united states. it is my opinion that no agreement would have been a better option than signing up to a bad agreement.
in writing. − whilst ukip is fully in favour of effective measures against terrorism, we do not believe that the blanket storage of passenger details for prolonged periods is an effective tool in the fight against terrorism. the commission has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this is the best means of providing intelligence on terrorists. the proposal’s infringement of individual civil liberties is entirely disproportionate to its intentions. there is no indication that any alternatives have been considered. the new agreement does not appear to greatly improve upon the 2007 agreement. there are insufficient or no measures to properly protect privacy. there are strong suspicions that this is being proposed because more effective methods have been rejected by reason of political correctness.
in writing. − this house has today failed the citizens of europe in supporting this agreement. real legal and ethical concerns remain, and our citizens’ privacy and civil liberties are compromised.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. apart from the widely-stated civil liberties concerns surrounding these proposals, i am also concerned that we appear to be prepared to negotiate terms with the us that are less onerous that those we insist on with other third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the pnr agreement with the usa, even though i recognise that this agreement is far from perfect. however, we have to recognise that the deal before us today is better by far than not only the previous agreement that was rejected by this parliament, but the present agreement that is in force. to reject the agreement would leave us with the status quo, which everybody accepts is a poor agreement. such action would also weaken our oversight on pnr, which surely would be questioned by our constituents, leaving us open to the accusation of dereliction of our duty. whether we like it or not, pnr is an essential tool in fighting terrorism. i believe this agreement is the best deal we are going to get, which is why i support it.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the principal advantages of introducing the ccctb: greater fiscal transparency, which will make the tax system more equitable and efficient; reduced enforcement costs and red tape, which will improve the prospects for growth of businesses with cross-border operations, make the european union more attractive to foreign investors and promote the accessibility of the internal market for smes and for businesses which are not yet operating across borders; the expectation that allocation decisions on the internal market will be taken more in the light of social and economic considerations of a tax-neutral nature than they are at present; a reduction in two types of tax problems: tax evasion and fraud on the one hand and double taxation on the other.
in writing. − the ecr concurs with the commission’s view that directive on ccctb laying down common rules for the calculation of the tax base applicable to companies operating in the european union should be optional. we therefore disagree with the call for a mandatory ccctb expressed in the report of the european parliament. moreover, unlike the commission, we consider that this system should not be mandatory for all eu27 states but rather should be open to those member states that would decide to opt in. for these reasons we consider that, while it is important to aim at the completion of the single market through means that, among other things, reduce the administrative burden for companies operating in the eu, it is equally essential to preserve the freedom to run a business in accordance with existing national laws and practices in order to ensure healthy competition between companies. any attempt, overt or hidden, to put in place an initial step leading towards harmonisation of corporate taxation in the eu is thus to be opposed on both legal and economic grounds. the subsidiarity principle must be fully respected in the area of direct taxation where the lisbon treaty does not enshrine an exclusive eu competence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which sets a logical approach to energy taxation and brings us closer in some respects to green taxation. i gave particular support to the proportionality principle which unfortunately was not carried. this principle, by removing subsidies for certain fuels via tax advantages, by sending correct price signals to consumers, and by being technology-neutral, could have provided a level playing field to new technologies and facilitated their market penetration. however, i did not support amendment 25 which includes biomass or made-of-biomass fuels in the directive. it is indeed absolutely not practical and almost impossible to be accurate in measuring biomass energy in terms of its contribution to the co2 balance and its energy content per quantitative unit, because of the own specificities of this energy. i will try to address this when the directive is discussed in council by working closely with the uk energy and climate change minister.
in writing. − i voted against this as i am opposed to the increasing punitive measures taken against individuals and companies who have no choice but to use non-renewable energy. prices are already artificially high, meaning europe struggles to compete with other countries on low cost manufacturing and logistics, with the extra cost passed down to the consumer, while the cost of living also soars. i am against any eu initiative which seeks to gain fiscal reward from green taxation. there is no evidence that revenue collected is used to combat climate change – which in itself is debatable as to whether it is a man-made problem – and as a result creates a politicised stealth tax on living and working costs. it is estimated that the introduction of the tax will secure eur 20 billion as of 2020. this would lead to a rise in the price of diesel in most member states, which would also affect consumer prices, with inflation a possible outcome. considering the ongoing struggles in the eurozone and the competitiveness of rising superpowers such as china and india, the eur 20 billion would be better spent boosting rather than penalising european manufacturing.
in writing. − i voted the same way as my political group on this resolution, but for very different reasons. i do not support the harmonisation of taxation at eu level and believe that revenue-raising should remain a competence of sovereign member states.
in writing. − i could not vote for this report because it did not give enough guarantees on exemptions for households and charities.
in writing. − taking into account the already tight financial situation which european companies in all sectors of the union’s economy are having to cope with as a result of the global financial crisis and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, the ecr group does not consider the timing is right for a copernican-type revolution with respect to the structure of energy taxation and would rather see a more modest review of the existing directive on energy taxation adopted in 2003. moreover, we consider it crucial for both the council and parliament to request an independent impact assessment of the commission’s proposal for the future energy taxation that is to be based on two components – co2 emissions and the energy content of products – before any changes to the current regime are implemented. we have persistent doubts about the economic sustainability of the commission’s proposal.
in writing. − although i sympathise with the aim of this report to reduce co2 emissions and create a better environment, i was unfortunately unable to give my full backing to this report. it was impossible to support the phasing out of the exemption on household fuels by 2025. this measure will hit the poorest the hardest. the wording of this report does not sufficiently address the problems of fuel poverty, which is faced by millions of people, and i feel that this is not an appropriate measure to take in the current economic climate. furthermore, i could not support the proposal for fiscal neutrality for fuel, which would result in a huge hike in diesel prices at home. however, there were positive aspects of this report – for example the proposal to ensure that co2 taxation will not apply to those industries that are already subject to the ets – and i believe that this exemption is vital for industry across the uk.
in writing. − while tax fraud and tax evasion are serious topics, the collection and regulation of revenue collection is the final preserve of a sovereign state. more often than not tax evasion occurs through third country accounts, such as those based in switzerland and the cayman islands, and it is up to individual member states to choose how they wish to control and penalise evasion and fraud through the exchange of information which has become a global standard undermining bank secrecy. it is not up to the eu as a supranational body to interfere in such fiscal matters.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which ‘welcomes the conclusions of the european council meeting of 1 and 2 march calling on member states, where appropriate, to review their tax systems with the aim of making them more effective and efficient, removing unjustified exemptions, broadening the tax base, shifting taxes away from labour, improving the efficiency of tax collection and tackling tax evasion, to rapidly intensify the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, including in relation to third countries, and to report by june 2012’.
blue-card question. – madam president, why should the british public, or the french public for that matter, have any faith in a court which has judges from countries like russia (witness the khodorkovsky case) who are clearly not independent, and countries like ukraine (witness the tymoshenko case), where the judiciary is clearly not independent? some of these judges have no judicial training – they are political appointees. why should these foreign, unelected and unaccountable judges be able to decide on matters of our own national security and our criminal justice system in the united kingdom? i am afraid there is no confidence in the integrity of this court. it needs to be reformed and its powers need to be reined in. i am very sorry, but that is the feeling of most of my constituents.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am proud that the united kingdom was one of the founding members of the european convention of human rights. this was designed to protect fundamental human rights – the right to life, the right not to be tortured and the right to a fair trial. the convention has noble aims and my group supports them, but we do not support the conduct of the european court of human rights. far too often the court departs from its role of upholding fundamental rights and interferes with how democratic governments govern themselves. the recent decision to prevent the uk deporting abu qatada is one example. the demand of the court that prisoners be given the right to vote is another. such judicial activism brings the court into disrepute. it must be reformed, with most cases dealt with at national level and national courts given a greater margin of appreciation for making decisions. my group is committed to protecting human rights, but we do not believe that the eu should sign the convention. given that every member state is already a signatory to the convention, what benefit is there in the eu signing as well? it seems to me that the chief beneficiary is the eu itself, which gets to use its new legal identity granted by the treaty of lisbon. this is an opportunity for the eu to strut on the world stage and make very little difference to human rights – and what difference it does make will be negative. we will have two courts adjudicating within the eu, introducing competing jurisdictions which will only complicate matters. it also raises the issue of the eu itself having a role in any future reform of the court of human rights. involving the eu is a recipe for ensuring that no further reforms ever take place. i would urge colleagues here, and in westminster, to think again before granting the eu more influence that we will live to regret. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, i wonder if mr fox would recall that the accession of the union to the echr is a formal provision of the treaty of lisbon? the clause does not permit any discretion in this issue. it says that the union shall accede to the echr. does he now wish to put the union, and especially the united kingdom, in breach of the treaty of lisbon?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i would remind mr duff that the treaty of lisbon was ratified without a referendum in the united kingdom – as was promised by the prime minister gordon brown – and therefore my position is that we should seek to amend the treaty so that this obligation no longer exists. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, my colleague mr fox alluded to the fact that there are already 27 signatories to the convention and that this would just be a pruning exercise – or rather a preening exercise – by the european union. would he not agree with me that this is a further stage of federalisation and that in the 2010 conservative manifesto it was stated that it would repeal the human rights act, which was brought in by the labour party? now, if this was actually signed, it would mean that they would not have the power to do so. is this not another massive transference of sovereignty that his party will allow to happen?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i am fully aware of the commitment given in the conservative party manifesto. regrettably we did not win the general election. we are part of a coalition and this is a policy of the coalition government of which the european conservatives and the british conservatives do not approve. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, painful as it is to have family disagreements in public, will mr fox recognise that in the briefing distributed yesterday to uk meps it was said that the uk government – and of course that is led by your prime minister mr cameron – is fully committed to eu accession to the european convention on human rights? the benefits of such accession are that it will close the gap in human rights protection in the eu, as applicants will for the first time be able to bring a complaint before the strasbourg court directly against the eu for alleged violation of convention rights (which you should applaud), enable the eu to defend itself directly before the strasbourg court, create legal certainty, and so on. so are you telling us that you refute the view of a conservative-led government?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i did not distribute any briefing yesterday. that was the briefing of the british permanent representative; they do not speak for me and they do not speak for my group – they speak for the coalition government. we are a conservative party and we have a different policy on this issue which we believe is far more in tune with the british people.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, last year i wrote to david cameron urging him to oppose the eu’s accession to the european convention on human rights. the coalition government replied that they were obligated to accede to it and that in any case it would not change the existing situation regarding the uk. eu accession to the echr is required under article 6(2) of the lisbon treaty. mr cameron could have given the decision to the british people by honouring his promise, indeed his cast-iron guarantee, of a referendum on the lisbon treaty. he reneged on that promise after the labour government had ratified the treaty. but treaties are ratified by acts of parliament, and any act can be repealed. if he had wanted to, he could have repealed the ratification act and then submitted lisbon to a referendum of the people. instead he betrayed his promise and his guarantee turned out to be worthless. now the government tells us not to worry anyway, because it makes no difference. but this is not true either. britain could not opt out of or reform the convention even if it wanted to, because we are bound by the lisbon treaty. as usual the tories betrayed britain. now they are in denial about the consequences of that betrayal. they had a solution and they did not use it. now the only solution is the one advocated by the uk independence party, which is for britain to leave the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i have never advocated that britain should leave the united nations, which is a properly-constituted international body. it has always been my view, and it has been the policy of my party, that britain should leave the european convention on human rights and that we should repeal the human rights act 1998. so i think i and my party have been entirely consistent in that.
madam president, as a mep i deal with constituency issues on a daily basis: issues where eu law affects people’s daily lives, either directly or indirectly. i am here to tell you that there is one deeply flawed law that, above all others, damages british life and puts our lives in daily peril. it is the human rights act. it is a rotten law that britain loathes. human rights are worth protecting, and i am vocal in the protection of human rights. the human rights act, however, was created in britain by the labour party, which, despite warnings, was reckless as to the consequences. however, this eu-backed – and soon to be enshrined – law is now routinely and regularly abused by those who can cause havoc in civil society. terrorists, criminals and illegal immigrants, with and without cats. more often than not, judges who apply human rights law decide that those rights trump those of the majority: decent, honest, hard-working british people. the case of abu qatada is attracting media attention. the human rights law, by allowing abu qatada to dodge deportation to jordan, has inflamed the british public. simply, the court of human rights leaves britain unable to defend its interests. in a recent survey, 75% of british people said they think that the act should be scrapped altogether. it is the lisbon treaty that allows the eu to sign up to the echr, which further imprisons the british public, who never got a chance to say no through a referendum. let me tell you, the british public are shouting aloud: ‘no to the human rights law! release us from these shackles’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, would ms sinclaire take a correction? sadly the british labour party did not invent human rights. they introduced the human rights act, which gave the british public the right for british courts to intervene in these matters. would she agree with me that, if the uk took her line and withdrew from the european union, the rest of europe would breathe a sigh of relief?
blue-card answer. – madam president, not as big a sigh of relief as the british public would! yes, mr cashman, i agree with you. the convention on human rights was actually written by british lawyers in the early 1950s. it was the labour party that signed the human rights act, which enshrined it in british law. that was in 1998. what it actually did was to empower every court, from the most minute up to the supreme court (no longer the house of lords), to apply these human rights, and the judges have taken political jurisprudence. they have not gone along with the public or the elected government. that has to be wrong. in a democracy it should be the will of the people that reigns supreme. if you talk about human rights, mr cashman, i want to point out one labour politician, our high representative catherine ashton – a labour party card-carrying member – who refused to do anything about the corrective rape of lesbians in palestine. that is a disgrace.
madam president, the union’s accession to the echr was the quid pro quo for the decision to make the charter of fundamental rights binding. it now falls on all 27 member states to bring that agreement to a successful conclusion – not least britain, which used to be the pioneer and the advocate of fundamental rights but unfortunately now seems to be suffering from acute withdrawal symptoms. the british are specifically demanding unanimity for council decisions concerning the echr post-accession. this distorts the logic of the treaty of lisbon and weakens the role of the commission in representing the union inside the committee of ministers. could i remind the presidency of the council that this parliament must also grant its consent to the final agreement? i can assure you from the alde group that if we are not entirely satisfied that the internal rules follow the logic of lisbon, it is extremely improbable that we will be inclined to grant our consent. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, would mr duff accept that the treaty of lisbon was objected to by the conservative party in opposition? we inherited it in a coalition government with your party, mr duff. we do not particularly like a lot of its content and therefore politics is the art of the possible. if we can find ways of obstructing certain dislikeable bits of it, why can we not do that? it is perfectly obvious that there are other parts of the treaties which other countries do not implement when they feel it is in their national interest. i think of the euro for instance. sweden is obliged to join the euro; it has never done so. it has always maintained its right to stay out politically even though not juridically. surely, as a british citizen, you would respect the right of the british prime minister to use all legal instruments available within the council to delay the day for as long as possible, given the fact that the european court of human rights is deeply unpopular now in the united kingdom?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i cannot speak on behalf of the conservative party, but i am astonished that such a party – the party of winston churchill – now seeks to block binding the union to the provisions of the european convention of strasbourg. that seems to me to be completely flying in the face of conservative party history and indeed ideology. i would like to ask mr tannock and his colleagues: why are you so frightened of ukip that you are playing to the right-wing gallery?
madam president, i think that some of this debate is profoundly depressing when we are talking about how to keep the european union out of human rights provisions. this is about accession to the european convention, the european court, rights for all within the european union. it closes the gap which is there at the moment and which leaves eu legislation and actions outside the european court of human rights. so the purpose of the convention, the purpose of the court, is that it requires governments to meet certain standards – just as many of us want it to require the eu to meet certain standards and to call governments and other authorities to account. now there may be judgments from the european court that we do not like. there are some that i am not too happy about. but the whole point is that it is not a pick-and-mix. you do not simply take those judgments that you like and put them into practice, while with others you simply say: i did not like the judges who made that. if you do not like the judges, argue for the reform and training of the judges, and then when you are making those arguments, also remember that a lot of court findings are against countries such as russia and ukraine, the very places we have heard complaints about. this is about the rule of law, within a human rights context; about how governments and other authorities respond to being held to account. that is something i want to see brought in for the european union, not left outside. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – you talk about pick-and-mix. do you accept the european court of human rights offers no defence for british citizens being carted off by means of the european arrest warrant to the very harsh judicial and prison systems of the former communist states in eastern europe? do you accept that the european court of human rights offers no defence to that at all?
blue-card answer. – maybe this would be an argument for actually having the european union within the european court of human rights framework? then you could actually bring those cases there, could you not?
madam president, i have already affirmed the full commitment of the uk conservative-liberal democrat coalition government to eu accession to the convention. i certainly speak for all liberal democrat ministers, parliamentarians and members. i think i have sufficiently refuted the suggestion by british labour mep richard howitt, whom i see in his place, in a debate two days ago that libdems were somehow apologists for tory hostility to the strasbourg convention and court. but before i leave the intra-british debate, for which i apologise to other colleagues, i must remind labour meps that their former justice secretary jack straw utterly failed to stand up for human rights, and once called the human rights act a ‘villain’s charter’ in remarkably similar terms to ms sinclaire, whom mr cashman rightly criticised. i also want to express complete british libdem support for strengthening the european court of human rights. the brighton conference currently taking place – and i share renate weber’s dismay at the lack of transparency – must enhance the ability of the court to issue robust and authoritative judgments. but the court does need streamlining and relieving of its huge backlog. national courts must do the heavy lifting of implementation of the convention, and that is why the convention needs to be incorporated and remain incorporated in domestic law, as in the uk human rights act. the strasbourg court must not be a routine court of appeal, but an effective and respected watchdog for 47 states and the eu. i hope and trust that will be the result of the brighton conference tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – we come from completely opposite views on this and i do not think we are ever going to agree, but i have come across a curious anomaly which i would like your view on. the european convention on human rights has been used by people like abu hamza and terrorist suspects to prevent their extradition to countries like america on the basis that their human rights might be abused. but i have sat in courts dealing with european arrest warrant cases, and one in particular where the european convention was invoked because it was almost certain that, in being extradited to greece, suspects would be held in the korydallos prison, where it was 100% guaranteed that their human rights were going to be violated. but the government prosecutor put the point that since greece was a signatory of the convention on human rights it could not be deemed to be in breach of it. the appeal court agreed and the suspects were extradited. is it not odd that foreign countries are covered by the european convention on human rights but it does not seem to apply in european countries and does not offer the protection that we would give to people being extradited to the usa?
blue-card answer. – madam president, the human rights convention does apply to the european arrest warrant and it is implicit in it, but it is explicit in the uk implementation of the european arrest warrant. wearing my other hat, which i used to be able to do in the british parliament, helped secure an amendment to the 2003 extradition act, which requires the judge, before agreeing to extradition under the european arrest warrant, to decide whether someone’s convention rights would be breached. i do not know why that has never succeeded in a uk court but i was there to make sure that this law applies and i will go on insisting that human rights apply to internal eu extradition. by the way, the strasbourg court did not prevent the extradition of abu hamza to the united states. we can disagree on whether that was the right decision but in fact they did say he would get a fair trial, even if he would be subject to harsh conditions after conviction. the difference there would be after conviction, not pre-trial.
madam president, first of all i must congratulate baroness ludford for making it very clear in her speech that the liberal democrats and the conservatives are fully committed to signing up to the european convention on human rights. indeed, the liberal democrats even want to enhance it, as the gracious lady said. so the conclusion is very clear: if britain wants to get out of the european convention of human rights, which i think we should, there is only one way and that is for the british people to vote and support ukip. now what is this european court of human rights? well, members of this house are rightly exercised about ukraine, where the former leader of the opposition has been put in jail for seven years on what appear to be trumped-up charges and has even come to court again. the european court of human rights has a judge on it representing ukraine. it is a completely mickey-mouse, erratic court which does not belong anywhere in the british legal system and that is why we utterly reject it and those parties who support it.
madam president, looking at the gallery, i think that they must have wondered what kind of circus they had stumbled into. the european union is based solely on absolute fundamental universal human rights. yes, the court needs reform – nobody argues with that – but the way to reform it is by being engaged with it. in order to have coherence between national law and eu law, it is vital that the eu accedes to the european convention on human rights. and of course, judges never deliver judgments which please politicians all of the time, and that is good. because they are there to give a voice to people who are often trampled underfoot. i want you to imagine that there are citizens living in one country of the european union who are not allowed to serve in the military, who do not have a right to a family life, who have no succession of housing when their partner dies, whose very sexuality is criminalised, for whom there is not an equal age of consent, nor equal treatment. their only recourse – those citizens living in the united kingdom, those lesbians and gay men and bisexuals – was to the european court of human rights, and because of their judgments, they were afforded – eventually – universality and respect for their human rights. now if a government does not agree with the judgments, it also has the opportunity to derogate from the judgment, for it to go back to the national parliament. that is exactly what happened when the judgment was given that the ban on prisoners being forbidden the right to vote was in contravention. the uk parliament merely had to note that and continue with what it was doing. but you know what? the world is a better place if somewhere like the european court of human rights makes the lives of politicians more difficult.
madam president, two days ago the british liberal democrat party said that the uk was not obstructing the eu from ratifying the eu convention on human rights and persuaded their party to vote against censuring david cameron in the report i authored. since then, a conservative press release has been issued saying that ‘prime minister cameron is absolutely right to block the eu accession’. we have also heard the official tories’ so-called spokesperson on human rights state in this debate that they are obstructing, and a conservative mp from the south-west has stated that the party did not endorse the position statement produced by its own foreign office officials. apologies should be made. liberal democrats should apologise for their vote and admit the truth, conservatives should apologise to their own civil servants, and i do apologise. i apologise to the council for my country’s shameful breaking of its treaty obligations, and to all those who fought in the second world war to create freedoms for our continent, freedoms which their children seem prepared to diminish.
madam president, first of all, to mr howitt, i actually believed what he said in his initial draft report. if that is incorrect, his facts are wrong. i have no inside knowledge of what my prime minister, or any other minister of the conservative party-led coalition, does in the council. to return to the subject, as we speak it is true that ken clark, our uk justice secretary, is indeed trying to convince 46 other ministerial colleagues in the council of europe to reform the intrusive powers of the european court of human rights which, in my view, now seems far too often to champion the phoney human rights of the criminal or terrorist rather than protect the victims. this court is deeply unpopular and, in my view, brings the whole of the european union into disrepute because, in the eyes of the daily mail readership, the european court of human rights and the council of europe are one and the same thing. i have no faith in the judges of the court, some of whom, as political appointees, have no judicial training. presumably the russian judge, who was politically appointed, takes his instructions from the kremlin. of course my party defends fundamental civil and political rights for all of our citizens, but the accession of the eu to the convention and to the court of human rights will result in competing jurisdictions between the european court of justice and the strasbourg court of human rights, cause extra costs and give extra powers to unelected and unaccountable judges. so i, like most conservative meps, support the view that we should be doing everything we can to prevent this happening.
madam president, both the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights provide that people have or should have freedom of expression. proclamations about freedom of expression are a bit like the word democratic in the title of a state: it appears most prominently in the titles of states in which it is suppressed most obviously. in several eu countries and signatories to the convention, people can be and are jailed for heretical opinions on academic subjects and for political opinions that are disapproved of by the political class. perhaps the worst example is in the country in which we are now: france. france only this year passed a law prescribing a description of the killing of armenians in 1915, backed up by criminal penalties. furthermore people have been prosecuted for the careless use of a word such as ‘debate’ to refer to a historical event. it really does not matter whether or not one dishonest document is judged by the standards of another dishonest document.
in writing. – the recent accession of the eu to the echr will mean that future negotiations of all member states to opt out of the convention could only be carried out by leaving the eu. the uk relationship with the echr has always been independent from our membership to the eu. the debate in parliament was juxtaposed with negotiations at the brighton conference to reform the echr under the chairmanship of the uk. there is growing discontent that domestic sovereignty over controversial issues such as the deportation of known terrorists and the lawfulness of banning convicted criminals from voting is undermined by unelected judges in the echr who are not accountable to the public and override the british legal system with questionable judgments. eu accession to the echr would result in a tighter net forming around uk membership to the convention from which britain would struggle to be freed. it is essential that the eu and the echr remain entirely independent. however i fear the proposed accession of the eu to the echr is designed to pave the way for brussels to become the primary legal power in europe in association with the european courts of human rights.
author. − madam president, i would like to thank carlos coelho for initiating this important debate. it is obviously very important to make travel documents more secure and we have been working on that for a decade both in the eu and of course in the us and other countries. however, as technology advances, so does the ease with which criminals can exploit weaknesses in our system. most of my work on biometric identifiers has been done in the area of visas, but i have always expressed the concern that it would be a false illusion to put too much trust in biometrics as if somehow once they are captured and used we can have 100% faith. as has been said by others, they are only as good as not only the technology but the competence of the officials running the system and indeed the cooperation of individual applicants. i think it is a fair question to ask where we are at. in negotiating the visa code in 2009, in which i was involved, parliament successfully required that we should not fingerprint children under 12 due to the unreliability of such fingerprints. obviously assessments will be done in the future on that. earlier this year sophia in 't veld and i asked the commission to comment on the dutch study that is mentioned in the question which shows that in many cases the fingerprints taken were non-verifiable and therefore useless. the commission responded that no major problems had been reported and drew our attention to a jrc study, due out in may, on the reliability of information stored on chips in electronic passports. the problem with this is that it has been done on the basis of voluntary information supplied by member states, so i think that we need a study which is more comprehensive on failure rates. according to the visa code the commission should present a report in june this year including an evaluation of the collection of data and documents used for creating biometric passports. we are not just concerned about passports. we are also concerned about visas and fingerprinting practices across the range of travel and identity documents. unlike the commission, the us government accountability office (gao) has in a 2010 report expressed concerns about weaknesses in the evidence-gathering chain and admitted that the us system continues to be vulnerable to fraud. if this is true of the americans then i fear it could well be true in the eu.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is indeed a very important debate. we are talking about document security, we are talking about fundamental rights, we are talking about the efficiency of different kinds of travel documents and biometrics. in a way it is a bit unfortunate that we are having this debate today because in june i would be able to give you the answers to all the questions you have put to me. we will then have the reports and i will be happy to share the results with you; i am looking forward to having a renewed discussion when we have all this documentation. on the question of false documents, we are of course aware of this problem. we have no confirmation of the figures that have been circulating here. i think they are wildly exaggerated, but of course it is a problem and we are in close contact with europol and frontex on this. as i said, right now we are conducting a study on identity theft in general, where this is an issue. when the regulation on biometric passports was adopted there was no evaluation clause in it, so the commission has not been asked to do a general evaluation of the usefulness and effectiveness of biometrics. however, if this is a very strong wish from the european parliament, we would of course consider that issue seriously. so thank you very much for the debate. i think we will get back to it very soon, when hopefully i can bring some more concrete results to the debate here.
author. − mr president, the less-favoured areas scheme is of vital importance, certainly to my region in northern ireland. currently 70% of agricultural land in the region is designated as a less-favoured area. the payments received by farmers who are covered by this scheme are vital to their livelihoods, especially as many are only part-time farmers. we should therefore approach adopting this scheme – and changing the criteria for limiting the scheme – with the utmost caution. forecasts suggest that, under the current proposals, a substantial amount of currently eligible land in the united kingdom as a whole will lose lfa status. this figure is thought to translate into a loss of up to 30% of current lfa land. i am concerned that, while some areas may lose out, it seems in fact that more productive land could well be included under this new scheme. these are areas which may not necessarily require this type of support; this demonstrates that, quite possibly, the commission failed to carry out an adequate impact assessment of the consequences of this proposed notification. i wish to see a level playing field for all member states. this requires the recognition of all types of natural constraints, and of the fact that they are equally damaging to agricultural production. i would like to take this opportunity to point out, for example, that rainfall – as experienced where i come from – can be as detrimental to agricultural activity as the droughts which occur in other parts of europe. we have to overcome the obstacles and a one-size-fits-all approach will not suit on this occasion. in order to safeguard the effectiveness of the lfa scheme, i wish to see a broad and flexible approach. i believe that the current scheme has worked very well, and i do not wish to see it in any way jeopardised. in conclusion, i am beginning to wonder who exactly is driving the cap and the reform. is it the commission or is it the court of auditors? it seems that the court has criticised the commission’s every move, even, this week, regarding the reform package. if this specific reform of the lfa scheme proposed by the commission is simply a reaction to criticism from the court of auditors which claims these payments are not justified, it is totally scandalous.
author. − mr president, in scotland some 85% of farmland is currently designated as lfa, so it was with some trepidation that we awaited the outcome of the first new mapping exercise using the new biophysical criteria. under the original map, there were significant areas of scotland that would have dropped out under the new designation, but thankfully that has been rectified – to a certain degree – by the commission’s inclusion of excess soil moisture, i.e. the amount of rainfall that actually falls on land, being included. that has helped to iron out some of the anomalies revealed in the original mapping exercise in scotland, although there are still some serious problems with regard to the amount of good land that has been brought in, especially on the east coast of scotland, and i think that most independent analysts would recognise that this was not genuinely less-favoured or disadvantaged. at least in the united kingdom we have had a clear idea of how the new criteria impact on uk farmers and on scottish farmers, as the maps showing the changes have been published by both the uk and scottish governments on a regular basis and consulted upon. however, in many other countries – as other members have said – they are keeping the impact of these changes a secret and are refusing to give the commission permission to release the information to the european parliament. how can we decide whether the new lfa criteria set out in the cap reform are appropriate and meet the criticisms of the eu court of auditors, when key information such as this is being deliberately withheld from members of the committee on agriculture and rural development? i would say to the council here today that this is a matter of principle, and – as co-legislators – parliament must have the same access to the same information as both the commission and the council. the countries concerned must come clean and reveal this information to us as soon as possible if the legislation is to make any progress through this parliament. i would ask colleagues to support this call for all information relating to cap reform to be shared with parliament on an equal basis with the commission and the council.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would say this to the minister: as a proud scot speaking to a fellow social democratic, ecological, northern european nation, i really want to be constructive and friendly towards you, but i am afraid i am embarrassed on your behalf that you are having to defend a situation that is entirely inexcusable. it is a remarkable situation for us as the legislature to find ourselves in, and you as president to be defending. less-favoured-area status is of crucial importance to vast swathes of european territory. in scotland, as we have heard, 85% of our territory is less-favoured area, and for our farmers lfa reform is actually more relevant and more important than cap reform in its totality. so this is crucial; this is not a subsidiary issue, it is absolutely relevant to how we manage our environment and how we produce food across vast swathes of european territory. in scotland we have done our modelling and our mapping. we lose precisely 622 square km under the new criteria; we gain, according to the farmers’ union, 5 536 square kilometres, so we are proceeding on the basis of knowledge, facts, transparency and openness and all the things that the scottish and danish governments want to see. the idea that in this chamber we are operating blind as to the implications of these new criteria for vast swathes of our territory is simply inexcusable and is not a basis on which we can proceed, so i too would back calls from colleagues for this information, the importance of which we identified in the dorfmann report. we cannot proceed without this information and i will not proceed without it. so we must have this information now.
mr president, as many people have said in this debate, lfa is important. it is important to northern ireland. we have already heard that 70% of land in northern ireland is currently within the scheme. we had hoped that this debate would bring clarity, but this is certainly not the case and like others, minister, i am embarrassed that you have come to this house with such flimsy information. as co-legislators in the cap process, i would have to say that this is simply not good enough. farmers in northern ireland need to know the effect that this scheme and the new criteria will have. it is my understanding that land currently designated as disadvantaged will be excluded. in northern ireland we also want to be reassured that we will have regional flexibility on the administrative unit to be used in the designation of the new boundaries in this land. we also, i think, need to re-evaluate the start date for this scheme. currently this is 2014, with payments on a degressive basis until such time as the areas of natural constraint scheme is completed. we need to look at all these aspects.
mr president, i speak today on behalf of the many farmers in the south-west of england who currently struggle to make any kind of a living out of agriculture on exmoor, dartmoor, bodmin moor and in other less-favoured areas. supporting active farming in these areas delivers a wide range of benefits, not least of which is the sustainable management of the landscape resulting in amenity enjoyment for hundreds of thousands of people. the whole process of negotiating the new common agricultural policy is a sword of damocles hanging over farmers. it creates uncertainty and makes sound business planning – something we want to encourage – extremely difficult. it is therefore completely unacceptable to compound this uncertainty by allowing member states to fail to fulfil their obligations in the policy of less-favoured areas. yes, farmers in areas like mine see a glimmer of hope in the inclusion of the concept of field capacity days, etc., but they will be appalled at the attitude being shown here. if you want to retain any credibility at all – maybe you are too far away from the farmers, but i know because i hear it all the time – please, to use the vernacular, get your finger out, provide the information and let this institution do its job on behalf of its constituents, however much you might resent its power to do so.
mr president, i want to express my concerns at the consequences of some of the commission’s proposals to reclassify less-favoured areas. in the united kingdom these areas are some of the most beautiful and biodiversity-rich parts of the country. but they are also areas which are most vulnerable, and indeed these are the areas where common agricultural policy support is a vital lifeline for the livelihoods of the people living and working there. as ever, detail and implementation will be critical. i urge the commission therefore to consider three points. the first is that they adopt a 50% uaa threshold as a standard qualification; secondly, that they use the smallest size of administrative unit in order to reflect more accurately the area’s agricultural potential; and, finally, that they show a degree of flexibility in the way that natural handicaps and biophysical criteria are measured in order to classify the area.
mr president, with all due respect to the authors of this particular question, when i read this i thought that it symbolised everything which frustrates me about the european institutions. we have a habit in this house and in these institutions of turning ourselves inside out on the minutiae of a debate, and this question is a good example of that. we all believe that locally-produced food is good. i buy local vegetables from my local farm shop. i buy meat from my local butcher, who actually lists in his shop where the local farms are where he buys his animals for slaughter. i see no need for the european institutions to get involved in the minutiae of this debate. i think that we can do this very well for ourselves. of course we also have some idea of locality with the pgis, and northern ireland has recently had some very good results in designating some of its very good products: comber potatoes, lough neagh eels and armagh bramley apples. what we should not allow this debate on local produce to do is to lead us into a situation where we have food nationalism and trade barriers, and that is the most important issue.
mr president, consumers are increasingly interested in where their food comes from and how it is produced, especially with regard to issues such as country of origin, animal welfare and the environmental impact of food production. in reaction to this there is a growing trend for the commission to legislate on labelling issues. i think the commission has a genuine desire to ensure that consumers are better informed. however, let me be very clear: legislation on issues such as country of origin labelling has resulted in some very unwelcome side effects. the text of this oral question mentions food nationalism, which i find to be a very appropriate phrase. unfortunately producers and other actors in the food industry in some member states have used this as an opportunity to develop schemes which are wholly protectionist. consumers should be aware that this practice does not benefit them as it excludes competition, possibly leading to higher prices. these actions have a particularly serious effect on the agricultural economy and the regions which border other member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i assure the commissioner that we in the united kingdom believe that it is important for europe to remain at the forefront of research into the next generation of energy provision. for that reason we strongly support the iter project. accordingly we are happy to support this deal which was reached with the council. we understand that it will provide an extra eur 350 million, and that is of course part of this amending budget. i have to declare an interest here, because the culham research laboratory near oxford is within my constituency. however, i would point out that, in assuring the future of this facility, we will be assuring the future of over 500 jobs for research workers. these are people who are delivering world-leading technology, and this is a technical expertise which frankly we cannot afford to lose. but i have to say a word of caution, commissioner. as always with such leading-edge technology, it is bedevilled with cost overruns and delayed delivery. with that in mind there are three points that i want to make. the first is that additional funding must be found from within the existing budgets, and i note that through this deal we shall not be calling on member states to provide any additional funding in 2012. this is exactly right, because governments and budgets are under severe restraint. that too must be the case in 2013. secondly, this is taxpayers’ money, so it is important that we instil a culture of financial discipline in the research community – but it is also important that within this house we impose responsible scrutiny on that industry. however, to do that, we have to be kept informed, and i urge you, commissioner, to supply us with the information on which we must make those judgements. finally, to facilitate the above, i think it is absolutely vital that iter comes within the next multiannual financial framework, not outside it. as carl haglund said earlier, we will need to see it ring-fenced, budgeted and accountable.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am not against fusion energy. however, when it comes to iter, the european commission should have learned from its mistakes. unfortunately this never happens. for example, the galileo project was estimated to cost eur 7 billion in the year 2000; by 2010 the estimated costs had tripled to eur 22 billion. the cost continues to climb even further with no real end in sight. the parallels are alarming. iter’s partners are saying they can only build a stripped-down version of the device by 2018, five years later than the date set in the original agreement. the first experiments intended to validate fusion for power will not take place until the end of 2025. construction costs are likely to double from the original 2006 estimate of eur 5 billion to eur 10 billion. the cost of iter’s operational phase – another eur 5 billion over 20 years – may also rise. as 90% of the project is directly managed by the participating states, we are unlikely ever to know what the final costs will be. taxpayers deserve to know the cost of iter as they are ultimately paying for it, yet this house continues to approve the financing of a project that has already cost over 50% more than the original estimates. the eu’s approach to public finance is catastrophic. on monday commissioner lewandowski told us that the 2011 payments budget was in surplus to the tune of eur 1.5 billion, yet a couple of months ago he told us it was short to the amount of eur 11 billion. which version is true? does he not know how much money he has in the bank at the end of each day? i know this and everybody knows this. iter, like galileo and the eu budget, is becoming an absurdity, but the taxpayers who are left to foot the bill for these projects are not laughing at all, i can assure you. we should scrap this project altogether.
in writing. – i believe that the eu should play a leading role in the fight against poverty; however, i fear that the eu has lost sight of the objectives of international development. i am particularly concerned about the emphasis placed on how quickly the eu spends its money. aid is not just about offloading millions of euros from the eu balance-sheet into the accounts of developing countries’ governments. while general and sectoral budget support may be efficient, we need to ask ourselves is it really effective? is money spent on the most vulnerable members of society? is the system of checks and balances sufficient to ensure that eu aid is reaching those who need it the most? eu assistance must be of actual value. delegations should focus on how many people they have helped rather than how many euros they have spent. the british public are generous and open-hearted and wish to help their fellow man. international development gets a bad press when money is wasted or, worse, misappropriated. in order to reassure taxpayers that their money is well spent, the eu needs to do less better and realise that aid is more about how you spend rather than how much you spend.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, a deal was reached at the climate change conference thanks to two women. it was direct talks between the eu climate action commissioner and india’s environment minister that paved the way for an agreement. the conference was chaired by an equally strong woman, south africa’s minister for international relations and cooperation, yet this report chooses to ignore the achievements of these women. it would reduce their success to a number, as it calls for 40% quotas for women on climate negotiation teams. i have many times explained to this house that quotas patronise women. nevertheless, the craze for quotas persists. we have seen demands for quotas in business and in politics, and now climate diplomacy is the target for quota enthusiasts. quotas distort equality. they also degrade women who have made it to the top because they are the best people for the job. climate change is a global challenge and we need global agreements to tackle it.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this report represents a heroic attempt to link two of this parliament’s main obsessions – women’s rights and climate change – but sadly it fails to achieve that objective. climate change gets blamed for many things, mostly without justification, but few people will believe that domestic violence against women is caused by climate change or that the low representation of women in government is caused by global warming. some will feel it is discriminatory that we do not have a report on men and climate change: after all, men and women live in the same climate, women and men switch on the same lights, televisions and computers, and both men and women inhale oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide. however, the report does make one valid point: that women are less able to respond and adapt in the face of changes such as global warming and its side effects. mr president, the biggest side effect of global warming is the huge economic damage that our climate mitigation policies are doing. high energy prices and excessive regulation are driving jobs, industries and investment out of the eu altogether to other jurisdictions, typically with lower environmental standards. sadly, it is probably the case that this will impact more seriously on women and on the poor than on the rest of us. the best thing we can do for women, for the poor of this world and for all mankind is to scrap our absurd and damaging climate policies.
mr president, it would be easy to mock this report. indeed, it is being laughed at by millions of british voters reading their papers this morning. coming at a time when the euro disaster is breaking nations and driving desperate people to suicide, this staggering exercise in politically-correct sloganising could – had it been on the agenda at the start of this month – easily have been mistaken for an april fool’s joke. but in truth, this attempt to institutionalise discrimination and contempt against half the population of europe is not a laughing matter. men and women are conceived to complement each other for the common good. this proposal is an attempt to sow discord between the sexes, break family values and export eu frankfurt school poison worldwide, using the excuse of climate change. such incitement to gender-based contempt, division and hate is not a victimless crime. hundreds of thousands of men are denied access to their children after bitter divorces. thousands of children are snatched by the state because the crucial importance of fathers and loving, united families is denied and undermined by militant feminism of the sort that underlies this report. meanwhile, there are real problems out there hurting real people. voters expect us at least to try to solve them, not to waste our time and their money on sexist anti-male, anti-family gibberish. ladies and gentlemen, please, let us drop this empty, bigoted sloganising and work together to deal with real problems.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − madam president, we have heard today about the silent crisis unfolding across europe. it is happening right under our noses. when the rivers run dry, the forests are too small to clean the air and the ecosystem supporting our agriculture collapses, we will wonder how we did not see it happening. right now too many people are choosing not to listen and not to see. nature is dying all around us, and as we bury our heads in the ever-less-fertile soil, it will continue. there will be 30% fewer species in existence when our grandchildren grow up. as with any other crisis, it is our job as legislators to stop the problems causing this silent massacre. i welcome this report from mr gerbrandy and i urge the commission to sit up and take note. we call on you to take action to protect our generation and the generations to come. we must not end up having to face our grandchildren and admit that we stood by and did nothing as the wonderful diversity of nature on this planet – ours and theirs – silently died around us.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we all agree that the protection and promotion of biodiversity is of vital importance and i welcome the vast majority of the recommendations in this report. i do, however, regret the fact that the report has become quite so wordy, detailed and, in many places, repetitive. i think there is a lost opportunity here – which was possibly seized in the original rapporteur’s report but lost later on – to produce a punchy, straight-to-the-point and clear document. having said that, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gerbrandy, for his conscientious efforts to find consensus, which is not so easy with so many amendments and so many opinions from other committees. i would like to mention one area specifically today, that of agriculture and cap. the report supports much of the detail of the commission’s cap reforms, and i would stress that i am talking about detail here. this is problematic for me and my group. we find it difficult to endorse these details in the report, as this presupposes a general agreement in this area which does not yet exist. the same point applies to statements in the report such as the call for a soil directive. regrettably, this means we cannot unreservedly support the report, despite our strong support for many other aspects such as the call for innovative financial instruments and the increased emphasis on the importance of the life programme.
madam president, diversity is an emotively favourable word and of course we are all in favour of it, but unfortunately we mean different things by it. i have a book on british wild animals from 1947 which welcomed the addition of the grey squirrel to british wildlife in the interests of diversity. i have some good news for the writer of the book and for the grey squirrel: it is to be found everywhere in britain now. for the red squirrel i have some less welcome news: your habitats have been taken and you will soon be extinct. now there are some people in britain who defend the grey squirrel, saying it was born and brought up in britain and would have a british passport if squirrels had passports – indeed it is not really a grey squirrel at all but simply a native red squirrel which happens to have grey fur. 1947 was only 65 years ago, yet the squirrel population has undergone such enormous changes, and the human population of britain has also changed enormously. this just shows that how the wrong kind of diversity can lead very quickly to the displacement of native populations.
mr president, europe undoubtedly faces challenges when it comes to education and employment in the future. it is worrying to learn that we are heading for a shortfall in highly-skilled workers needed to fill 35% of all jobs by 2020. it is right that we highlight these issues here. as ever, i support the sharing of ideas on education between member states and the mobility of students across europe. the erasmus programme provides a wonderful opportunity for young people. diversification between member states is important, but institutions can work together to help each other engage with outside bodies such as business. these are the kinds of ideas that help to make students become confident, employable adults. however, this report’s endorsement of the commission’s proposal for increasing the budget is unnecessary. we do not need to increase the budget to modernise our higher education systems. education is vitally important. it is an important area and i take a strong interest in it within the european parliament, but it remains a competence of the member states and i abstained on this report because of the endorsement that it makes.
mr president, i abstained on this report on modernising europe’s higher education system, which is of course vitally important. whilst i accept that there are many serious challenges facing the higher education system today in europe, in particular due to the current economic crisis, there were certain aspects of this report which worried me. with such a high level of youth unemployment across our union, and with the increased demand for new skills resulting from the rapid technological changes that we have seen over recent years, it is clear – in some ways at least – that modernising the higher education system may help it face these problems. i would therefore support the idea of introducing life-long learning programmes, for example, and increased european cooperation between educational institutions and businesses. the fact remains, however, that education provisions should ultimately be a member state responsibility. i could therefore not fully back this report, in view of its calls for increased public funding from member states at a time of widespread austerity and cuts.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on a competitive digital single market. i agree that there are many advantages to a competitive eu digital single market – both for smes and for our consumers – and i support the adoption of the european egovernment action plan, the interoperability strategy and the interoperability framework. the report notes that uptakes in the areas of e-procurement and e-invoicing have been disappointingly low, and i back the report in its calls for further action to be taken in support of these areas at eu and member state level. i also support the calls for more to be done to set up a system for the exchange of best practice, as i feel that this is an extremely good way of doing things and a cost-effective way, in particular, of improving performances across the european union.
mr president, i totally condemn the unilateral declaration of independence made by the tuareg rebels, who benefited for years from military and financial support from gaddafi’s libya, are connected to islamic militants in northern mali and are now taking advantage of the power vacuum left following the military coup that ousted president touré. these rebels must hand over control of the northern areas to the central political authorities in mali as has been demanded by the international community, which does not wish to see further bloodshed and chaos in this fragile country. we must also enforce sanctions against the leaders of the mnla – such as asset freezes and travel bans – in order to put across to them a strong message from the eu that their behaviour is unacceptable. i believe that the proposals put forward in this motion for a resolution will go some way to supporting mali’s territorial integrity and to building a democratic mali with the aid of new free and fair elections. for this reason i and my ecr group voted in favour of this resolution.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the commission’s devolution of external assistance to its eu delegations in third countries. the report concludes that aid delivery is more efficient under the more devolved system, with both the speed of the delivery and the thoroughness of financial procedures having seen some improvements. it does accept, however, that there is still room for further improvement from the old central system coming straight from brussels. i welcome the fact that the report notes that the european external action service itself has not yet provided the value added that was initially promised in terms of eu development assistance, in particular the coordination between the cfsp foreign policy dimension and the development policies and priorities, and i note the fact that the mandate of the external action service remains unclear. i back calls for the commission to continue all efforts to increase the transparency and accountability of the external action service, which should remain budget-neutral and subject to constant audit and scrutiny by this parliament in the hope that this, in turn, will lead to it being more effective and better value for money for the member states.
mr president, i am delighted to have supported my colleague mr gebrandy’s report on an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020. it is a balanced report and recognises that farmers and land managers have a key role to play in halting biodiversity loss across the eu. i also welcome the call for agricultural payments to be targeted at rewarding farmers for delivering public goods. the report also backs the greening of direct payments by targeting 30% of the payments at developing more sustainable agriculture, which i think is vital for future food production. however, the commission’s current greening measures need to be widened to better reflect the different circumstances in the member states. one size does not fit all. finally, i am pleased that parliament voted to reject the call for a european soil directive. this to me is a matter best dealt with by member states and not at european union level.
in writing. − i am in favour of fusion energy; however, having the eu involved is not the way to achieve it. i voted against the balzani report on the draft amending budget number 1 of 2012 because it contributes to the continuation of wasting large amounts of money for a huge, controversial project with a slipping deadline and escalating costs that may never achieve its aim. the iter agreement was signed in 2006 for a total of eur 10 billion. it is now already going to cost eur 15 billion and this figure will probably increase. there is little accountability to taxpayers.
in writing. − i voted for this draft amending budget no 1/2012, which follows the agreement reached between the three institutions on the financing of the eur 1 300 million (in commitment appropriations) additional cost of the iter project in 2012-2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft amending budget proposal. the proposal put forward by the commission manages to raise part of the funds necessary this year for the iter project without the need to ask member states for further contributions, meaning that this proposal is budget-neutral. i support the breakdown of the extra eur 1.3 billion needed for iter in 2012 and 2013 put forward. iter is a long term investment in not just european but global energy security and brings on board china and india as participants in trying to develop the long-term hope of controlled thermonuclear fusion using seawater based deuterium as an energy source. it is the same process as the sun and is 100% clean, but requires huge investment by the eu. we all hope and pray for a breakthrough in this key area of research. r&d spending is one area of eu spending which brings clear value added by pan-european cooperation and funding.
in writing. − in the section entitled ‘funding higher education systems’, this report stresses that higher education is a public good that fosters culture, diversity, democratic values and personal development. this lies at the heart of the scottish government’s policy of providing higher education without fees in line with scotland's democratic intellectual tradition.
in writing. − i voted for this report. in the present, difficult circumstances, our main goal in trying to modernise our higher education systems must be to stop them falling behind higher education elsewhere in the world. it is a sobering fact that only 200 of our 4 000 higher education institutions rank among the top 500 of the world, and of these, few are from central-eastern europe. european higher education must do better. more generally, improvements throughout higher education are necessary if we are to maintain, and perhaps even raise, europe's global competitiveness.
in writing. − europe’s higher education sector is fundamental to the social, economic and cultural well-being of member states. however, more must be done to ensure that universities have the funding and the opportunities to realise their full potential. the modernisation of higher education institutions, as outlined in this report, is essential in the current economic climate in order to ensure that students are fully equipped to deal with the changing labour market and are able to find employment after graduating. i fully support the measures proposed in this report as i believe that a coordinated eu-wide approach will create a successful education environment that is attractive to european students and staff and also to those from other parts of the world.
in writing. − this report rightly highlights the importance of e-procurement. eprocurement scotland is recognised as one of the most comprehensive and successful public sector egovernment initiatives in the world. the scottish government is committed to retaining that leading role, and i can endorse much of what this report says.
in writing. − i welcome this report. in 2010, the ec adopted the ‘eu 2020’ strategy with the aim of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and of improving economic governance. one of the seven flagship initiatives of europe’s growth strategy is ‘digital agenda for europe’, a strategy to take advantage of the potential offered by the rapid progress of digital technologies. egovernment is about using the tools and systems made possible by information and communication technologies (icts) to provide better public services to citizens and businesses. egovernment development is considered in most of the member states as being based, on the one hand, on office automation, the interconnectivity network between public administrations and, on the other hand, on the development of the right digital content and applications.
in writing. − i supported this resolution on mali in which parliament reiterates its serious concern over the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian and food crisis and calls on the commission and the member states to increase and speed up the delivery of humanitarian supplies to the populations in need; notes that the commission is giving an additional eur 9 million in response to the new humanitarian needs in northern mali; points out that urgent efforts are needed in order to open up the humanitarian space and allow food and medical supplies to reach northern mali; is concerned that, unless such measures are taken rapidly, a major humanitarian crisis may develop which could also have a negative impact on neighbouring countries.
in writing. − while i voted in support of the overall resolution on the situation in mali, i voted against the paragraph concerning a possible csdp mission to provide support to the malian army. csdp creates no additional military capabilities and is part of a political process to establish the eu as a state-like actor on the world stage. the eu therefore seeks to create a narrative of ‘csdp operations’, most of which are not military at all, or the continuation of french military operations under eu auspices, or a military operation best carried out by another organisation. at a time of cutbacks in defence expenditure and military capabilities in practically all european countries, we do not think it appropriate for the eu to duplicate capabilities which are already well established in nato and elsewhere.
in writing. − i am not entirely happy with this resolution, but pleased that it calls on the government of burma/myanmar to release all remaining political prisoners without delay or conditions, to allow free access for the icrc and international human rights bodies to myanmar’s prisons and also calls on the national human rights commission to intensify its work of promoting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens.
in writing. − i am, of course, strongly supportive of the process of democratic change that has been taking place in burma over the past year. however, as i do not support the creation of the eu's external action service - which i regard as a very deliberate effort gradually to erode the responsibilities of our national embassies in favour of ‘eu embassies’, with all that that implies - i am against the ‘decision to establish an eu diplomatic presence in burma’.
in writing. − i was very disappointed that amendment 8, which called for gsp preferences to be withdrawn from argentina, was passed. this strikes me as an overreaction to the nationalisation of respol and a provocative act.
in writing. − this report states that the commission and member states should not use the ongoing financial crisis to justify cuts in aid budgets. i fully endorse those sentiments.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament express its belief that the relevant eu financial instruments and the european development fund (edf) need to be more poverty-focused and more flexible with regard to their approach and operation, and that more accountability and transparency and better value for money in terms of achieving clear results should also be encouraged.
in writing. − mr president, it is fair to say that some of the proposals before this parliament never cease to amaze. not because of their genius, but sadly all too often because they are ludicrous. the report ‘women and climate change’ is one such example when you really cannot fail to be bemused. apparently, global warming adds to gender discrimination. apparently, a necessary step to address this is a 40 per cent female quota on eu negotiating teams on climate change. in addition, we must give funding to get women involved in the political battle to tackle climate change. the reality is that men and women are equally affected by climate change. the impact that it has on our lives has nothing to do with gender. furthermore, i find the suggestion that women should be granted positions because of gender, not ability, wholly offensive. what utter nonsense, mr president, and what a waste of our time when much more pressing matters should be addressed in this house.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which underlines that 70% of the world’s poorest are women, who carry out two-thirds of all work done but own less than 1 % of all goods; notes that they are denied equal access to and control over resources, technology, services, land rights, credit and insurance systems and decision-making powers and are thus disproportionately vulnerable to, and affected by, climate change and have fewer opportunities to adapt; underlines that 85 % of people who die as a result of climate-induced natural disasters are women, that 75 % of environmental refugees are women, and that women are also more likely to be the unseen victims of resource wars and violence resulting from climate change
in writing. − dear colleagues, the report on women and climate change undoubtedly highlights a number of important points with regard to roles played by women. for example, the use of women’s knowledge drawn from their everyday lives in order to find solutions to problems – such as the installation of toilet facilities in indian slums – is vital. the report also outlines the gender imbalance across the world, an example being the fact that 70% of the world's poorest are women, carrying out two-thirds of all work done. we know of these imbalances and must address them. yet despite these points, i have voted against the report as a whole. i do not agree that climate change widens the gender imbalance. as i have expressed before in this parliament, i am against the imposition of quotas from an eu level, particularly in terms of outside bodies. and finally, in the financial climate of today, it is important that we concentrate what limited funding we have on combating climate change itself, rather than on funding women's groups in the area of climate change when in fact there is no need to do so.
in writing. − the ecr group does not accept that climate change exacerbates gender discrimination. we believe that this report simplifies what is a complex issue by claiming that women have greater responsibility for the family by being caregivers. we believe that both women and men care about the welfare of their families to an equal extent. the ecr strongly opposes the suggestion that a solution to this problem is through the introduction of quotas for women working in the climate change field; the ecr group is consistent in its approach on targets and quotas and we strongly oppose targets being set – in any area – at eu level. for these reasons, we have chosen to vote against this report.
in writing. − mr president, this report has much to commend it. nevertheless, the stated belief that a centralised common fisheries policy can bring about improvements to marine biodiversity and increase our natural capital is wholly misguided. the failure of the cfp to achieve its objectives is widely recognised, and yet the wording of this report ignores that reality. i could not vote in favour of the final report for that reason.
in writing. − i fully support the underlying theme of this report, which is that a strict and rapid implementation of all environmental policy is crucial for biodiversity. climate change and the quality of air, soil and water all have a huge influence on biodiversity. the same is true of the natura 2000 network and the birds and habitats directives. for marine life, a cfp based on achieving at least maximum sustainable yield, accompanied by tougher enforcement measures, is a minimum requirement.
in writing. − while this report was passing through committee, the european and external affairs committee of the scottish parliament highlighted the 7th environment action programme as one of their priorities for the coming year. i look forward to working in this parliament and with colleagues in scotland in setting the new eap priorities.
in writing. − i welcome this report. a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are prerequisites for guaranteeing quality of life as well as preserving the stability of ecosystems. environment action programmes have guided the development of eu environment policy since the early seventies. they have been a powerful driver for the adoption of strong eu environment legislation, notably in areas such as air, water, waste and climate. protection of our environment increases quality of life, notably by safeguarding ecosystems and their services, halting the loss of biodiversity, ensuring better air quality, less noise, as well as by creating jobs and growth and by ensuring well-being for current and future generations. the current 6th environment action programme (6eap), which was the first one to be adopted by co-decision, will expire in july 2012. its final assessment, published on 31 august 2011, concluded that on balance, the 6th eap has provided an overarching framework for environment policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and substantially completed, and that its adoption by co-decision has increased its legitimacy and has helped create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals.
in writing. − the commission must come forward with an ambitious seventh framework action programme as soon as possible. i support calls to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020 and to set achievable targets in other areas, namely targets for renewable energy, emission reductions and energy efficiency. i support calls for the 7th eap to integrate environmental protection into other eu policy areas such as industry and agriculture. furthermore i support requests to better enforce eu waste legislation, and i call on the commission to come forward with more ambitious targets for recycling. finally, the report outlines the need for sustainability criteria for biomass and biofuels to ensure the sustainability of land use.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, schuman, monnet and spinelli all lived in a very different europe to the one of today. in their europe the continent had been ravaged by two world wars. in their europe the household challenge was putting food on the table. the global challenge became symbolised by a wall across berlin. their solutions were ever-closer union, the european social model and the common agricultural policy. in their day those policies helped to achieve some of their objectives. enlargement to the east brought freedom to a people previously cloaked by an iron curtain. but the world has moved on since the schuman declaration was made 62 years ago and sadly, in many areas, the eu has not. many of those 20th century solutions have now become a part of the 21st century problem. the eu is not only becoming irrelevant in the world, but also in the minds of many of our own people. i have one simple explanation for that. the people do not trust the eu because the eu does not trust the people. democracy, the rule of the people, is the greatest greek export in history and it is under threat. the euro, the fiscal compact, the impositions of the troika and endless eu legislation have stopped our electors from having the power to determine their own destinies. we cannot go on taking the people for granted. if we do, they will turn to ugly alternatives. sadly, communists and neo-nazis who want to place landmines on the greek border are now a major part of the greek parliament. ms le pen received a fifth of the vote in france. and yet what was the commission’s response to the first-round upset in france? more europe is needed, we were told by a spokesman. to me, nothing better sums up everything that is wrong with the eu than that reaction. we feel that we have all of the answers and the commission’s schuman day statement just backs up that assumption. but often our well-intentioned actions become part of the problem and lead to less personal or economic freedom for individuals. to paraphrase a famous quote of president reagan, the nine most terrifying words in the english language are, ‘i am from the eu and i am here to help’. i am a firm believer that small government works. when national governments have rolled back the frontiers of the state, they have found that their people and their economies thrive. the eu has become a big government. it is time to roll back its frontiers. many people have suggested that sunday’s election was a victory for pro-growth politicians replacing pro-austerity politicians. that is, of course, nonsense. everybody that i know – maybe apart from a few of the greens – actually wants growth. the battle is over means and not ends. sustainable growth requires profitably producing and selling more goods and services. getting the eu to borrow and spend even more money to create fake demand at a time when national debts are already spiralling out of control is not pro-growth. it is stupid, it is unsustainable and it will bring national bankruptcy a step closer for many states. my group is happy to offer an alternative vision for the future of the eu based on liberty, national democracy and proper entrepreneur-led growth. we believe that free trade is the best way to promote our products and our values across the globe. we believe that the eu budget should be better focused, smaller and reprioritised to 21st century challenges such as research. we believe that the single market should be the jewel in the crown of the eu, promoting deregulation and competition rather than red tape and harmonisation. seven years ago in this chamber, following the french and dutch rejections of the european constitution, one of the north-east constituents of stephen hughes and myself, prime minister tony blair, told this chamber that people are blowing the trumpets around the city walls. are we listening? i think we know the answer to the question that he posed, but the trumpets are sounding even louder now today than they were in 2005. we have to ask ourselves whether we are in fact listening to what the people have to say today, because the eu faces clear choices. we can continue to pass more legislation, we can have ten-year economic plans, or we can cut red tape and lift the burden on businesses. we can continue to believe that we know best or we can trust the people to know what is right. we can continue with the mantra of an ever-closer union or we can build an effective union that does less, but does it better. it is not too late to face reality, to trust the people and to embrace small government in brussels, but time is rapidly running out. unless we change course the world will keep turning and europe will fall further and further behind in the international competitive league table – and we will only have ourselves to blame.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, happy schuman day, or europe day as you now call it, although i thought the celebrations were rather muted. the only bit of real passion we had was mr schulz slagging off the english, but that now appears to be a sort of popular sport in this parliament. when people stand up and talk about the great success that the eu has been, i am not sure anybody saying it really believes it themselves anymore. i think we are celebrating the wrong day. we should not be celebrating 9 may; we should be celebrating 8 may: victory in europe day. we should celebrate the last time the germans tried to smash the continent and they foundered and at least half the continent got its democracy back. what we are celebrating on 9 may is another attempt, through different means, to smash democracy across europe. i do not doubt for a minute that jean monnet was well intentioned at the start; he thought that if you abolish nation states you would stop there ever being another war. he did not at the time, of course, have the benefit of seeing that theory as it played out in yugoslavia. but, like communism, this has all gone badly wrong and the eu titanic has now hit the iceberg. it is a european union of economic failure, of mass unemployment, of low growth but, worst of all, it is an eu with the economic prism of the euro and this now poses huge dangers to the continent. we face the prospect of mass civil unrest, possibly even revolution, in some countries that are being driven into total and utter desperation. but there is perhaps an opportunity; there is perhaps some good news. now a democratic rebellion has begun. it began in finland last year with the true finns getting nearly 20% of the vote and we are seeing in country after country new political movements on the right and on the left making big scores. but that may not be all good news because what we saw in greece last sunday was rather reminiscent of the german election of 1932. we saw the status quo centre collapse and the extremes of right and left rise. you know, this project could even cause the rebirth of national socialism in europe. we are headed the wrong way. we must break up the eurozone; we must set those mediterranean countries free; we must try to build a europe. i want a europe, but a europe based on trade, a europe based on cooperation, a europe based on us sitting round the table and agreeing sensible rules on crime and the environment. we can do all of those things but we cannot do them if we are asked to rally behind that flag. i owe no allegiance to that flag and nor do most of the people in europe either. (applause from the efd group)
mr president, yesterday morning i received a text message from my uk mobile phone company. it reads, ‘using the web in europe costs three pounds a meg’. as a result of this new rule the price will drop to 56 pence. excessive charging from roaming causes both consumers and operators to lose out. i know many consumers who just switch off their data roaming when they are travelling and do not access any services at all, meaning operators do not sell any services at all. whilst many consumers who do travel will like these new caps it would have been much better if the operators could have come to a voluntary agreement on charges, because there are risks that operators will pass on the costs of capping roaming to domestic customers through higher bills or that this will limit the funds that these operators have for investing in future infrastructure – and boy, do we need those investments to fill holes in our rural coverage and for deeper coverage in our cities.
madam president, in this time of austerity measures my constituents often ask, ‘what has the european union done for me?’ given that the european union spends most of its time generating red tape, i am pleased when the eu introduces something that makes citizens’ lives easier. bearing in mind the increase in cross-border people movement and the important role telecommunications play within everyday life, this directive makes sense. it has made it less expensive for mobile phone users to make phone calls abroad. the report will cap data-use costs abroad and allow consumers to choose their data provider. i welcome this report and believe the european union needs more initiatives such as this one. the eu needs to concentrate on making citizens’ lives easier. it must support the aims of the single market by promoting free movement of goods, services and people.
madam president, excessive roaming charges are something which both individuals and businesses have had to bear. we often talk about removing barriers in europe, and i therefore welcome the commission’s ongoing attempts to address this issue. the goal of fully eliminating roaming charges in the eu before 2015 is ambitious but is certainly one which i can support. in my constituency, citizens frequently travel across the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland, and they do not have to cross the border to have the extra charges imposed on them. this is a thing that makes many of the constituents on both sides of the border very angry, and one can understand why it does. the legislation will hopefully promote more competition in the roaming market, allowing consumers the choice of mobile operators, with roaming as a positive development, particularly in these challenging economic times, for businesses in particular to find a better deal, reduce their costs and seek new opportunities in other member states.
madam president, i very much thank the rapporteur. i think this is an excellent report. i am instinctively politically opposed to the setting of caps on prices (i am a traditional free marketeer), but i do recognise that, when we are in a position where that dogma will simply not suffice, we need to bring in the democratic will. as information on everything from bus timetables to important information on over-the-counter medicines more and more relies on you being able to point a mobile at it for the information rather than it being written, that is good for the environment – we are all for that – but if i am in a different country that should not be costing me a lot of money. it is my access to information, which i think is fast becoming seen as a right of citizens. i would like to set a challenge to the industry that we should not be here yet again in a couple of years’ time for another reiteration of this. they should get their act together, sort themselves out and accept that the party is over and it is time they provided citizens with a service at a reasonable price.
mr president, no decent human being can feel anything other than deep sympathy for young men who leave their families and risk death in overcrowded boats in order to reach a new land of milk and honey. but why do they do it? who is responsible for luring these poor people into so much disappointment and even danger? the politicians. because every time the political class insists on giving one batch of immigrants the houses, taxes and jobs that belong to the long-suffering natives in manchester or malmö or brussels or birmingham, you incite another boatload to risk their lives to get to the promised land and be given other peoples’ milk and honey. three simple rules would end the immigration crisis. one: no jobs for immigrants while our own people face mass unemployment. two: if a greedy boss is caught employing illegal labour, the business should be confiscated. three: if you have not paid in, you do not get a house or a penny in benefits.
mr president, this debate should perhaps not be about the wider points of migration, on which we could all talk in great detail, but should be about the detailed visit by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to lampedusa. here i want to associate myself with the comments of mrs borsellino and mrs wikström, in the sense that there were some political changes in italy but there are still some unanswered questions as to exactly where we are going with lampedusa. i would like our group to support the request that the italian authorities designate lampedusa a safe harbour for migrants. there is still plenty of suffering going on and we must ensure that this debate is about the collective response, ensuring that that tragedy is minimised, that all the resources are being used to minimise that suffering, and that we have a lasting medium-term and long-term solution which ensures that all of the resources go into minimising the suffering, ensuring that there is national support, supported by the commission and other member states doing what they can, to ensure that people are not left in a situation where there are no collective efforts to support a country in distress. as other colleagues have said, this situation is repeated in other member states. that is what we are here to debate, rather than other external issues. the commission must do its job and we in this parliament should ensure that the collective response is maximised.
mr president, the delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs seems to believe that the problems of migration are confined to the problems of the migrants. they were concerned that sub-saharan africans were suffering because one of several lavatories at trapani did not flush. you simply do not have to put up with problems like that in sub-saharan africa. the delegation assumed that the local population in lampedusa was pleased to act as welcoming hosts to the migrants. it came as a shock to them that, when the migrants escaped, they immediately clashed with the locals; indeed the harbour was declared an unsafe area. rescuing migrants in danger from the sea is of course the only proper response. however, must the rescuer’s country really be punished by having to entertain their requests for asylum? when the italian and libyan governments signed an agreement in 2010 to return the immigrants to their home countries, the flow of immigrants began to slow down immediately. the gratitude of the asylum seekers in lampedusa was breathtaking. they thanked their hosts for supplying them with safe and expensive accommodation by burning it down. if you lie on the ground in front of incomers, you must not be surprised if they walk all over you.
mr president, the arab spring was undoubtedly the most important political transformation in the middle east and north african countries in decades. despotic and corrupt – but secular – governments were cast aside, and promises of freedom abounded. however, the transitional governments that have emerged so far have mostly failed to live up to their laudable commitments to plurality, with tunisia perhaps being the sole exception. the eu is a powerful trading bloc with a significant and proven ability to influence the conduct of governments through soft power. the eu should therefore use its exclusive competence in trade matters, and the fact that it is a significant aid donor with the ability to influence multilateral banking institutions such as the eib and ebrd, to ensure that democracy and human rights are fully respected in our southern neighbourhood. there is now considerable concern, with the election of some fundamentalist parties such as the salafist al-nour party in egypt, which are insistent on introducing hard-line sharia law into the constitution. this jeopardises women’s rights, homosexual rights, minority rights and, in particular, the rights of coptic christians, who will not only be discriminated against, but actively persecuted if this goes through. in such a case, if egypt also wishes to unpick the camp david agreement, the peace treaty with israel would also be in danger. the eu must reserve the right to suspend all aid and trade concessions in protest and as a possible sanction. ‘more for more’ alone is not enough.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the patentability of smart breeding techniques raises very important issues for the research and development involved in the seed industry, and is a very complicated issue. the processes in these breeding techniques introduce additional steps beyond those contained in conventional breeding practices. these steps and processes require considerable research and development, and therefore entail costs. we must be mindful of the need to protect those investments in order to provide appropriate incentives for future innovation. whilst it is right to consider the need to facilitate access to genetic materials, we also need innovation to address the huge challenge that we have with food security in the future. i therefore support my group’s amendments, which call for a detailed debate on this issue. this parliament should not direct unilaterally the decisions of the european patent office and should definitely not do so by means of a backdoor resolution, without proper stakeholder input. the issue is too important for hasty proclamation without proper consultation.
mr president, in recent years there has been a growth in the number of applications to the european patent office for patents on plants and animals derived from conventional breeding. without doubt, the most difficult determinations involved when creating a potential trail of case law for patenting essentially biological processes is where to draw the line between a method rendered entirely in a laboratory and the extent to which natural viable processes will then be governed by law. producers, universities and enthusiastic gardeners and breeders must not be vulnerable to multinational industrial giants who are monopolising designs for naturally-rendered new species. the eu’s 1998 directive does not clearly define the boundaries between classical and modern methods of breeding and does not consider the social, economic or ecological implications. cultural discrepancies and the social and moral implications of genetic modification and manipulation and the propagation of new life forms for scientific investigation or commercial or agricultural purposes must be heeded and should remain the sovereign prerogative of nation states.
mr president, some of the debate has been rather emotive, suggesting that we might be opposing this because we are in favour of the patenting of the plants themselves. that is not the case. this paper is full of errors. look at paragraph 4, which not only excludes from patenting products derived from conventional breeding, but also seeks to remove from patenting innovations in things like smart breeding. there is also paragraph 7, which talks of a comprehensive breeders’ exemption, which is not the case. this depiction of us as supporting the patenting of plants simply does not ring true. i am speaking as a farmer. i am speaking on behalf of farmers, and i also have experience in plant breeding – which was the subject of my phd – so i am not speaking from a position of ignorance here.
mr president, each year members of this house receive some eur 50 000 by way of a general expenditure allowance to cover their office costs. the purpose to which that money should be put is clearly stated in the rules. however, it is paid into the private accounts of members, there are no audits carried out and no one knows what happens if there is a surplus in those accounts. i am in no doubt at all that many members simply regard this as pocket money, although it is a huge sum of money well in excess of the average income of most of our citizens, with some of that money probably finding its way into the political parties that we represent. that means it is money going from the public purse with no transparency at all. parliament has called for transparency; parliament has called for the secretary-general to bring forward recommendations for new procedures. this is a scandal waiting to happen. i ask you, mr president, to put pressure on the secretary-general to do what parliament has requested of him, and to bring forward procedures to ensure that this money is spent entirely transparently.
mr president, last year sugar prices hit a 30-year high. the eu is facing a sugar shortage in spite of a global sugar surplus. these shortages are unnecessary and the commission is to blame. because of the mismanagement of the sugar regime, cane sugar refineries across europe are under threat. these refineries provide more than 4 500 jobs in some of the poorest parts of the eu. cane refineries are being forced to pay a higher price for their raw materials than their competitors. the commission must ensure a level playing field to protect jobs. the commission must include sugar cane in its strategy in order to address this artificial shortage.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am delighted to present my own-initiative report on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu. this report is born out of the need to recognise the important role that regional air services play for european citizens and in our economy. it also reflects the tendency of the commission and others to neglect the opportunities that they provide. the report acknowledges that regional air services have an integral role in the economic well-being of the eu and are vital to the financial and social vibrancy of the regions. europe’s airports provide a large network of 150 000 city pairs. they are essential to facilitating the smooth running of the single market by transporting people and goods between key parts of member states. they are essential generators of economic growth by expanding trade beyond traditional partnerships, boosting the economies of regions they serve and often connecting inaccessible regions and islands to the broader economy, thus allowing their continued viability. aviation, however, is an industry with small margins and this is especially true at the regional level. the financial and sovereign debt crisis has substantially changed the conditions for financing regional airports. this must be counteracted by the removal of economic barriers and a better definition of their role in the transport network. indeed, i strongly believe that regional airports need to be seen as an integral part of the trans-european network, rather than somewhere away on the periphery. by bringing regional airports closer into the transport network, we can provide more of an incentive for industry to better integrate across modes and develop benefits for our citizens, for example, via multimodal ticketing, as cited in the report. the report calls on the commission to speed up the development of sesar and the single european sky as a matter of urgency. these programmes will bring environmental and economic savings. as well as this, regional airports, which are running well below capacity, can have a role to play in alleviating the capacity crunch that a number of major airports are suffering. if implemented properly, encouraging region-to-region services could lead to less congestion and greater environmental efficiency. similarly, when considering the upcoming airports package, i call on the commission to pay particular attention to the regions, as currently they risk being priced out of the market leaving greater consolidation between major airports and airlines, with the result being less choice and higher prices. the report also aims to tackle the practices of certain airlines on two main subjects: price transparency and onboard baggage. it is the practice of some carriers to add charges to the headline price of a ticket. this report calls for companies to offer all passengers a method of credit or debit card payment that is free and to include any unavoidable administration fees in the headline price. it is important that people know what they will be paying, and not find the cost of their ticket ratcheted up through the entire process. with regard to onboard baggage, the report calls for the industry to set common upper limits for weight and size restrictions. this again is so that consumers know what to expect when travelling. the report also calls for airside purchases to be treated as separate to the ‘one-bag’ rule. the strict application of this so-called ‘one-bag’ rule as it stands is used as a tool, in some cases, to increase profits to the detriment of consumers. the current practice is particularly harmful at regional airports, which often heavily reduce fees to carriers on the basis of passenger throughput, making these up in retail sales. i strongly believe that regional airports and air services have a role to play in reinvigorating our economy as part of a well functioning transport network. therefore, i call on the commission to listen to what we are saying in parliament. the commission must be bold and take action for the benefit of consumers, the travelling public and the many businesses that flourish by having access to airports and air services.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the procedure whereby we in this house approve the use of the eu budget by the commission and the other institutions is our greatest responsibility as representatives of the citizens of the member states. yet, year after year, while the court of auditors fails to give the eu spending a clean bill of health, this house is happy to approve the management’s performance. the auditors’ report for the year 2010 reveals that the error rate – a fine name for the irregular use of funds – has grown from 3.3% to 3.7%. they add that 50% of the transactions sampled were affected by errors. how can we tell taxpayers that their money has been properly spent when we have this situation? worse, how can we ask taxpayers to put even more into policy areas such as cohesion, energy and transport, where the error rate has increased to an astonishing 7.7%? the increase in the number of agencies from three to 24 in a decade is a matter of concern. the commission seems to have little control over them, which means that, in the discharge reports, one sees the same stories again and again: conflicts of interest and a revolving door to outside employers at least as efficient as the ones in this building. yet while this house is prepared to turn a blind eye to the deficiencies of those responsible for most of the budget, including itself, it puts great energy into refusing to approve the management of the council’s budget. it is not that i want to defend the council, but this is merely playing politics – and that, in essence, is what the discharge procedure has become, a political game. so, dear taxpayers, nobody actually cares how your money is spent. the solution? stop sending money to brussels!
madam president, here we are again. year after year, nothing changes and european taxpayers’ money continues to be wasted. the stark truth is that in 2012 we are still being asked to grant discharge to accounts which the court of auditors has condemned. ecr meps believe that taxpayers have a right to expect their money will be spent properly, so today we will be voting against the discharge. in some areas we have gone backwards in tackling mis-spending. the error rate in structural funds has increased significantly, which is particularly disappointing given the commission’s rhetoric on improving the situation in regional policy. there has been a clear failure of oversight from the commission so i am encouraged that the committee on budgetary control accepted our proposal that there should be a full-time budgetary control commissioner in the next commission term. such an important role cannot be a part-time job if we are serious about protecting taxpayers’ money. it is also good news that the committee agreed with us on refusing to grant discharge to three agencies, but we should not have granted discharge to any of the agencies until they could demonstrate responsible management of public money. in such a difficult time for the european economy it is completely unacceptable that even a penny of taxpayers’ money is squandered. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, the question the gentleman asks relates to the 2010 budget discharge when the conservative party was not in government in the uk. it was a socialist party that was in government in the uk, so i suggest he addresses the question to them.
mr president, it is not primarily our job to give an opinion on whether the money was spent as we would wish or in agencies of which we would approve. it is, of course, to decide whether or not it was spent in accordance with the authority given to the agency in question. some of these reports contain few, if any, criticisms, and the criticisms are minor. assuming the rapporteurs were provided with accurate information and that they took account of that information, then parliament should attest to that. a good example of this is mrs macovei’s report on the european centre for disease control. but her report on the budget for the european environment agency does provide some evidence for suspicions of overlaps of spending – i will speak cautiously in that way – with ngos or pressure groups with which staff of the agency had rather too close a relationship. her report on the budget for the food safety agency was unexceptionable in itself, but i am concerned about amendments that would seek to water down the recommendations of the original report to prevent conflicts of interest.
mr president, i have lost count. is this the 17th year in which the auditors have failed to give a positive declaration on the eu’s budget or, in other words, have we now reached 17 years in which taxpayers’ money has not been properly accounted for? i note the statement in the resolution on the discharge of the commission budget that progress has been made since the resignation of the santer commission, but i have to ask: ‘really?’ in 2008, commissioner mandelson was accused of a conflict of interest after holidaying with a russian oligarch whose company subsequently benefited from his department’s decisions. in june 2011, commission president barroso ran up a eur 25 000 hotel bill for a four-night luxury stay in new york. then there was the commission memo issued by dg trade in 2009 which encouraged officials to conceal information from public scrutiny. the eu and its institutions have failed to practise what they preach and what places them above the citizens they purport to represent. it is time the uk left this mess.
mr president, in july last year my home in the united kingdom was surrounded by a mob fuelled by racist and religious hate, with weaponry in their possession and intent on violence. my wife and child were left petrified and in fear for their safety. twelve people have now been convicted in the criminal courts for these offences. i thank outgoing president buzek for his condemnation of this incident whilst in office, and my colleague emine bozkurt for her support, along with the support of the overwhelming majority of members of the house. i thank the lancashire police for protecting my family, which allowed me to carry on with my parliamentary duties, and the crown prosecution service for delivering these racist extremists to justice. colleagues, to this day i have no answer to give my nine-year-old daughter, who still asks why. yet in this chamber sits one mep who at the time offered these racists any help and support he could. be sure of one thing. we will not cower in the face of your thuggery. you and your sort will never divide us. we will stand united and face you. today i speak not only for this house, but for every right-thinking citizen of my country and europe. (applause)
mr president, we are going at such a speed that by the time i hear ‘for, against, abstain’, it is too late to put your hand up. i realise that everybody wants to go to their lunch, but we are either here to vote or we are not. if we are here to vote we should do it at a speed where it is possible to put your hand up and down in the right order. grazie, signor presidente!
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu. i particularly welcome the suggestion that those regional airports which are consistently running at low capacity could be used to relieve the congestion in the main hub airports which are severely congested as well. i feel that this would help to create a more efficient eu aviation area as well as addressing the specific regional aviation issues. i believe that better integration of regional airports into the transport network nationally and internationally really will bring added value in terms of encouraging other benefits for eu citizens. i also back the report’s claims that the imposing of heavy luggage restrictions, and especially the one-bag rule imposed by some airlines and the addition of certain unavoidable charges, threatens revenue from vital retail sales at airports. this is particularly the case for regional airports, which often have to negotiate extremely competitive landing charges in order to attract airlines in the first place.
mr president, i voted against this report because i do not believe in granting any discharge for any part of the budget until the budget as a whole has been signed off by the court of auditors. the parliament is squandering money on propaganda. the visitors’ centre costs eur 20 million; it is neither on budget nor on time. we have set aside eur 5 million for the house of european history. let us make history today by putting a stop to this travesty. we have reduced the budget of the european parliament by 14%, and yet it still costs us eur 8 million a year. all this without mentioning the white elephant in the room: we must scrap strasbourg. we are living in an age of austerity. it is our duty to tighten our belts and lead by example.
mr president, british citizens donate millions of pounds each year to charities which help those living in developing countries. however, it is also our duty to ensure that official development assistance is spent wisely. the commission’s own monitoring indicates that more than a quarter of eu projects are either not performing or performing with difficulty. i wrote to the commission earlier this year to ask how many projects it had cancelled in 2011 due to poor performance. i was shocked to discover that it had not cancelled a single one. the eu needs to be more responsible with taxpayers’ money. both eu citizens and the people whom we are trying to help deserve better.
mr president, my group is deeply concerned by the ever-growing size of the eu’s budget and its lack of efficiency and accountability. we are thus reluctant for discharge to be granted for any part of the european union’s budget until the budget in its entirety is approved by the court of auditors. given that this report proposes the granting of discharge, i voted against. though the report calls for follow-ups of past audits to be included in the court of auditors’ future work programmes as a means of assessing progress – a proposal that my group backs – i cannot vote in favour of any discharge being granted until the budget as a whole has received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. i thus generally voted in favour of the reports proposing postponement of discharge and against those that proposed the granting of discharge. a few exceptions included the environment agency, the food safety agency and the european medicines agency, which is located in my london constituency. however, in general, i am extremely sceptical about the whole discharge process for the eu budget.
mr president, as a member of the women’s rights and gender equality committee, i see no added value in the european institute of gender equality. the institute is an expensive folly with a budget of eur 7 million. it duplicates the work of member states, the work of the commission’s dg employment and, most shamefully of all, the work of another eu agency, the eu agency for fundamental rights. the british government, when faced with austerity, promised a bonfire of quangos. winding up advisory bodies and agencies in the uk is set to save that country over gbp 2 billion. the eu needs to light its own quango bonfire – and where better to start than the european institute of gender equality?
mr president, along with the rest of the ecr group, i voted in favour of this report on roaming on public mobile communications networks. i believe that it is very important that the current gap between roaming and national telecom tariffs should be reduced, and i believe that the suggestions made in this report will make this happen. separating the sale of roaming services from the sale of national tariffs will mean that customers will be able to purchase roaming services from a provider other than the one which provides their national tariff. this will encourage more competition in the eu market. keeping in place the price caps for retail and wholesale will also serve to offer opportunities for new entrants to the roaming market, which again i think is extremely important for our citizens. this is a rare, tangible example of where we can show the public that the eu is really doing something positive for our electorates.
mr president, for consumers across europe who have been through tough times over the last number of years, today’s vote to cap roaming charges on text, phone and data charges will be a small piece of good news. as a result of our actions today, on 1 july consumers can expect to see a reduction in their phone bills when they travel in europe. the extension to include capping of data roaming charges will not only be a boost to holiday-makers but to those travelling on business. i am sure many of us can remember some very nasty experiences with the cost of data roaming and data download while working abroad. so, hopefully, families and businesses across europe will no longer face the prospect of being ripped off every time they use their phones abroad and return to find astronomical bills waiting on them. while caps may be effective in the short term, i also welcome the structural measures in the legislation which aim to stimulate better competition in the eu roaming marketplace. that will hopefully deliver a well-functioning competitive marketplace, which is the right solution to solve this problem in the longer term. by opening up market access to competitors and by decoupling roaming services from national providers, competition will hopefully improve and drive down prices even more. good news in time for summer holiday-makers.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the application of rome ii – the rules applied in conflicts of law in cases of non-contractual obligations. the report proposes changes to the regulation which would mean that it would also cover violations of privacy as well as rights regarding legal personality. the report i have just voted on also takes into account the ecr group’s concerns, in relation to the initial draft, that the proposals had the potential to impact negatively on press freedom. the report does highlight the fact that the uk is the most attractive jurisdiction in which to bring an action for defamation, as it is regarded as the most claimant-friendly in the world. although this is currently being investigated by the uk government, and i think some sense of rebalancing in this area is needed, we are understandably supporting or looking very carefully at the proposal that this type of action should formally come under the remit of rome ii.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution on the patenting of essential biological processes. following several cases of certain smart breeding methods for plants being brought before the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in munich, i backed the conclusion of this resolution that the use of markers at molecular level should come under the exemption that precludes essentially biological processes for the production of plants. while i believe that the techniques used to create these markers may themselves be patentable, the simple fact of using a marker does not differentiate the process sufficiently from one that is essentially biological.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation amending a previous regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not within the european community. the prior regulation was inconsistent with the anti-dumping agreement forged under the auspices of the wto and as a result must be amended to ensure compliancy.
in writing. − i voted for this report approving the commission’s handling of ‘definitive anti-dumping measures on certain iron or steel fasteners from china’.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement repealing the quota set on importations of steel from the russian federation as, if left unaltered, it would put member states at risk of legal actions from russia as the quota limits would be a violation of wto rules. russia acceded to the world trade organization in december, meaning it has liberalised its market allowing greater exportation and importation globally. the initial item of legislation must be rewritten to avoid a failure on both sides to obey wto rules.
in writing. − i strongly believe that the wto remains the best guarantor of a rules-based multilateral trading system and express the hope that both its new member - russia - and the eu will live up to all their commitments within the wto. i also wish to see the eu-russia trade relationship develop in full compliance with jointly agreed provisions of existing bilaterally agreements. for these reasons i voted to give consent to the proposed repeal of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2007.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which improves accessibility for citizens to the eu’s bodies and increases legal certainty.
in writing. − i consider that the council text provides for a welcome reform of the way in which the oj is published, as it provides for increased legal certainty and better access for citizens to legal acts of the european union. currently, almost everyone consults only the electronic form of legal acts of the eu. the fact that electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding is unacceptable in itself, and creates uncertainty as to the precise content of the legal acts of the eu currently available in the eur-lex database. moreover, the consultation of paper versions of the official journal is a time-consuming, costly process, and is carried out by very few users. the reform will thus increase legal certainty and decrease access costs for citizens and businesses. all such reforms should be very welcome in the eu.
in writing. − i do not believe corneliu vadum tudor should be granted the opportunity to seek parliamentary immunity regarding this case. the eviction of the românia mare party and the surrounding circumstances do indeed constitute, respectively, civil and criminal matters which do not have a direct, obvious connection with mr tudor’s performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament. mr tudor’s request relates to criminal proceedings in which he is accused of committing acts of violence and attempting to obstruct the execution of a legal decision in the context of the eviction of his party from its premises in bucharest. parliament would be setting a dangerous precedent by allowing immunity in matters such as this, where resultant behaviour cannot be excused.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament decides not to defend the immunity and privileges of corneliu vadim tudor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of philip bradbourn’s own-initiative report on regional airports and air services because it managed to strike a good balance between the important role regional aviation plays in regions’ economic development, in terms of boosting competitiveness and promoting territorial cohesion within europe, and the warning against proliferation of regional airports. however i strongly disagreed with paragraph 13 of this report in two respects. commercial and retail activities can have perverse effects by cross-subsidising landing charges. this can leave the busiest airports being able to offer lower landing charges, thus making it more difficult for regional airports to compete. moreover, restrictions on hand baggage granted by budget carriers are not a breach of competition law and conversely have stimulated competition.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote as, while the proposals amount to a sensible defence of regional airports from heavy-handed regulation, little is offered by way of a solution. the eu is prone to gearing legislation towards major air hubs while regional airports struggle to adapt to a litany of regulation from brussels. in wales we have one primary airport serving the country. it is not a major hub and is exactly the sort of airport that is adversely affected by over-bureaucracy that makes it harder for it to compete alongside other larger local airports across the border.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which rightly stresses the importance of air transport, particularly to outlying areas. a number of the members of this house are opposed to the report on the basis that greater priority should be given to other forms of transport, such as rail. whilst this may be a valid argument in some parts of the eu, it ignores the geographical and demographic realities of other parts, such as the highlands and islands of scotland.
in writing. − i welcome this report. i stress the importance of regional airports in the context of air transport and their important role in contributing to territorial, economic and social cohesion, both within the member states and throughout the union, by connecting regions; points out that existing public service obligations should be maintained, and that any such obligations agreed in the future should be justified by the need to guarantee the accessibility and territorial continuity of regions, such as the outermost regions, peripheral or island regions, and central areas not lying on the main transport routes, given that suitable air transport links would enable them to cope with their inherent geographical handicaps
in writing. − i wholeheartedly welcome my colleague mr bradbourn’s report on regional airports. this has received widespread support in parliament, which is a testament to the importance of the issue. in regions such as my constituency of northern ireland, which could be deemed as being somewhat peripheral, the services provided by regional airports are of vital importance to individuals, businesses and the local economy in general. for me, the crucial point of this report is the call for regional airports to be given some protection and security in relation to their access to larger ‘hub’ airports. this crucial aspect of ‘connectivity’ can be put at risk if airlines decide to reallocate slots to more profitable routes. as another airline has recently decided to pull out of belfast city airport – resulting in a further reduction of air services for northern ireland – the issues raised in this report are very timely.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is utterly inconceivable that parliament should grant any discharge for even a part of the budget until the budget as a whole has been signed off by the court of auditors, something which has never to date happened without significant tweaking and deception.
in writing. − while of course having doubts about some aspects of eu expenditure in 2010 i felt overall able to vote to give discharge to the commission for the general budget.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is utterly inconceivable that parliament should grant any discharge for even a part of the budget until the budget as a whole has been signed off by the court of auditors, something which has never to date happened without significant tweaking and deception. i also believe that it is a disgrace that parliament continues to waste money during a time of strict austerity on projects such as a visitor’s centre, the house of european history, the lux prize and other such awards designed to promote the eu’s erroneous values which simply function as vehicles to push forward brussels’ agenda. as such it is using taxpayers’ money to afford propaganda when hundreds of thousands of citizens in europe are hostile to the machinations of the european union in their home countries and suffering terribly as a result of the failed single currency project. it also brings about the subject of holding parliamentary plenary in strasbourg, which is not only a profligate waste of money but goes against the eu’s purported carbon reduction values. the agreement to have parliament in strasbourg was to satiate calls from the then french government, calls which are outdated and smack of preferentialism.
in writing. − i voted for this report. i find unacceptable the way in which the commission recourses to budget support within enpi, treating it as the preferred aid modality in the three countries, without a detailed evaluation of the effectiveness of the available tools; stresses in this context that sector budget support is often related to a low visibility and occasional motivation by the governments, and is deeply concerned by the court of auditors’ conclusion that the suitability of an area for sector budget support became an important factor for determining assistance in the 2007 annual action programmes; urges the commission to follow the court of auditors’ recommendation to choose sector budget support more selectively by considering all available options in enpi and to develop a more balanced deployment of the different tools; stresses the need to increase the access of ngos and the private sector in the beneficiary countries to the assistance provided
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is utterly inconceivable that parliament should grant any discharge for even a part of the budget until the budget as a whole has been signed off by the court of auditors, something which has never to date happened without significant tweaking and deception. i also believe that it is a disgrace that parliament continues to waste money during a time of strict austerity on projects such as a visitor’s centre, the house of european history, the lux prize and other such awards designed to promote the eu’s erroneous values which simply function as vehicles to push forward brussels’ agenda. as such it is using taxpayers’ money to afford propaganda when hundreds of thousands of citizens in europe are hostile to the machinations of the european union in their home countries and suffering terribly as a result of the failed single currency project. it also brings about the subject of holding parliamentary plenary in strasbourg, which is not only a profligate waste of money but goes against the eu’s purported carbon reduction values. the agreement to have parliament in strasbourg was to satiate calls from the then french government, calls which are outdated and smack of preferentialism.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘notes the reply given by parliament’s secretariat to the effect that the annual cost of parliament’s seat in strasbourg stood at precisely eur 51 500 000 in 2010, comprising eur 33 500 000 in infrastructure costs and eur 18 000 000 in operating costs for the 12 monthly part-sessions; points out that these official figures are far lower than the estimates previously put forward, which ranged from eur 169 000 000 to eur 203 000 000’.
in writing. − i voted for this report which parliament reconfirms its position of supporting edf budgetisation; strongly believes that this is an indispensable step towards strengthening the democratic control, the accountability, and the transparency of funding and towards providing more coherence in union policy concerning acp countries; underlines that budgetisation would reduce transaction costs and would simplify reporting and accounting requirements by having only one set of administrative rules and decision-making structures instead of two; expects the commission to ensure that the budgetisation is not made on the expenses of a loss of predictability of acp funding.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament "postpones its decision on granting the secretary-general of the council discharge for implementation of the council’s budget for the financial year 2010"
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament " grants the registrar of the court of justice discharge for implementation of its budget for the financial year 2010"
in writing. − i am relieved that parliament is able to grant discharge to the secretary-general of the court of auditors for the implementation of the court of auditors’ budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which "notes with satisfaction that the eesc bureau decided, on 6 december 2011, to undertake a reform of the system for reimbursing expenses to members, including reimbursement of transport tickets on the basis of real costs only, which brings the daily allowances and travel allowances into line with those paid by parliament and provides for allowances to compensate for the time spent by members in performance of their duties and for the related administrative costs, taking into account the fact that eesc members do not receive any form of remuneration or pension from the eu budget"
in writing. − i voted for this report and am pleased to note that, in response to the call made in parliament’s resolution of 10 may 2011 on discharge for the financial year 2009, the cor has strengthened its budgetary procedure, which now comprises four stages: preparation by the cor’s administration, assessment of the preliminary draft by the committee for financial and administrative affairs (cafa), decision by the cor bureau and plenary assembly on the draft budget, and a mid-term review of implementation.
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament welcomes the fact that the ombudsman included key performance indicators in the 2010 action plan, together with a scoreboard, thus enabling performance to be measured using a benchmarking system; welcomes the progress made throughout the year.
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament "grants the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010"
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament "notes that some agencies have difficulties in spending their budgets in a timely manner and that funds are committed against projects unrelated to the financial year; is irritated by the fact that significant amounts of budget are allocated in the end of the financial year; considers this as a possible sign that union funds are, in some cases, used unnecessarily; calls on the court of auditors and especially the agencies themselves to provide additional information and justification in the cases of cedefop, cpvo, efsa, emsa, enisa, era, eurojust and fra that have spent more than 25 % of their budgets in the final two months of 2010, as well as on the cases of cepol, cpvo, frontex and again emsa that exhibit continuously high percentages of carry-forwards which have to be cancelled"
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament "grants the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2010"
in writing. − i voted for this report in which parliament "welcomes the fact that the centre was able to assure the discharge authority that it effectively applied the principle of transparency by regularly reporting to its governing board on all transfers between budget lines throughout the year; notes, in particular, that as of 20 september 2011 five transfers of commitment appropriations (of a maximum of eur 35 000) had been made by the centre between budget lines and that the governing board was regularly informed of those transfers; calls nevertheless on centre to reduce as much as possible those transfers in order also to apply the principle of specification"
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes the college's claim that the financial year 2010 was characterised by a lack of sufficient financial resources with a cut of eur 1 000 000 in the union contribution to the college's budget; is surprised by this view, particularly in this time of crisis, as good management ensures correct and cost-efficient spending of the budget available and considering that 31,6 % of the college's 2010 budget was carried over to 2011.
in writing. − i voted for this report which encourages the agency to increase transparency in its recruitment procedures; notes that the court of auditors stated weaknesses in this respect; acknowledges in particular that with regard to staff selection procedures, neither the thresholds that candidates had to meet in order to be invited to the selection interview nor those necessary to be put on the reserve list were fixed in advance.
in writing. − i voted for this report which recalls that two-thirds of the agency's budget comes from fees and charges paid by the industry, one third comes from union subsidies, and the initial union contribution to the agency for 2010 amounted to eur 32 879 000; notes however that eur 1 318 000, coming from the recovery of surplus, was added to that amount which, as a result, makes a total union contribution of eur 34 197 000.
in writing. − i voted to approve the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes that around the end of 2010, two important deadlines for reach and the classification, labelling and packaging regulation passed, and welcomes, therefore, the fact that the agency successfully managed to handle the reception and processing of 25 000 registration dossiers on 4 300 chemical substances that are either commonly used in europe or are the most hazardous and of over 3 million notifications for over 100 000 substances that are classified and have to be labelled to protect the user.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s call in this resolution encouraging the agency to continue its efforts to further develop its communication methods in order to attract more media coverage for its findings and thus feed public debate and broaden the scope of the environmental information available to the public on important environmental issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and the management of natural resources.
in writing. − i voted to give discharge to the european food safety agency while noting that parliament ‘[f]inds it unacceptable that while the management board of the authority consists of only 15 members, each meeting costs on average eur 92 630, which represents an amount of eur 6 175 per member; underlines that this amount is nearly three times higher than the second most expensive management board of a decentralised agency; is of the opinion that the management board meetings costs are excessive and should be reduced drastically; calls on the authority and its management board to remedy the situation immediately and to inform the discharge authority of the measures undertaken by 30 june 2012’.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and share the view that a merger between the european institute for gender equality and the european union agency for fundamental rights should be considered in order to avoid duplication and reduce overhead costs.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘[n]otes weaknesses in the agency’s system for validating creditor claims in respect of it contractors; takes note of the agency’s statement that the weaknesses noted by the court of auditors related to a human error and were corrected, that it has strengthened its ex-ante operational and financial control of invoices and that no further weaknesses have been detected; invites the court of auditors to verify and inform parliament in this respect’.
in writing. − i voted for this report on discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which welcomes the improved cooperation between the centre and the european school survey project on alcohol and other drugs (espad) and believes that the monitoring of alcohol, tobacco and other addictive behaviours which are unrelated to substances should be included as a priority in the next drugs strategy of the union.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report but am concerned that, once again, the court of auditors reported 52 % of carryovers from the agency’s operational budget (title iii), expresses concern that this situation indicates delays in the implementation of the agency’s activities that are financed from title iii, and is at odds with the budgetary principle of annuality, and once more urges the agency to inform the discharge authority of the action taken by the agency to address this deficiency.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year. 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which emphasises that the foundation’s main activity involves contributing to the establishment of better living and working conditions by increasing and disseminating knowledge relevant to this subject through networks and surveys. it also observes that 68 % of the foundation’s staff are allocated to these operative activities while the rest of the staff are allocated to administrative tasks. the report considers it of high importance, therefore, for the discharge authority to assess the efficiency and the effectiveness of the surveys’ management process in the foundation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the director of the european police office discharge in respect of the implementation of the office’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which grants the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i was unable to be present for the votes on some discharge reports. had i been there, i would have voted against all of them. the scrutiny, evaluation and audit reporting on these budgets is unsatisfactory and therefore controls on waste, fraud, excess and ineffectiveness are inadequate. the eu budget needs to be reduced and the contributions of countries such as the uk, the second largest net contributor to the eu budget even after the ‘rebate’, should be cut.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote as while i concur that fraud regarding member state usage of funding must be tackled, it raises a number of concerns. in certain instances, what brussels deems to be ‘irregularities’ are punitive measures that simply return funding back to brussels based upon an illogical and unjust rationale, and indeed funding that i believe should not necessarily exist in the first place. most often necessary data from the member states is not collected making it impossible to establish the actual scale of fraud. there is also a high incidence of fraud within the eu institutions. as a member of parliament who opposes the majority of the eu’s functions i do not endorse many of the funds and regulations to which such anti-fraud measures are attached.
in writing. − i voted for this report which reiterates that it is necessary to continue to strengthen the independence, effectiveness and efficiency of olaf.
in writing. − i supported this report, just as i have supported past reports on this issue. mobile phone companies have shown themselves unwilling or incapable of delivering fair charges to consumers so legislative intervention is necessary. this report will benefit thousands of consumers and businesses across europe.
in writing. − i voted for these new eu-wide laws which will further slash roaming fees in time for summer. as well as action on call charges, these new rules are designed to bring down the costs of data roaming. texts will fall to 7p, calls will fall to 20p per minute and data costs will be capped with 1mb costing 40p. these new rules help end the rip-off culture that has existed for too long and helps british consumers out in these tough times. the new rules will take effect on 1 july this year.
in writing. − i voted against this as i am keen to protect the uk chemicals industry from over-regulation. the chemical industries association has stated that unless bold steps are taken, many companies may seek to move manufacturing plants from europe. in the current economic climate it is my belief that more needs to be done to promote growth and investment and create incentives for manufacturing plants to be based in europe. this means cutting the red tape that stifles development and seeking cost-effective solutions. in one of the worst recessions for generations, the chemicals industry has still driven more than gbp 1 billion into capital expenditure and spent more than gbp 5 billion on research and development, accounting for a third of the overall uk investment. the industry employs over half a million people and puts gbp 70 million a day into the uk economy, a grand total of gbp 17 billion a year. it is therefore essential that the industry is protected and concerns are heeded.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. exchange of information, shared responsibility and cooperative efforts between the union and the member states and third countries should be promoted with a view to ensuring sound management of chemicals, whether or not those third countries are parties to the convention. in particular, technical assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition should be provided directly by the commission and the member states, or indirectly via support for projects by non-governmental organisations, especially assistance seeking to enable those countries to implement the convention, thereby contributing to the prevention of harmful effects of chemicals on human health and the environment.
in writing. − i voted for this report which sets out a new procedure for adopting delegated acts and implementing acts. the aim is to have a procedure which sets out more clearly the arrangements for their rapid approval.
in writing. − press and media freedom are hallmarks of a democratic society and legal remedies must be available when that freedom is abused, particularly to the detriment of people’s private lives and reputation. each member state should ensure that such remedies exist and are effective in cases of infringements of such rights. member states should strive to ensure that prohibitively high legal costs do not result in any claimant being denied access to justice in practice. the cost of legal proceedings can also be ruinous for the media.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe it is the prerogative of the eu to act as a mediator in international affairs and set terms for democratic transitions and trade deals, etc. as part of the international community, britain as a sovereign country and member of nato and the un has opportunity to cast its opinion in such matters. however, the eu is a democratically bankrupt supranational organisation that i believe is on the cusp of witnessing its own revolutionary spring as elections across europe demonstrate growing distaste for austerity-led policies to protect the single currency. it is thus laughable that the eu should demand support for the transition to democracy in the arab spring countries when it has shown little willingness over the past few decades to host open and fair referenda and tackle the democratic deficit of its own triumvirate system.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which stresses that, while country-specific commercial strategies should be welcomed, these agreements should not be to the detriment of regional integration. it also regrets that south-south trade remains very limited and notes, in this regard, that in 2009 only 6 % of smc imports originated in other southern mediterranean countries (smcs), compared to 40 % from the eu. the resolution encourages the new democratically elected governments to be more open than their predecessors towards trading with neighbouring countries.
in writing. − today, i voted against the motion for a resolution on bio-patents. together with my liberal colleagues, i considered that this issue should have been debated in a broader context as part of an in-depth analysis of the current legislation and the recent decisions of the epo. the postponement of today’s vote we requested was unfortunately rejected. it would have allowed time to reach a genuine political balance between the rights of plant breeders and the right of those who hold patents on innovative breeding processes such as smart breeding. the approved resolution presents the debate as a settled matter and a mere clarification of current practice. this is not the case. i am committed to defend the breeders’ exemption principle under the plant variety rights directive. however, this cannot be a full blown exemption infringing the rights of the original right holder. a distinction must be made between free access to conventional breeding material for research and respect of the patent holder’s right through licensing when new varieties are commercialised and still contain the patented trait. this resolution literally removes all incentives for smart breeding developments and risks hampering innovation in an area where europe is a frontrunner.
in writing. − i believe it is utterly inappropriate for the eu as a supranational european organisation to be policing the coast off africa. piracy is a major problem and impacts around the world. recent high profile cases involving british tourists have brought the issue under the media spotlight, and it is of utmost importance that the international community cooperate to prevent this damaging illegal industry that was responsible for 15 deaths last year alone. yet it is not just policing that will combat the threat of piracy. the international community also needs to examine the root causes of the proliferation of this criminality. the eu has contributed to the increasing incidence of piracy in east african seas by over-fishing african waters under unjust trade deals. eu trawlers indiscriminately dredge oceans around the world for fish, leaving native communities, many of which are under-mechanised and wholly dependent upon fishing for self-sufficiency, unable to harvest the sort of catch they need to earn a decent living. the international community should look into the foreign exploitation of east african waters as a primary cause of the increase of piracy. the reason the eu wishes to police east african coasts is to protect their own commercial interests.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘[s]tresses that further piracy with impunity is an obstacle to deterrence; deplores the fact that despite eu transfer agreements with third countries (kenya, seychelles, mauritius), bilateral repatriation agreements for convicted pirates between seychelles and the somali regions of puntland and somaliland, and the various international legal frameworks, many pirates and other criminals are still not arrested or, when arrested, are often released due to a lack of solid legal evidence or a lack of political will to prosecute them; notes, too, that some eu member states have inadequate criminal-law safeguards against piracy on the high seas’.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, my group welcomes this report. as everybody knows, we do not always have enthusiastic support for proposals in this chamber, but this is one area in which we can pledge more than enthusiasm. we are positively excited about the idea of being able to get to the completion of the single market. businesses and consumers are, of course, the beneficiaries of a fully functioning and operative single market, most particularly so in this time of economic challenge. whilst we are all looking for markets outside europe – looking at the challenges of export – we must not neglect the challenges and the opportunities of the internal market. of course, delivering a single market for citizens and business does not stop at the creation of good legislation. there must also be adequate implementation as well as cross-border synergy between various national administrations. without this, and without this implementation, citizens will not be able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. my group supports the efforts of the commission and, most particularly, mr barnier, in the field of detailed reporting on progress with transposition in the member states. we welcome the rapporteur’s call for more determination in the enforcement of single-market legislation and clearer reporting on infringement proceedings being taken. ‘name and shame’ is often an ugly tool in politics, but it is often a very useful one – as is praising those who do well. we call on the commission to establish the single market act as a rolling programme to be continually reviewed and updated in order to ensure completion of the market. this should include prioritisation of measures to complete the digital single market, including investment in high-speed internet and cross-border payments. we also call on national administrations to sharpen up their thinking and their action. it is important for single-market transposition to be treated with urgency and transparency, so that, as we celebrate this auspicious anniversary, we can truly see the single market as the jewel in europe’s crown.
madam president, i am very pleased to be here – rather later than i expected, and thank you very much for including me in the speakers’ list. i was sorry to miss simon busuttil’s presentation of his report and your response, commissioner, but i would just say that, as chair of the committee, i am pleased that so many colleagues are here to support you. we do not all agree on everything, as mrs rapti indicated, but nevertheless i think the detailed analysis of the issues in this report is an indication of the depth of knowledge and engagement that my committee has for single market issues. i know you will take it seriously, as i am sure you have already said at the beginning. unfortunately, because i was not here to hear everybody else’s speeches, i do not know whether i will be duplicating what people have already said. but in my remarks i just want to concentrate on two particular aspects. i will come back in a moment to refer to the question of infringements which mrs rapti raised, but first i want to highlight how our monitoring of the effectiveness and impact of the single market can evolve, namely by understanding the level of lost opportunities that still exist. i am reminded of a phrase that was used by one of your distinguished predecessors, mr bolkestein, in one of his reports on the single market, which we received annually – and i have been around long enough in the single market to have done a report on that – where he described the single market as a ferrari motoring along in second gear. at the time i said that it was not necessarily a ferrari that we wanted, because what we want is not top speed but solidity, reliability and accessibility to everybody; but i think the point was, nevertheless, well made. the problem that we have, colleagues, is that we do not know how many lost opportunities are still out there in the single market, where businesses have tried to sell goods or services in a country (which they are legally entitled to do) and are still frustrated by existing barriers – many of which should have been cast away by the services directive and the goods package – so they go off and go to another market, or they take another product. we can never calculate those lost opportunities, but i think the question about attitudes of business to the single market, knowledge of instruments like solvit and the point of single contact, are clear indicators of loss of potential. in this report there is just a short paragraph (but a significant one) where we ask the commission to include the findings of the eurobarometer surveys in the annual governance check-up. what i particularly want to ask the commissioner is whether, in the annual eurobarometer surveys that are linked into the governance framework for the internal market, we should be including awareness measures about the extent to which companies and individuals know about their rights, solvit and the points of single contact – because if we do not do that, we will have no indication about how the member states and the commission are promoting [the single market] together. similarly, my colleagues have called for the your europe platform to be incorporated too so we can have a single powerful brand name and citizens and businesses will know where to go to get information. that is my first point. on the second point, about infringements, i think the core idea that was in the report about fast-track procedures stands. it may well be that ideas about an independent infringement assessment are at too much of an early stage but, to be fair to mr busuttil’s amendment, it only says ‘potentially considered’. however, it seems to me that, if people cannot sell a product or a service because of a government not implementing legislation, we have to deal with that quickly. justice delayed is justice denied.
madam president, in the early days of what was the ec, the words ‘free trade’ rather than ‘single market’ were used. the word ‘free’ is of course an emotively favourable word that gave the idea an attraction, but misled many about its reality. the freedom enjoyed by this traded good is paid for by that person’s job, or the other firm’s factory. this person’s free movement is that person’s lost job. the rapporteur refers to the alleged need for member states to transpose and implement the laws of their eu masters. he calls upon the commission to pursue swiftly infringement proceedings against countries that have failed to remove minor impediments to a single market. he calls rather ominously for greater monitoring of member states by the commission. back in 1973, when the uk joined, many of us warned of the orwellian double-think that lay behind nice words like ‘free’ and ‘freedom’. we can now hear the chilling and repressive reality falling from the lips of the eurocrats.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am alarmed at the tendency of the european union to trespass into areas of national sovereignty where it does not belong; this is another example of that trend. it is the rightful business of the canadian government – and not us – to decide who it lets into its country, and why. canada is not discriminating against us europeans: it introduced similar restrictions for mexicans, even though mexico is in the north american free trade agreement. canada has successfully lifted the requirement for temporary visas where conditions are met. it has done so for estonia, latvia, poland, slovakia, lithuania and hungary. there seems to be serious confusion in the commission’s stance in two regards. firstly, there is confusion as to whether such visa matters belong in free trade agreements. they do not; just as ‘mode 4’ worker access is not appropriate in the draft eu/india free trade agreement, so traveller visa matters do not belong in this canadian free trade agreement. border issues like this are a matter for member states. the second point of confusion is about the european union being a country. yes, it aspires to be a country, but it is not one yet. so it is not the business of this place to force canada to treat every eu nation equally, as if we were one country. that is a matter for individual nation states working through their own embassies. the canadians have laid down fair and reasonable criteria, including low immigration violation rates, low asylum claims, high integrity of travel documents and good cooperation on removals. those are reasonable terms. if this principle is breached, however, every eu member state can expect the eu to start dictating all its border matters, and many eu member states may well dislike losing control of their own borders to eu diktats. france and spain have suspended schengen on occasion, as has spain this month, and the dutch have tried to block bulgaria and romania. so in conclusion, mr president, this is a line in the sand; a legal and political border that the eu must not cross. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – ms parvanova, i think the point you are missing is that they are all nation states. the objection i have is to pretending that the eu is one country and saying that we are trying to force equality on canada as if the eu were one country. by all means let the national embassies argue with the canadian authorities and do it for themselves, but i do not think the eu should be acting this way, and certainly not within free trade agreements. i am on the committee on international trade, and too much leeway is being given to items which are not to do with trade and jobs. europe desperately needs trade and jobs at this point. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the answer is that, as part of being a member of the european union, every member country, such as britain, has to hand over the negotiation of free trade agreements to the eu. i personally think that britain should be outside the european union and negotiate its own free trade agreements, as do norway and switzerland – and we would get a better result. that is the reason that is driving it. i am in favour of trade and of helping europe get better jobs – i think we all are here – but i think there are better ways of doing it.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the czech republic, bulgaria and romania are threatening the eu-canada trade agreement unless canada lifts its visa requirement for visitors from those three countries. canadians do not need visas to visit eu countries, whereas canada has imposed visa restrictions on these three eu member states. this is because of a previous influx of people from those countries who outstayed their welcome. canada takes the quite reasonable view that not all eu countries are the same, and that some pose a particular risk when it comes to unwanted visitors and guests. the canadians want to pick and choose who they admit and who they do not. however, this realistic view of the world falls foul of the eu ideological view that the eu is in fact one country, and to discriminate against one of its regions is not permissible. the canadian government already has a very generous system of allowing visa-free entry for 24 eu member states, but perhaps it has looked at my constituency, london, and seen what a completely unrestricted open-door immigration policy actually delivers. they will not get the visitors and migrants they want – the decent, hard-working and law-abiding – they will also get the down-and-outs, the deadbeats and the criminals. in marble arch, the very centre of london, we now have migrants living on the street, with all the unpleasant social and sanitary consequences that involves, which i will leave to your imagination. this is what indiscriminate, visa-free travel can deliver. the comprehensive economic and trade agreement put in jeopardy by canada’s reluctance to open its doors to all comers is reputedly worth a potential usd 12 billion per annum, and would boost two-way trade by 20%. what does the world need now? does it desperately need increased trade? does it desperately need increased economic activity, jobs and increased prosperity? i think we would all agree that it does. does it desperately need even more uncontrolled and unlimited migration? most rational people would think that it does not. let the canadians choose who they want to let into their country, and on what terms. let canada and europe get on with increasing the trade between them that can help us all out of the dire economic situation that we find ourselves in.
mr president, i speak to welcome the connecting europe fund, which is proposed for the new financial framework post-2013. right across europe there are still many large infrastructure projects that are needed to boost economic growth. this investment is, of course, needed now more than ever. indeed, in my own country – wales – transport infrastructure is still needed, for example electrification of the railway between london and west wales, which is so vital for our economy. the uk government proposes to fund that electrification only as far as cardiff. i would urge them to fund it at least as far west as swansea because of its importance to the west wales economy. but if they are refusing to do that, they should work with others, including the welsh government, to ensure that the project goes ahead. they should put in place a plan b, which should include bidding for connecting europe funds when they become available.
mr president, trying to rescue a country from debt by driving its population into austerity and unemployment is not so different in principle from the 19th century british policy of locking up the indebted in debtors’ prisons. however, borrowing yet more to increase aggregate demand is hardly going to reduce debt. quantitative easing will increase aggregate demand without increasing debt but, if not matched by increased production, it does tend to be inflationary. we must work from the principle that what is physically possible must be financially possible. if we have infrastructure work that needs to be carried out, and building workers who are unemployed, the latter must be employed to carry out the former. can inflation be avoided? yes, if full payment for the work is delayed until the project is complete, is in use and has added to our stock of goods and services. created money is not inflationary if it is matched, in quantity and in time, by an increase in goods and services.
madam president, this report confirms what i have been warning my constituents in london about, and the british people generally, for some years, which is that the eu intends to create its own system of criminal law. this project is already very well advanced and very comprehensive and i have written about it in a report of my own, freedom, security & justice? or the creation of a european union police state. we do not need an eu system of criminal law in england. we have something called the common law which has taken a thousand years to evolve. we have safeguards under magna carta, the bill of rights and habeas corpus, which are being swept away under this new system. they are being set aside. a british citizen can now be sent off to any corner of the european union on the strength of a piece of paper with vague accusations. they can be imprisoned for months or years. the english and scottish courts have abdicated their duty to protect their own citizens from arbitrary arrest and imprisonment. your system of eu criminal law would do for our liberties what the european single currency has done for your economies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am very pleased that this item and our question are on the agenda for debate today, but i am not so happy with the replies that are forthcoming. it is a very lonely matter for small businesses to start and to grow – and even to survive – and we need to give them all the assistance we can that is reasonable. the concerns of small businesses are fairly consistent over the years. first of all, they need access to information. they need assistance in finding out where to get help. secondly, they need assistance to gain access to finance. it is particularly difficult for people to raise small loans; banks hate lending small amounts of money to people and small enterprises; they like big amounts which they can manage and charge good fees on. that is a big challenge. but we can do something about the burden of administration, of red tape. complying with regulations is more difficult for small businesses than it is for larger firms. i want to close by saying that, for the longer term, i hope the commission will take on board the last point in our question about allocating unspent balances in other budget lines to research and development. that is the way to help jobs and wealth creation for the future.
mr president, we have heard a lot of fine words today about small businesses being the backbone of society and our economy, etcetera, etcetera, but what about the reality? i am reminded that president de gaulle scoffed at the english and called us a nation of shopkeepers. but, mr president, it is our small businesses and our shopkeepers that employ the vast majority of the workforce in the united kingdom. in my mobile surgery, that goes around every town and city in the west midlands on a regular basis, i meet shopkeepers who say they are being strangled by european union regulation; business rates are too high; there is not enough training; there is not enough access to finance. yet all they hear of, all the time, is more eu funds – the uk being the second largest contributor to the eu but having few recipients of aid and training. take the european globalisation fund: every other country in the eu has had access to this fund except the united kingdom. this is pertinent in ryton, near coventry, where peugeot closed down in 2005. it also closed plant in france, but the french got training and the people of coventry did not. then there are these ‘jeremie’ funds, providing funding for small businesses around europe, including in the south of france – a country that is a member of the g8. is there any in the uk? no, there is not. absolutely disgraceful! as i said, we are the second largest contributor to the european union; we need to cut out the middle man, fund our own small businesses and leave the european union.
mr president, small and medium-sized businesses face many problems, and red tape is a big one. micro-businesses should be exempted from large swathes of eu legislation and, when they are included, they should have a light-touch regime. access to funding is also a problem. some suggest increasing allocations of eu budgets for smes, but here again bureaucracy can be overwhelming. i have had many complaints from small businesses that have taken part in eu projects and have then waited for months or years for payment, and sometimes the money has never arrived. if a company is being contracted to carry out work and the work has been delivered, then it should be paid on time. the commission claims the late payment directive will solve this problem but, like much eu law, it has had unintended consequences. i know of one sector where large companies have simply cut out buying from smaller ones. we need to stop just talking about smes, and take some action. in calling for the debate today, we asked nine specific questions and, commissioner, i look forward to getting nine specific answers.
mr president, my region of the north-east of england is taking advantage of jeremie but it took many months to put the scheme in place. we need to go a step further now and help smes by mainstreaming revolving funds, loan guarantees and similar systems so that they are part of cohesion policy instruments. there is no one simple answer to the problem of smes’ lack of access to credit. my colleague sharon bowles has been doing her best through amendments to the capital requirements directive, but smes need other avenues to finance in addition to bank lending. crucially, along with the financial instrument itself, there must be proportionate corporate auditing and reporting standards, because there is no point in making finance theoretically available to smes if there is so much red tape that in practice no small business has time to put in an application. structural fund financing needs to be fully accessible to even the smallest small business.
blue-card question. – as the commissioner referenced my point, i think i should make it clear: i do not blame all this on the commission; there are many problems. my point is that we need to get specific about finding solutions where we can. we raised nine specific questions to look at, and we should be looking at specific answers. would you also agree with me that a micro-business employing five to ten people is very different to a medium-sized business of, say, 250 people, and that we should look at different regimes for micros?
mr president, wales is one of the poorest regions in the eu and also has a very high dependence on micro and small businesses. despite wales receiving two rounds of structural funding, it has not seen a significant improvement in gdp, and we therefore need to apply the structural funds in a different way in order to stimulate economic productivity. as the commissioner said in his opening remarks, if each sme were able to employ one new person, it would have a major impact on economic growth. therefore, we need to ensure that regions are explicitly encouraged to take action to allow smes access to structural funds on a priority basis, and not just through jeremie and jessica. civil servants cannot generate economic returns, but allowing our small businesses access to finance for employment and competiveness could provide a major stimulus. action to assist smes should not be considered state aid, since this can be used as an excuse by regional administrators for not funding smes.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – smes are blighted by the increasingly unobtainable access to finance and capital, a problem for the most part exacerbated by the on-going ineptitude of the european union in addressing problems that blight the eurozone, which in turn impact upon global markets. equally smes are the hardest hit when it comes to the application of heavy handed and unnecessary over-regulation by brussels. the uk government pledged to financially support small businesses and free up capital for investment yet have done nothing to hold banks accountable when they have failed to meet the prescribed targets – despite the government and taxpayer being a major shareholder in two high street banks. this issue does not require action from the eu, as such action, in line with all other eu policy making, is liable to be counterproductive to its objectives. instead it requires competence and commitment from the uk government, which could only be achieved if the uk left the european union and freed british business from the shackles of european regulation.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine, case of yulia tymoshenko. the vice-president/high representative cannot be here and mr füle will make the statement instead. before we go to the debate can i inform you that two guests from ukraine have taken their seats in the official gallery, ms yevgenia tymoshenko, daughter of the imprisoned ex-prime minister yulia tymoshenko... (applause)...and dr hryhoriy nemyria, former deputy prime minister of ukraine and deputy head of the yulia tymoshenko bloc. (applause) on parliament’s behalf, i extend to them a warm welcome and wish them a successful visit.
before we carry on can i just say that i gave mr brok extra speaking time for two reasons. firstly, he is chair of the committee on foreign affairs and secondly, he is elmar brok! but please, other colleagues, could you try and stick to time. mr lambsdorff, you have a blue-card question for mr rouček.
can i remind colleagues that the blue card is 30 seconds for the question and 30 seconds for the answer. ms roithová, do you have a blue card?
ms harms, you made several points very eloquently. an extra minute has been taken from your group’s time.
thank you, commissioner. i would also like to thank you again for the presence in the gallery of yevgenia tymoshenko, yulia’s daughter. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 may 2012. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – ukraine claims that the trial and imprisonment of yulia tymoshenko is all about the fight against corruption, yet apart from jailing the former prime minister, the government in kiev has failed to show its reformist colours, especially when it comes to tackling corruption. according to the heritage foundation’s 2012 index, ukraine’s economic freedom is the worst in europe. entrepreneurism is stifled by widespread corruption, with trade barriers and an unfriendly investment climate undermining economic growth. president yanukovych has said that the current ‘pause’ in eu-ukraine relations may actually benefit the two sides. i hope that yanukovych uses this pause to reflect on whether detaining tymoshenko is the best way of addressing corruption in his dysfunctional country. he needs to take a long hard look at the independence of the ukrainian courts. he needs to ask himself whether a corrupt judiciary coupled with the incarceration of the leader of the opposition is the right way to fulfil the promise he made in 2010 for a ukraine which was ‘a free state, where rights and freedoms are the highest values’. i hope that after hitting the ‘pause’ button that yanukovych doesn’t choose to rewind. otherwise the eu will have to press ‘stop’.
mr president, the report on the eu internal security strategy makes a number of sensible recommendations for improving security within the eu to ensure that our citizens are fully protected. i welcome suggestions to strengthen the eu’s internal security strategy in relation to combating the rising threats of terrorism and cross-border crime and those relating to natural and man-made disasters. in these instances it would be logical for the eu to formulate a coherent unified strategy, rather than have individual member states trying to tackle such threats alone. i also welcome proposals to strengthen the links with international organisations, such as nato, and to encourage member states to communicate their security strategies. however, the report refers to many initiatives outlined in the stockholm programme concerning justice and home affairs, which i do not support. it refers to the creation of a european legal culture in the field of criminal law, and touches on the development of a european policy on asylum and immigration. these are member state competences and should remain so.
mr president, the need to examine the robustness of europe’s internal security has never been stronger. whilst we see increasing problems with cross-border crime, including people-trafficking and cyber-crime, which both in their own special ways add to the total sum of human misery, we must be careful to develop a very proportionate response. there is a lot in this report which i can support. i am particularly keen on strengthening the international links and making sure that the communications between member states are improved. there should be no excuse for failure on the basis of lack of information. however, there is also much that i cannot support; there are references here to the stockholm programme in the areas of justice and home affairs which i do not support. there are also references to european legal culture in the criminal area, which is something that i do not recognise. i believe that member states need to keep their subsidiarity intact.
mr president, i abstained on this own-initiative report on the eu’s internal security strategy. though there were many proposals put forward by this report that i would back, there are also several i would reject. i thought that calls for the strengthening of links between the eu and nato on this issue are a very positive thing – i am the vice-chairman of the parliament’s delegation for relations with the nato parliamentary assembly – as would be setting out an eu strategy on dealing with the issue of organised crime within the eu. an enhancement in our cooperation intergovernmentally in this area can only be seen as a positive thing for our citizens. i took issue, however, with the references within the report to justice and home affairs initiatives put forward in the stockholm programme, which i do not agree with, as well as references to a wider single political strategy on asylum and immigration, which my group would not back as this should really be a member state competence.
mr president, the report recognises that criminal law is a highly sensitive policy area, and many member states feel that their own individual criminal justice systems should continue to serve them best. this is particularly relevant for my member state, the uk, where the criminal justice system dates back nearly 140 years. it is much more experienced, and thus better equipped, to tackle crime in the uk and beyond. the report acknowledges that an eu policy in criminal law would not necessarily be more cost-effective, nor would it result in a reduction in crime. indeed, it asserts that, instead of harmonising criminal law across the eu, it may be more prudent to improve mutual recognition. i was not able to support the report in its current form, as member states are best placed to coordinate activity directed at combating crime.
mr president, i have abstained on this report for a number of reasons, not least as summed up in its title: an eu approach to criminal law. there is a growing buzz of discussion over the area of criminal law in this chamber and in the eu generally. that discussion very often does not include enough emphasis on the proper place for member states’ subsidiarity. this is always a consideration for my political group, and most particularly for my national delegation of british conservatives. of course we should look at the implications of creating such eu criminal law, and the political and economic costs, but we know from so much experience that looking at, reviewing and developing an approach so very often turns into an overweening desire to legislate, regulate and impose. i simply cannot support that. whilst i see that many of the individual issues in this report are well-crafted and thoughtful, it simply does not outweigh my belief that each member state is best placed to make its own decisions.
mr president, i abstained on the de jong report on an eu approach to criminal law. i felt that the report was an interesting one, the approach was thoughtful and there were certain bits i could agree with. the rapporteur rightly acknowledges that there are several important differences between the criminal law and criminal proceedings systems of the different eu member states, and that each has its specific individual characteristics. nevertheless, i cannot back a report that advocates a unified approach to criminal law across the member states, as i am convinced that each individual member state should be competent to deal with these matters. so i reject ‘corpus juris’. our individual systems of criminal law and proceedings have evolved over many years, and each member state has its own crime patterns and a legal culture specific to itself. i would therefore propose that our individual criminal justice systems are better placed to deal with crime in our own countries than would be a system imposed from the top down by the european union.
mr president, i welcome the report on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers as it will give those consumers an added degree of protection when purchasing goods and products across the eu. the proposals put forward in the report are balanced and sensible, particularly in relation to misleading advertising, unfair contract terms and unfair business practices. these measures would also go some way to ensuring that the current differences which exist between products of the same brand in different member states are eliminated – a problem which many of my welsh constituents encounter daily. we need to ensure that all consumers are confident enough when buying products and are protected, by requiring member states to monitor information which is given to the public and to ensure that the information can be easily understood by all.
mr president, i voted for this report on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers because i believe it is an important element of creating a single market in europe which works for the benefit of all citizens and for european business. we are all vulnerable at some point in our lives, although we may not always wish to acknowledge that, particularly when we see ourselves in our prime. however, the development of the digital economy really does exacerbate this situation. we are all just one keystroke away from making a bad or a wrong decision as consumers and this can be far more difficult to rectify than such a decision made in a face-to-face transaction. this is particularly the case, as has been mentioned, for young people, but let us not forget the older consumers who, whilst they may be trying to welcome online business into their lives, find it creates specific challenges. this own-initiative report sets out a strategy for strengthening the rights of these people, calling on the monitoring of behaviour and the development of specific protection proposals, and i welcome it.
mr president, i voted in favour of the irigoyen pérez report on a strategy for strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers. the report stresses the importance of understanding what it is that makes the consumer vulnerable and picks up on the fact that vulnerability can come from external factors – for instance i myself was a victim of consumer credit fraud even though i am not vulnerable and i realise that there is very little come-back under our system against this – as well as from those that are inherent in the consumer’s physical and mental situation, and therefore proposes measures for the problems of vulnerability to be addressed on a case-by-case basis rather than a one-size-fits-all solution. i backed the report’s assertion that consumers’ ability to make the best decision by themselves is optimised in a situation in which they have access to all adequate information which is both comprehensible and easily accessible. i therefore back the commission’s efforts to provide such information to all consumers and feel that this will only result in the production of a fairer and more efficient internal market for all consumers throughout the european union.
mr president, i think it is a source of great regret for many of us who want to see the completion of the single market that it has not yet been completed. but, at the same time, if we want to take the peoples of our constituencies with us it is important that they have confidence in a single market and they have confidence as consumers. i think we have all received e-mails from our constituents concerned about the european city guide scam, where they have paid money to be listed in a directory when they had no idea that they were supposed to pay for that, or from consumers asking for better information or who have bought something on an online site in another country. we have also had the issue of consumers who have seen a product available in other countries but have been unable to buy it on their own market. surely it is time that we made sure that we complete the single market, as well as making sure that we give consumers better information and the right to redress any problems that they may have faced, especially when they face a problem buying something on a market in another country, in another eu member state. we have to restore confidence in the single market and we have to help all consumers.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the internal market scoreboard, as the scoreboard itself has proved to be a valuable tool in identifying key areas of improvement for member states with respect to the progress they are making in transposing internal market legislation. it is of concern that only 11 member states have reached the 1% transposition deficit target that was set by the european council itself. i support the rapporteur’s recommendations for the commission to continue producing reports on member states’ progress, and i further support his calls for member states to accelerate transposition and for there to be clearer reporting on infringement proceedings. it is important to continue to highlight areas that need greater attention to ensure that all eu citizens can benefit from the single market. the single market is the most effective tool we have for restoring growth across the eu in these current economically difficult times. given that this is the 20th anniversary of the single market, it is only right that we ensure that all internal market legislation is incorporated into national legislation across the eu as soon as possible and as consistently as possible.
mr president, i voted in favour of the busuttil report on the internal market scoreboard. this year we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the single market act and the organisation of the single market forum. although we have come a long way, it is still of vital importance that the legislation that is in place for businesses, as well as consumers, is effective. i backed this report and i welcome the paragraphs that call for a better exchange of best practice between member states and an improvement in cooperation between the commission and the member states, as i feel that this can only lead to a smoother functioning of the single market, which is, after all, the greatest prize of eu membership. we must also call for more synergy between national administrations in this area, but it is important, too, that we have more commitment from the national institutions in order to ensure that eu internal market directives are implemented on time and effectively, and that they are enforced.
mr president, in this age of austerity when governments across the world and across the eu are having to tighten their belts and cut spending, it is important that we come up with initiatives for growth, and give confidence to our electorate that we are seeking ways for growth to create jobs. at the last summit of eu leaders, in march this year, david cameron and leaders from 11 other countries sent a letter to mr van rompuy and mr barroso calling for a deepening of the single market and an opening up of the services market. surely it is time to promote initiatives which lead to growth in the services market? let us not forget that services account for more than 70% of eu gdp, and it is important that we push for the completion of the single market to help consumers and to help businesses across the eu. unfortunately the leaders of france and germany rejected this and just carried on with the same old way, trudging on, not looking for ways to grow. it is important that they wake up and listen to the leaders who signed that letter.
mr president, i cautiously welcome the report on the 2020 perspective for women in turkey as it recognises the progress that turkey has made in women’s rights and it also highlights the continued work that needs to be carried out from now on. it is encouraging to hear that turkey has newly appointed a minister for family and social policies who has stated that women’s rights and gender equality will be one of the government’s priorities. in addition to this, a special domestic violence bureau has been set up and i wish them well in their task. despite the progress that has been made, violence against women continues and so further efforts need to be made. it is disturbing to learn that 39% of turkish women have apparently encountered some form of physical violence during their adult lives. i therefore support the turkish government and call on it to adopt a zero tolerance policy towards violence against women. given that turkey is a candidate country to join the eu, it is even more important for it to meet the copenhagen criteria before eu membership is achieved.
mr president, i was delighted today to be able to vote on a report from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm). this is, for me, a rare occurrence, as so often these reports get bogged down in dogmatic political posturing and important issues are often lost in pointless rhetoric, but in this report we have some clear points being made, both in identifying turkey’s progress and in detailing where more work needs to be done. i welcome the tone of the report, which is neither hectoring nor lecturing, and identifies this as clearly a work in progress. i particularly welcome progress in turkey in the areas of health and education for women and children. the appointment of a minister for family and social policies is a good sign, and i have been very impressed by her strong public assurances that the turkish government is continuing to escalate the issue of women’s rights up its agenda. of course there is a long way to go, but we should be encouraging the turkish government to continue on this trajectory.
mr president, i voted in favour of the bozkurt report on the 2020 perspective for women in turkey. it is true that turkey has made progress recently in the field of women’s rights. i particularly welcome the appointment last year of fatma sahin as the new minister for family and social policies and the work that she has already done to underline the importance of women’s rights as issues for her government to take seriously. the establishment of a new bureau on domestic violence, responsible for arresting perpetrators and protecting victims, is, i believe, an extremely positive step. however, there is still room for improvement. i feel that the turkish government could take further action in order to prevent early forced marriages, as well as taking more action on the more recent issues of honour suicides or honour killings. but overall i do believe that this report takes all these matters into account satisfactorily so i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − it is, in many respects, laughable that the commission is considering the issuance of one-euro banknotes instead of coins. perhaps it is aware that the currency will soon be worth less than the particular alloy upon which it is minted. the question arises whether – in these speculative days of potential greek exit from the eurozone and single-currency collapse – all the euro member states would be duty-bound to abide by such legislation and potentially waste money on the issuance and circulation of a currency that may soon become obsolete. perhaps, however, investigating the issuance of paper money is, in fact, a tactic to increase the value of the euro coin. either way it seems utterly incommensurate that this matter should be discussed at present.
in writing. − while we spend our time discussing the denomination and technical specifications of euro coins for circulation, we ignore the elephant in the room which is the future of the euro area itself. the euro area faces a choice. if the leaders of euro area countries want to keep all 17 countries in the euro area, then there have to be fiscal transfers from the richer countries to the poorest. in other words, germany has to be prepared to cough up the funds to keep greece within the euro area, in the same way that my own constituency of london subsidises the poorer regions of the uk remaining in the sterling currency union. otherwise, the leaders have to prepare for the orderly departure of those members states that are unable to stay in the euro area. this does not mean the break up of the euro, but a smaller, more economically viable euro area. that means having an exit strategy for countries such as greece and others on how to re-introduce their own currencies and coins for circulation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which according to the rapporteur will lead to a reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify the administrative procedures involved and, by virtue of their greater scarcity, increase the value of each commemorative coin.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this report, which looks at the issuance of euro coins and notes. the report keeps the door open for consideration of different denominations of euro notes and sets the rules for commemorative coins.
in writing. − the uk and ireland fall largely outside the scope of title v of part three tfeu, and i expect that exemption to be retained after scottish independence. nevertheless, scotland will also retain the right to opt in to individual provisions under that title. i recognise that many important aspects in the war against serious organised crime and terrorism have added value to be gained by eu-wide cooperation. this report recognises the role of both member states and the eu in this field and on balance i was able to vote in favour.
in writing. − at a time of concerns over people trafficking and terrorism, no one in this chamber today can deny the need to support the need for better security for citizens of eu countries. however, any strategy for the eu’s internal security should be based on cooperation between member states and not on a ‘one size fits all’ eu strategy that overrides national strategies. while this report refers to several potential security threats such as organised crime, terrorism, cybercrime, corruption and challenges to border management, it also proposes more ‘europeanisation’ in the pursuit of better security for our citizens. unfortunately, this is typical of the debates in this house, where many meps believe that whatever the problem, the solution is more europe! instead, we should be stepping up cross-border cooperation not only within the eu but with non-eu countries. by working together we can at least try to make countries both inside and outside the eu safer places for citizens across the world.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which emphasises that freedom, security and justice are objectives that must be pursued in parallel, and expresses the belief that implementation of the eu charter must be the core of any fully-fledged internal security strategy while recalling that, in order to achieve freedom and justice, security must always be pursued in accordance with the principles of the treaties, the rule of law and the union’s fundamental rights obligations.
in writing. − i am pleased the rapporteur has been able to find many areas of compromise with other political parties to deliver a report which takes parliament’s role into account and updates the eu’s security strategy. the european parliament and national parliaments must be at the centre of the process for the definition of internal security priorities and strategies in the eu. a strong democratic dimension is badly needed and fundamental rights must always be the core of the internal security strategy of the eu.
in writing. − the very proposal to create an eu system of criminal law is chilling. by what authority can brussels be the arbiter of criminal law when it has been proven so democratically bereft and unaccountable to its 500 million citizens? it lays the foundations for the creation of a european police state – something which no single member of the public in any member state has ever voted for. we have common law in the uk and scotland whose safeguards are being undermined by the creation of eu criminal law; important safeguards such as our bill of rights and habeas corpus. our courts will have to abdicate their duty to serve to protect citizens against unjust accusation and imprisonment if they are forced to kowtow to unelected and undemocratic processes administered by the eu.
in writing. − the uk and ireland have the choice to opt in to individual measures proposed in terms of an eu-wide approach to criminal law, and i understand that the scottish government plays a full role in deciding when it is appropriate to do so. nevertheless, i consider that certain aspects of the de jong report would serve to undermine long-standing principles of scottish criminal law. accordingly i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − criminal law remains and should continue to remain the domain of national governments, and not the european union. at the same time, we should be looking at steps for better cooperation between governments and police forces to tackle cross-border crime including people trafficking, smuggling and terrorism. but it should be on the basis of cooperation and not coercion, and must respect the civil rights of citizens of eu countries. in 2005, seven eu countries signed the prüm convention to share fingerprint, dna and vehicle licence data, but under the german presidency in 2008 these measures were subsumed into the police and judicial cooperation provisions of eu law. unfortunately, the ever euro-fanatical labour government of the time in britain signed up to these changes, it was this sleight of hand that makes me suspicious of any discussions on this subject at the eu level. so mr president, eu attempts to fight cross-border crime should be based on a respect for cooperation, a respect for civil liberties and a healthy respect for national sovereignty.
in writing. − i believe the eu has to take a very careful approach when developing additional or reviewing existing criminal law provisions. its track record is not perfect, as has been aptly demonstrated by a group of academics, the european criminal policy initiative. they mentioned, inter alia, the use of many cross references in legal texts as a violation of the lex certa principle: legislation has to be clear-cut and easily understandable so that it becomes predictable for all whether an act amounts to a criminal offence or not. this holds even more so for directives, since these have to be transposed into national law and any lack of clarity can lead to diverging interpretations, which can easily enhance confusion instead of reducing it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which proposes mechanisms to facilitate inter-institutional cooperation in the field, ultimate respect for the eu charter and other international human rights instruments, and the creation of a human rights check.
in writing. − the united kingdom has already established a number of independent bodies and organisations to protect consumers against unscrupulous advertising, misleading product sales, and so forth. for example, the financial ombudsman regulates the financial sector, while the advertising standards authority determines whether advertising is accurate and appropriate. currently, the uk government is looking into the protection of minors from overtly sexualised consumerism and exposure to risks to their well-being. the office of fair trade oversees the protection of british consumers as a whole. legislation such as the unfair contract terms act 1977, the sale of goods act 1979, the consumer protection act 1987 and the electronic commerce regulations 2002 already exist to serve the consumer. some of the legislation is uk application of eu law. complaints are made to consumer direct, which provides legal advice and redirects individual complaints to the trading standards office for investigation. creating an entire stratum of european law muddies the waters, leaving both consumers and merchants at risk from excessive bureaucracy and a compensation culture. while i agree with the proposals set out in the report, it is my belief that the uk should be the only author of such regulations.
in writing. − this report quite rightly calls for a strengthening of vulnerable consumers’ rights whilst noting that this should be done in a proportionate manner. certain aspects of consumer law are currently reserved in the uk to the westminster parliament whilst others fall within the remit of the scottish parliament. much of consumer law is now regulated at eu level in the interests of the internal market’s smooth functioning. westminster’s role in scottish consumer law is therefore increasingly redundant – and should be brought to an end.
in writing. − i voted for this report and agree with the rapporteur that the creation of a strategy for strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, in order to permit their participation in the single market, contributes not only to the social inclusion of such consumers and to advancement toward a more just and tolerant society, but also to ensuring a more dynamic, safe and competitive internal market. however, this specific protection of vulnerable consumers should not, in any circumstances, lead to the creation of two different levels of protection.
in writing. − i was thoroughly pleased to support this report. the socialist rapporteur did an excellent job of highlighting the extensive work that national governments have still to do to ensure that vulnerable consumers are protected. i hope that this report is given the attention it deserves and that we begin to see a crackdown on misleading advertising across all the member states.
in writing. − consumers in the eu still lack sufficient protection; i believe more needs to be done to strengthen their rights, which is why i voted in favour of this report. the report suggests solutions for tackling common problems in sectors such as transport, finance and the internet, reflecting that the protection and promotion of consumer rights are at the heart of european policies. existing requirements on product information and product suitability do not do enough to protect vulnerable consumers, especially not the elderly. the report, which has my full support, calls for clear and simple information on products and services. current rules do not do enough to protect travellers, especially when there are delays or cancellations and fares that are difficult to understand can lead to some consumers paying three times more than others. it is important to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers, which is why i supported this report as it calls on the commission to take vulnerable travellers into account when revising eu passenger rights legislation.
in writing. − for once the commission seem to have the right idea about the euro – mint fewer coins. perhaps the commission should instead consider the possibility that the euro itself may soon become a commemorative coin symbolising the failures of an ideologically bereft supra-national organisation that fell apart. it is likely that within a year certain member states may have returned to their own currencies, thus rendering their nation-specific denomination of the euro eventually invalid. i would wholeheartedly implore that such countries do not mint any commemorative coins and seek to mint nationally-determined currencies instead.
in writing. − i voted for this report and hope the commission will respond to its call to conduct an impact assessment on the possible issuance of 1 and 2 euro banknotes.
in writing. − the internal market scoreboard once again highlights those areas in which member states are failing to properly implement eu legislation. the internal market is designed to benefit workers, consumers and businesses, and its smooth operating depends on legislation being implemented in a timely and equal manner. i support the conclusions of this report.
in writing. − delivering a single market for citizens and businesses does not stop at the creation of good legislation. it also entails adequate implementation and cross-border synergy between various national administrations. without such implementation business and citizens are not able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. in this respect the commission’s solvit network provides citizens and businesses with a timely and effective way of resolving problems caused by misapplication of single market rules.
in writing. − unfortunately, i was not able to support the epp amendment, which would completely change the way the eu legal system works. there must be more discussion and consideration of such a fundamental change to eu law. however, i congratulate the rapporteur on his work, as the report does a good job in highlighting the shortcomings of legislative transposition. i hope that all governments, including the uk government, will start to reduce the deficits to below the new target of 0.5%
in writing. − whilst i am a proponent of women’s rights internationally and believe in an equal and gender-balanced society, i am uncomfortable with the eu acting as an arbiter of rights and legislation in third countries. whilst the international community should act together to promote fairness and equality and protect the most vulnerable members of society, the eu, as a largely unelected, supranational undemocratic organisation should not be in a position to speak on behalf of all member states on the world stage. i understand that the potential accession of turkey to the eu requires the country to conform to certain standards and ideals. however i oppose turkey becoming a member state of the eu on various grounds and equally do not believe any new member states should be admitted, as i do not believe in the continuation of the eu in its present format. issues such as those laid out in the report must be addressed by the turkish government, yet i do not believe the eu should be the authority to hold turkey accountable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which deals with a number of important issues as turkey continues along the road to eu accession.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the turkish government to uphold and strengthen the principles of equality and women’s rights by adopting and amending its legislative framework, including the planned process for a new constitution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the rapporteur’s hard work. turkey has made encouraging progress on gender equality, and this important report will help to guide it in the areas on which there is further progress to be made.
in writing. − the citizens’ initiative offers the people of europe a new way of properly engaging with the eu's institutions. i welcome this report amending this house's rules in order to facilitate the new instrument.
in writing. − the citizens’ initiative will be a powerful tool that european citizens can use to identify issues to place on the eu’s agenda. it was first introduced in the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and then taken over by the lisbon treaty, with the aim of giving citizens powers of political initiative on a par with those already enjoyed by the council of ministers and the european parliament. its main aim is to provide citizens with a means to be heard by enabling them to refer various issues of interest to the european institutions. these issues might include problems which people encounter in their daily lives and which they feel are being ignored or with which no support is forthcoming. the citizens’ initiative will enhance the direct link between citizens and the institutions, ensuring that the eu institutions address specific issues that citizens feel are important. another aim of the citizens’ initiative is to encourage broader cross-border debates within the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which carefully plans the way the european citizens’ initiative will work in practice.
in writing. − the european citizens initiative (eci) aims to create more participatory democracy at eu level by allowing citizens to call directly on the commission to propose legislation in a particular area. should the initiative gain more than 1 million signatures parliament and the commission must organise a public hearing on the issue in parliament. this report, which i am fully in favour of, recommends that the committee most relevant to the topic with which the eci deals should be placed in charge of organising the public hearing and should ensure that the commission is adequately involved and represented at the hearing.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we are having yet another european summit. i make it the 22nd that we have had in the last two-and-a-half years. mr verhofstadt said it was the 18th but it would not be the first time that he has got his numbers wrong! i do not know what else mr van rompuy has done, but he has certainly been very good at calling summits. none of the others have made any material difference so why, we ask ourselves, should this one? the reason that they have all so far failed is that none of them has addressed the real problem which, of course, is the collapse of european competitiveness. i think all of us in this house have a common objective. we all, of course, want the old mantra of growth and jobs, yet we have very different views on how that should be achieved. for the socialists, across several groups in this house, only more government spending can create growth. i fundamentally disagree. the socialist vision of growth is an illusion created at the expense of borrowing and tax rises, and it is totally irresponsible in the current climate. as my favourite politician, margaret thatcher, once said, the problem with socialism is that eventually you run out of everybody else’s money. we cannot afford a return to the discredited socialist growth agenda of keynesianism dressed up as more investment. economic growth does not need state intervention. in fact, very often state intervention actually restricts growth. take, for example, the agency workers directive. this well-meaning piece of legislation, introduced through this house, has resulted in a fall in the number of temporary workers being employed in france. the working time directive actually stops people from working. in a crisis it is utterly immoral. so-called social protection legislation in the eu is failing to protect us from the worst social injustice of all, which is unemployment. we risk having the best protected workforce in the world, but no workers. more flexible labour markets are the way forward. eu leaders should ask which employment directive they can repeal immediately. we also need, as others have said, a bonfire of red tape. each piece of additional legislation acts like a pin in the body of our economy. it can survive a few, but eventually it will be killed by a thousand pinpricks. the commission’s inertia-driven ‘better regulation’ agenda should be replaced by a politically driven deregulation agenda, and this parliament can play a role here by spending more of our time considering how to repeal, refine and reform existing measures. the eu needs to do less and it needs to do it better. i have talked about what we can do less of. what can we do better? commissioners, the answer lies in the letter signed by 12 heads of government. they sent you a clear set of ideas for extending the single market, for pursing free-trade agreements, for a european research area, and no end of good proposals. sadly, the reaction from presidents barroso and van rompuy was disappointing. they continue to fall back on the europe 2020 agenda. that agenda is lacking because it tries to be all things to all men. it contains some things to appeal to a liberal conservative like me, it has parts to appeal to socialists like mr swoboda, and even parts to appeal to a social democrat like mr verhofstadt. there are probably no parts that appeal to nigel farage, but then again the commissioners are not miracle workers. europe 2020 will not work unless it learns the lessons of the failed lisbon strategy, which did not achieve its primary goal. my message to the commission is this: we need a strong, free-trade, pro-competition agenda from you. at the moment the commission is effectively rudderless. the letter showed you the way forward and yet you disregarded it. the reform that the eu needs will not come about from one additional dinner, but tomorrow’s meeting can make an important start. it should give the commission a clear message that it wants to see a free-trade, deregulatory and pro-market agenda. it should tell the commission to go away and rethink the next seven-year budget so that every euro focuses on added-value outputs, rather than simply increasing national contribution inputs. most importantly, it should place the single market at the heart of our economic recovery. unless we resolve our competitiveness crisis, we will never resolve the many other crises facing the eu. how many more dinners and summits will it take before we actually get some action that will make a difference? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i am not sure that mr lamberts’s figures are correct but it is certainly true that the uk has a very high debt legacy. it was caused by a socialist labour government; it was caused by too much spending. thankfully in the uk we now have a government that is actually taking some action to bring the deficit down, but i am afraid the problem lies over to your left, mr lamberts. talk to the socialists, they created the problem. the government which i support is helping to clear up that problem.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we are in the midst of an economic and increasingly humanitarian crisis and yet commission president barroso is not here. indeed herman van rompuy is not here either, not that it really matters because they are not prepared to listen to any debate or any argument. they are intent on pursuing their political dream of a united states of europe and are prepared to commit economic suicide for an entire continent. and tomorrow night mr van rompuy has called yet another summit at which he is going to present a strategy for growth and jobs. elected meps, representatives of the people of europe, from left and right, we have heard it all before. remember the euro itself was supposed to create growth and jobs and yet it is actively destroying both of those things. the remedy we are being offered is more of the same. i would suggest that the medicine is killing the patient and to increase the dosage is madness. do not listen to those who will tell you that the only alternative is for greece to stay in the euro. everyone is pushing this. david cameron and all the other leaders are saying that we must keep greece in the euro; if she leaves, the sky will fall in. it will not. there will be a few difficult weeks and then things will settle down. there will be a boom in tourism. investment will start to come back into greece. innovation will start to come back into greece as people start making products to beat expensive imports. indeed greece outside the eurozone may well prove to be an inspiration for spain, for portugal and for many other countries. we need to recognise that a terrible mistake has been made. we must resolve to put it right. we have got to give people hope because out there now is absolute despair. we all remember dimitris christoulas, the 77-year-old former pharmacist who shot himself dead outside the greek parliament, but he is just one of a growing humanitarian disaster. there have been huge increases in suicides in italy and in greece, particularly by people running small businesses who cannot see a way out of the problem. children are being left in increasing numbers outside the doors of churches because their parents cannot afford to feed them. our leaders are too callous to listen and care. you can do something about this. you can rise up and say – and i know from my conversations with you that many of you agree with me – that i am right. we have got to break up the euro. we have got to restore democracy. we have got to restore human dignity. we must ignore messrs barroso and van rompuy. they have been proved to be wrong. we must provide people with hope. (applause from the efd group) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would say to mr papanikolaou that a reintroduced drachma would probably be 50 to 60% lower than its current value in the euro, something like that. clearly i am not advocating that we move to a new fixed peg, i am advocating floating currency rates because history shows us that every time we try to fix currency pegs we get it wrong. the risk of course is that the cost of imports would rise, which is why i said that what it would also lead to is innovation in greece, as people started to make products to undercut the price of foreign imports. but i tell you what it would give: it would give greece a chance, because stuck inside the euro you are going to be literally destroyed.
mr president, our youth’s prospects are dying of bureaucracy and its weapon of choice, red tape. youth unemployment is a scourge that will affect europeans for generations. people who suffer unemployment in their early years subsequently tend to earn much less. they suffer deterioration of skills and future job instability. in spain, a staggering 46.4 % of young people are out of work. is it any coincidence that the states with the worst problems are members of the eurozone? the oecd has stated that the eurozone crisis is the biggest single threat to global recovery. the eurozone 17 will see their economy shrink by 1.9 % this year. in contrast both the uk and the us economies will grow. more than one in five young people across the european union as a whole are unemployed and figures released yesterday by the un suggest that this is set to get worse. uk businesses, both small and large, are crying out for less bureaucracy. tomorrow, eu leaders will meet in brussels to discuss jobs and growth. we can expect a self-congratulatory press release and a nice photograph, but we know by now what will happen. good money will be thrown after bad. nothing will change and, instead of stemming the red tape that kills jobs, the strangulation will continue.
mr president, we are seeing the unacceptable social costs of the austerity measures. we have to turn round our ailing economy in order to achieve a sustainable economy, but we cannot solve the problem by using the same policies which brought us here in the first place. in my own constituency in wales, youth unemployment is rising dramatically and women are losing jobs at an alarming rate, yet there is huge potential to build a thriving economy. we need an economy in which we can foster enterprise, combat inequality, create green jobs and support community and cooperative organisations. we need procurement models that are accessible to smaller businesses to help the local economy and create employment. we need to invest in improving housing, health and the environment: this will create millions of jobs and improve society. we have to look to the future and start refocusing investment, including the huge possibilities of the structural funds and the eib. we have to look at jobs which can put people back to work: sustainable jobs that create work for the long term.
mr president, europe is hurtling back into recession and worse. yet what do right-wing leaders across europe prescribe? more of the same medicine. when a patient is suffering, surely we do not want to cause more pain and more agony. we have a generation out of work. we have despair amongst our citizens and people taking to the streets. plan a is not working so where is plan b? we desperately need a plan to build for the future, a plan for jobs and growth and a plan to give hope for our young people. let us hope that the election of hollande will at last trigger a change of direction for europe. let us get this straight. despite what those on the right say, we are not calling just for more spending or for large deficits to be ignored. we are calling for the end to the dogma of austerity in favour of a more balanced plan, as in the us obama has a balanced deficit reduction while still creating jobs and generating growth. let us hope that hollande can show the leadership that cameron, merkel and sarkozy have so dismally failed to deliver.
mr president, every time the european union faces a self-made crisis, the response is always: more europe. the single currency has created a colossal mess, yet what do we hear? a call for deeper integration and a demand for eurobonds that would intertwine economies so intricately that there would be little point in ever conducting general elections again. on top of this, there are cries for more legislation to promote growth and investment. let me tell you something: eu legislation has stifled growth, and the single currency scares off investors. the eu is undemocratically, wilfully and ruefully forcing greek people onto the streets at the same time as it drains economies across the eu. and yet somehow you have the audacity to tell us the solution is more europe. history will prove that you are wrong.
mr president, if you wanted to help an individual out of debt, would you reduce his hours and his pay? no? then why is the eurozone doing exactly the same to its debtor countries? austerity does not pull countries out of debt, it increases the burden of debt by contracting the economy and reducing government revenues. president hollande might understand that much, but not that the euro is part of the problem. infrastructure projects have been suggested; i would agree as long as they have been rationally assessed to enrich the communities in which they are situated. so is the answer for all eurozone countries to guarantee the debts of the more profligate by backing eurobonds? more debt is not the answer to existing debt. quantitative easing, if controlled, directed and delayed, would be infinitely preferable. all states must embrace the principle that what is physically possible should be financially possible. if it is not, then there is something wrong with the financial system.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i welcome the contribution from mr busuttil. i hope that we can all, as one house, vote in favour of denouncing homophobia. homophobia blights and destroys lives; it destroys the lives of those who actually practice it, as well as those who experience it. hate crimes, homophobic crimes and transphobic crimes scar our continent. as madam reding said, that young man in brussels died for the simple reason that he was a homosexual. the laws being enacted in moldova, in ukraine and in russia are a step backwards. they are not a step forward towards understanding and celebrating diversity or people, but rather a step towards saying that, in order to have the protection and the respect of states and institutions, you must conform to a very narrow stereotype. madam president, it makes absolutely no sense. two twins born to proud parents grow up looking the same, behaving the same, but one wishes to declare that she or he is homosexual and the other heterosexual. for that simple reason the child that was loved and protected by that state and by its institutions is immediately denied the equal protection and support of the state. they are even denied education that tells them that it is indeed okay to be who they truly are and that others in history have been exactly the same. there are people in the european parliament and other parliaments, and presidents and prime ministers. but no, we suffocate people with oppression and take away information and education that can help them become the unique individual that they were born to be and the unique individual that deserves to love and to be loved. yes, mr busuttil, i absolutely agree with you that we must respect the limits of our competence. i do not want us to start amending what we have agreed, but we must not limit our aspirations for other member states. that is extremely important. i do think that if we do not name these countries, we cover them in a cloak of anonymity and we encourage others to join them by bringing in laws which are homophobic and which seek to treat people unequally. madam president, madam commissioner, let me finish on this. i can see at least one person sat in this house who has experienced homophobia. i too, as an openly gay man, have experienced homophobia, but very, very rarely. why? because i was given the benefit of a family and a society and education that supported me so that i could become who i am and to be proud of who i am. that aspiration and that opportunity must be given to every individual of the european union and beyond. thank you for your indulgence.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, as george weinberg once said: the roots of homophobia are fear, fear and more fear. as people begin to fear for their economic security it is important that we do not allow those fears to grow and manifest themselves in discrimination or in the dehumanisation of any group of people. our progress towards building a more tolerant society should not be allowed to go into reverse gear. of course, we all have different views as to what role the eu can play. personally, i believe that the eu has a limited role in social policy, but it is a stark reality that some european nations have moved faster towards equality. and let us not forget that many started their journey a long time after others. however, i believe that it is important that we stand united today to say that it is a fundamental value of our continent that all people deserve humanity, dignity, personhood and rights, regardless of their sexual orientation. nothing less, madam president, is acceptable to me. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, would you join me in calling for the conservative-led coalition to introduce gay marriage at its earliest possible convenience within the lifetime of this parliament.
blue-card answer. – my response to that is that the coalition government, i am pleased to say, is going to use its relationships with other countries to push for unequivocal support for gay rights and for uk civil partnerships to be recognised internationally. it is also currently consulting on how to introduce same-sex civil marriage.
madam president, i was delighted that ilga has rated the uk as the best country in europe for respecting the human rights of lgbt people. i cannot claim that all of the credit for this belongs to the coalition government of the last two years, as we are of course building on previous work, mr cashman. however, one clear new development which we are taking forward is equal marriage. i agree, of course, with mr busuttil that family marriage laws are a national responsibility, but there is an eu dimension when a gay married couple moves to another country where they lose their civil status and legal rights, including parental rights. but for all too many lgbt people in europe, and even in the eu, the discrimination and prejudice they face is crudely homophobic, nasty and brutish, to the point not only of hate speech, but violence and murder. i, like others, strongly welcome the support of the epp under the leadership of simon busuttil for this resolution. the progress we have made in britain is based on cross-party agreement. it is not so long ago that we had a law against the so-called promotion of homosexuality, known colloquially as ‘section 28’, and now we are on the verge of equal marriage. stuff happens, progress is possible.
madam president, as an openly gay person myself, i agree with virtually everything that has been said in this chamber this afternoon, except probably mr posselt’s speech. my concern, however, is that we have heard all these grand words condemning homophobia here, but what about practising what you preach? i have been the victim of two homophobic incidents since i have been a member of this chamber, and parliament simply has not bothered to act. if you are going to tell other countries, especially third countries, what to do, at least first practise what you preach. fortunately, as baroness ludford has said, i live in a country that has been reported to be one of the best places – or the best place – in the world to be gay. i count myself quite fortunate. unfortunately there are many other people in the world who cannot say the same thing. yet there is a football tournament on our doorstep in ukraine – which will be held jointly with poland – and many members of this house will be travelling to ukraine as representatives of some organisation or other, or representatives of the european union, while today the uk foreign office has put a warning out to gay people to be careful travelling to ukraine. why should a single member of this house or the european union go to ukraine? should the european union as a whole not be boycotting the tournament if that country cannot protect citizens?
on behalf of the alde group. – (microphone switched off) … of the world have been devastated, destroyed by up to 97% in recent decades. others say that actually the stocks are quite healthy and that we can carry on as we are with no problem at all. there is a plan here to try to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2022 and a restoration of biomass. this is a credible target. if we can indeed achieve that for fish stocks across the whole of the european union, across the world, then we will be well pleased. the control measures that icat is introducing, the rules and regulations, are on paper as good as you will see anywhere. they are, in fact, tighter than those in place anywhere else. but this, of course, is not an ordinary fish. this is a fish, as the rapporteur has said, which can command prices of up to eur 500 000 for a single fish. that means that every method that we try to put in place to control fishing activity will be circumvented if it can be circumvented. organised crime may be involved, as the money that is involved in this industry is just huge. that is why quotas are being exceeded, why there have been illegal catches and cases of massive under-reporting and falsification of documents over the years. even now, the pew environment trust is saying that, looking at the most recent figures from across the world, it is quite clear from the amount of world trade taking place that the quotas for the mediterranean and the atlantic bluefin tuna – quotas that in theory represent the maximum that can be caught – are being greatly exceeded. well, i suppose that this is a test: can we in practice ensure that bluefin tuna are protected and survive and that we are able to recover the species, or will we see it eliminated for the sake of greed? well, what can we say? we are putting in the measures, we are calling for the maximum criminal penalties to be put in place to enforce those measures. but we will see as time passes whether we are successful or not.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, with regard to the sale of a bluefin tuna at the beginning of this year in the fish market in tokyo, referred to by both chris davies and mr romeva i rueda, the fish in question weighed 270 kilos and was sold for eur 575 000, that is eur 2 000 a kilo. that shows that what chris davies was saying is absolutely right. however, i have to correct him, as the average price for bluefin tuna is about usd 10 000, or the equivalent in euros. bluefin tuna are prized for their red, meaty flesh by sushi eaters, and the eastern atlantic stock of bluefin tuna has been plundered to the point where it was almost listed as an endangered species in 2009. this, of course, met with fierce opposition from japan, which consumes 80% of the world’s catch of bluefin tuna. such is the value of this iconic fish that it is estimated that around a third of the eastern atlantic and mediterranean stock of bluefin tuna is being sold on the black market. this is, therefore, a hugely lucrative industry that often involves gangsters and other criminals. that is why the romeva i rueda report is so important. the bluefin tuna stocks have been slowly recovering due to the diligence of the european fisheries agency in vigo, but more needs to be done. that is why we are calling for a further reduction on the annual total allowable catch, with a tightening up of controls and further measures to reduce fleet capacity. of course, eu countries are not the only ones fishing in the mediterranean basin, and that is why we need to see the provisions of the iccat fully implemented, with an end to rule-bending and an end to the impunity for illegal fishing that has led to decades of over-exploitation.
in writing. – the history of management of the bluefin tuna fishery is long, complicated and, thus far at least, not crowned with success. though the stock has been fished for millennia, the problems began in earnest in the 1990s, when the practice of caging bluefin was introduced in order to fatten them up for the japanese market. japanese market demand was met through an uncontrolled – and, in the case of the eu, heavily subsidised – expansion in the size of the purse-seine fleet targeting the mediterranean stock. the complexity of the fishery and the need for constant vigilance on the part of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) are demonstrated by the volume of regulation. during the past 20 years, 64 management measures have been adopted, of which 13 are still in effect. two are of particular importance. the recovery plan was first adopted in 2006, when it was 14 pages long, including annexes. it was amended in 2008, 2009 and again in 2010, by which time it had swollen to 30 pages. there is also a catch documentation scheme, adopted in 2007 and amended in 2008 and 2009. i hope the iccat bluefin recovery plan can succeed where, so far, we have failed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i fully support the initiative undertaken by the commission to secure better investment rules and relations between the eu and china. however, my support depends on the following conditions: the securing of appropriate market access for eu investment in china – and we have heard about that from mr rinaldi – and the establishment of appropriate rules to attract support and chinese investment into the european union. i think it is important to note that, while caution felt towards china can be justified, we must stop seeing china purely as a threat to our growth and recognise the opportunities that a strong china-eu relationship can bring. this is particularly true when it comes to fostering new partnerships in the development of new-generation energy, technology, etc. i know, commissioner, we have had our disagreements about huawei, but it is a company which has invested tremendously in europe, and i see that as a huge opportunity for the european union. discrimination in trade practices should not be tolerated, and should not give rise to a tit-for-tat mentality that simply leads to greater imbalances. a shift away from openness will hinder the development of any mutually beneficial relationships and as you know, commissioner, as a believer in the free market, i believe openness should underpin all trade agreements. i hope that more open, transparent trade relations will develop, and that these will lead to a greater respect for the rule of law, especially in the field of international trade. commissioner, the commission is the guardian of the treaty. it is in your power to propose regulations to stop or control dumping, to control standards and quality. mr winkler mentioned something very important, a great problem for us: the situation of counterfeiting. we have a piece of legislation coming up, acta, which will help, and you have my full support in your position on that. i know it is difficult but let us hope that we can stop counterfeiting. it is very important.
mr president, the eu continues to provide china with development aid despite its economic expansion. i hope the chinese are grateful. well, if imitation is the sincerest form of flattery i suppose they are: 85% of all pirated goods seized in the eu in 2010 came from china. the west has inflicted much of the harm itself, as nearly all of china’s export trade has been supplied by companies established with western technology and expertise to compete with our industries and throw our workers on the scrap heap. in the words of the committee on industry, there is a ‘temptation for european enterprises to relocate their operations to china in order to cut their costs and increase their profits, to the detriment of the eu workforce’. the countries of europe must act to protect their manufacturing and the jobs of their peoples. the problem is that eu countries, individually and collectively, have embraced the economic ideology of globalism, while china is, quite understandably, pursuing a policy of economic nationalism. a policy of surrender at any cost will never be a match for a policy of victory at every cost.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, at a time when we are all struggling with rising unemployment and falling exports, i understand the need for access to new markets for european companies, and i understand the need and desire to support the commission in its efforts to achieve this. however, the european union has always fought, and will always fight, for more than merely its economic interests abroad. our treaties commit us to supporting democracy, human rights and environmental protection – not just on paper, but in practice – in everything we do, both within the union and through our external relations. colombia is a country where deforestation, water pollution and biodiversity loss remain serious problems. the colombian government has introduced environmental legislation but, as the commission’s own sustainable impact assessment has shown, the capacity to properly enforce this is lacking. ratifying the free trade agreement (fta) at this point, without proper environmental enforcement in place, will result in increased pressure, more damage to the environment and more destruction to the livelihoods of rural population groups in colombia. paragraph 6 of this oral question requires a thorough response from the commission. it must spell out the steps that it will take together with the colombian government to safeguard the natural environment, before this fta comes into force. we have commitments, too, that civil society groups will help monitor the fta, so we must ensure that those groups are free to speak out and that they represent the peoples most at threat from development, especially the indigenous peoples of the forests. if we are to be a leader in high human and environmental standards throughout the world, we must lead with really binding resolutions, and with clear and strong actions to safeguard core european values. i will support this fta only when i see those actions coming into force. until then i cannot support a treaty where actions on the environment and human rights remain just an aspiration.
mr president, i share the objectives of many in this debate who wish for an end to the conflict and to human rights abuses in colombia. however, in deliberating on the draft free trade agreement, i ask colleagues to base our assessment not on oft-repeated commitments, but on actual results in securing convictions for the perpetrators of human rights abuse in colombia – in what, according to the united nations, is a country with an impunity rate of more than 94%. to the commissioner, who tells us again tonight of undoubted improvement, i say that i agree there has been an improvement in language. how does he respond, however, to the international committee of the red cross which says that last year human rights violations got worse in colombia, or to the prosecutor of the international criminal court who says this is one of three countries in the world with the worst levels of international crime? on the proposed action plan, i pay tribute to catherine bearder and the amendment she is putting forward: i hope we will support it. but i ask my friend mr lange, and all the members of the house, to recognise that the american national trade union federation says the colombian government has failed to comply with their action plan, so europe must do better – not simply by ensuring benchmarks which are really binding, but also through the same dispute mechanism for human rights as for trade complaints, and crucially we must see concrete implementation before, not after, parliamentary ratification. finally, three weeks ago after taking part in a demonstration, daniel aguirre piedrahita, the general secretary of the colombian sugar cane workers’ union, was assassinated in cold blood, leaving a wife and three young daughters. he is one of 61 trade unionists assassinated since president santos came to power, so i ask all colleagues, in dealing with this issue, to show proper respect for those who have suffered most.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, a financial transaction tax sounds like a very good idea, does it not? it plays well politically, and we can hit those greedy bankers, whom we all hate in public while we shovel money into their pockets in private. however, i do not think it is quite going to work out that way. all taxes are passed on to customers at the end of the day – sorry everybody, but that is just how it works – so again it will be the little people who pick up the tab. it will be savers, it will be pensioners and it will be ordinary folk who pick up the tab for this tax, not the greedy fat-cat bankers that you are trying to get at. it is interesting, when you look at the small print, to see they are saying that some of the money raised can perhaps go towards saving future failed banks. so we know – we concede, do we not? – that more banks are going to fail. we know this because we have the same ridiculous, fractional-reserve banking system, the same crooked, money-printing, criminal behaviour at the central banks, and so on and so forth. so nothing has changed. this is another strong signal to bankers and politicians to continue the theft. but beware those who think that taxing london is a risk-free game – and we mean london don’t we? when it comes to financial services, other eu countries are mickey mouse. financial services account for 14% of uk gdp, and the uk contributes gbp 50 million pounds a day to this crumbling institution. do not kill the goose that lays your golden eggs! zurich, geneva, new york and hong kong are licking their lips wondering what piece of glorious stupidity we will come up with next. an ftt is a special tax, so what next? a special tax on sunshine holidays in spain; high fashion in paris; luxury cars in germany; mobile phones in finland; and perhaps a justifiably special tax on dreadful flat-pack furniture from sweden? it is coming to your street next! the greedy bureaucrats just want your money. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr bloom, you say you are very concerned about the ftt. so am i. could you explain why you failed to turn up to vote in your committee when the ftt was first voted on? the result of the vote was 22 to 22, and you were not in the room. you could have stopped it.
blue-card answer. – how dare you! you – the british conservative party – transferred the regulation of the city of london to this place, and you fiddle about in your silly little committees having betrayed my country. you scoundrel!
blue-card answer. – mr maňka, no, the problem we have is fractional-reserve banking, which means that banks lend money that they do not have, and that central banks and politicians print money, degrading currency. that is your problem. it is not regulation, it is not taxation. it is because of criminal behaviour, frankly, at the world’s central banks. until that stops, nothing is going to change. there are a lot more bank failures coming down the road, believe me.
blue-card question. – mr president, could mr gauzès say whether he would favour an ftt for eurozone countries only? i say this because the uk has already indicated that it will veto an eu-27 ftt. in fact, the swedish, cypriot and maltese governments have said they do not want one either, while the irish, italian and luxembourg governments have said they only want an eu-27 tax, rather than a eurozone country tax. could mr gauzès explain how this can go ahead when there is so much opposition in the council?
mr president, picture a spanish home buyer paying an extra eur 2 000 on an average mortgage, a german pensioner losing 4% return on his equity options investments and a french sme facing a 90% cost increase for foreign-exchanged hedging. i am not describing the consequences of predatory bank practices or an external economic shock. i am simply illustrating what proponents of a european ftt are willing to inflict on their own constituents in pursuit of a misguided attempt to make someone, anyone, pay for the financial crisis of 2008. it is no secret that the uk stands to lose the most from the imposition of such a tax, but i am not here to argue against the ftt as a brit, but as a european concerned about the welfare of our economy, and the future wealth of european citizens. ever since this tax’s inception, the discussion around the ftt has not been an objective, evidence-based one. instead, the commission, and some in this parliament, have pretended that the effects of the tax would be negligible, when they are not, that the tax would be just, when it is not, and that it would be internationally viable, when, thankfully, it is not. it is high time that we were honest about the true detrimental effects of this tax on european savers, the european economy and, in fact, financial stability. these are dire economic times and we have an awful lot of work still to do before we can rightfully claim to have made financial markets safer and more beneficial to the real economy. making our voters believe, however, that this tax will get us any closer to fairness and growth is untruthful and a distraction from our massive workload in the area of financial services. let me give you just one example of how we are pre-empting and improving upon the objectives of the ftt in other dossiers. in the course of the review of the markets in financial instruments directive, we are discussing ways of dealing with any risks posed by high-frequency trading (hft) which are more sophisticated and effective than any ftt could ever be. i call upon my colleagues to follow the council’s lead in rejecting a european ftt and to leave it up to individual member states to pursue such a tax if they feel it necessary. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i would suggest that mr martin actually read the 20 annexes that the commission produced in its first assessment. there is a lot of detail in there that demonstrates some of the detrimental effects that this tax could have, and i would urge him to speak to some of those corporates, those european headquartered individual companies, who come to me and tell me that the average number of transactions for each hedge they put on means 13 transactions that a bank will have to put on. that is 26 times the tax; that is a phenomenal burden to put on a hedge for a business transaction. we have just exempted corporates for clearing their transactions for hedging within the emir dossier and within the crd dossier. why on earth would we now want to impose a tax upon them when we are actually trying to stimulate the economy?
mr president, we are about to allow the eu to finance itself directly from taxpayers’ pockets without negotiations with anybody, not even the council. we cannot think that giving the eu tax-raising powers without normal democratic scrutiny is acceptable. it is not. in addition, the legal argument on which this house is trying to base the establishment of an ftt is incorrect. the different sizes of the financial industry in some member states are not an indication of distorted competition, but rather due to historic developmental differences. this should never have been interpreted as a reason for tax harmonisation. furthermore, the commission proposes to tax both sides of the transaction. if one of the parties is not a signatory to the treaty, then the other party would have to raise both amounts. what would then happen to the uk veto? it would be useless. the uk taxpayer would end up paying the tax on all transactions that involved member states who have signed the treaty. however, it would not enjoy a reduction in its eu contribution as it has not signed up to this treaty. of course this house and the commission must know that as long as the ftt does not become a global tax, the financial sector could move to other, more tax-friendly locations. but they feel the eu can afford the loss of this very important industry. it cannot. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – ms andreasen, you have just spoken against the ftt. could you explain why your colleague godfrey bloom was not in committee, nor were you, as his substitute member, when this was first voted on in committee two years ago? the vote went 22 to 22. you, ukip, could have stopped it. you were also not in critical votes last week where votes were again lost by just one member.
blue-card answer. – i have shared my time between the committee on budgets, the committee on budgetary control, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on petitions, the committee on the economic and financial crisis and the policy challenges committee. sometimes these committees happen to have meetings at the same time. in the last vote on the financial transaction tax i sent mr paška to vote in my place, with my voting list, so in fact my vote was there, and i was represented by somebody else.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have a question of substance. ms andreasen, can you explain why internationally high-growth countries that have an ftt – hong kong, south korea, brazil, taiwan, south africa, india – have not all had financial services locating elsewhere, and nor has the tax harmed their high economic growth or driven down gdp? what is your answer to that?
blue-card answer. – firstly you would have to prove to me that in fact there has not been any relocation away from these countries. i am not sure. i do not have any proof. on the other hand, maybe these countries do not have a similar tax to finance their own budgets. the uk has a stamp duty which it will need to use to finance its own budget. once this ftt is imposed on the uk, i do not know how the uk is going to finance its budget.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would just like to ask the following. mr guerrero salom mentioned that the tax would prevent speculation. i am a little curious as to how this tax is supposed to actually differentiate between those who are speculating in the market and those who are actually investing for their future. the pensioners that we have talked about really will suffer as much as, if not more than, those that you claim are speculating. it is very easy to see how stamp duty in the uk is being avoided by a very large number of people. the americans are actually benefiting through american depository receipts, where the listings are actually going out there instead. can you tell me how you are going to prevent this?
blue-card question. – mr schmidt, would you not accept that the design of the ftt is fundamental, and therefore would you not accept that the swedish model failed because it was based on the residence principle, which we are correcting by putting in the issuing principle, and that this is why there was relocation outside sweden?
mr president, in the context of a deepening european debt crisis, it is almost beyond comprehension that some eu leaders, and many in this house, believe the imposition of a financial transaction tax to be the stimulus for much-needed growth in stricken economies in europe. i believe that the financial sector must bear its part in bringing about debt reduction and supporting growth in the economy. however, what has not been recognised here is that the root of the problem is a common currency, with no flexibility for weaker economies, and an explosion of debt, condemning young people to the hopelessness of unemployment and leading to a democratic deficit in europe, with a move away from the centre towards political extremes. an ftt aimed at raising own resources for european institutions will be a raid on the tax base of the united kingdom, where, ultimately, small and medium-sized enterprises and ordinary working people will bear the cost.
mr president, in the uk, my own member state, two-thirds of the public back a ‘robin hood tax’ on the financial services sector. why? because the financial services sector is largely undertaxed: it enjoys an eur 18 billion per annum vat exemption. it should pay a fairer rate of tax, particularly since its return to profitability, and it continues to pay out large bonuses. of course we prefer a global financial transaction tax, but we have been prepared, unlike the uk government, to engage constructively in the debate for an eu ftt. it is clear that it has to be workable, it has to be effective, it has to be simple to collect and it has to minimise tax avoidance. a well-designed ftt could help tackle speculation, and it could help stabilise the economy away from short-term profit towards serving the real economy. it would raise money to meet global development and poverty challenges and climate change commitments. it could raise revenue to meet our national priorities for investing in our economic future and youth employment. it would be a bonus if an ftt could tackle the kind of hedge fund activity which last week saw a us tax-exile hedge fund manager in the cayman islands paid eur 400 million from the bailout cash we paid to the greek government to pay its bondholders. frankly, if j.p. morgan can carelessly afford to lose eur 2 billion – even maybe eur 7 billion by recent estimates – they can afford to pay an ftt. i want to be clear, though. tax policy requires unanimity between all eu member states, and the eu does not have tax-raising powers to allocate resources for an ftt. we will continue to campaign for the global ftt and to engage in this, but we will not vote for an ftt that is prioritised for own resources.
mr president, i feel like a broken record. i mean, how many times does a girl need to say no? yes, i am worried about high-frequency traders. yes, i want to stop bailing out banks, but these traders will not pay this tax, they will leave. the people who pay will be those who cannot leave: people saving for their pensions, insurance premiums that we all face will go up, companies that need money to invest and grow will find it more difficult to get that money and savers who want to make that investment will lose out. by all means mirror the uk’s stamp duty, it is easy to collect and at least it is on the higher yielding shares, or mirror the bank levy or consider a transaction charge. but this tax will not work and it will be vetoed by at least five eu countries. so let us just stop wasting time and say no.
rapporteur. − mr president, i shall begin with some ‘thank yous’, firstly to the secretariat of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), and in particular tamás lukácsi for his assistance in drafting this report. i would also like to thank commissioner šefčovič and minister wammen from the danish presidency for their willingness to engage at an early stage in this process. their contributions in the afco committee and to me personally have been very welcome, and i look forward to working further with both of them in order to reach an agreement which is satisfactory to all the european institutions. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups for the very cooperative atmosphere in which we have negotiated this report. this is an ambitious report and a very timely one since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. back in 1995 when i was the rapporteur for this parliament on the maastricht treaty, we successfully advocated elevating parliament’s ability to hold a committee of inquiry to a treaty-based function. since then, the powers of the committee have not changed. committees of inquiry are a tool for parliament to investigate allegations of maladministration in the implementation of eu law. in their investigations, committees can speak to individuals involved and request documents to see if there have been any breaches of law or elements of corruption in the administration of the law. i would like firstly to outline the importance of this role for parliament in exercising its supervisory powers, before getting to the substance of the report and to the procedure. there have been three committees of inquiry in the history of this parliament: one on the community transit regime, one on bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) and, more recently, one on equitable life, the uk life assurance company. the equitable life inquiry concluded that parliament lacked the ability to get to the truth because we could not speak to the people involved, we could not ensure access to documents and there were no consequences for false testimony. it is perhaps not surprising that the last inquiry committee struggled to uncover the truth. we have gained significant new powers in the european parliament over the last two decades, but our role in democratic scrutiny now needs to be brought into the 21st century. since the lisbon treaty, parliament is on an equal footing with the council in its role as a legislator, and has significant powers of budgetary control, but in the area of democratic scrutiny we lack the tools to uncover the truth. in the same way that most national parliaments have the tools at their disposal to uncover fraudulent implementation of national law, it is the european parliament’s responsibility to investigate maladministration of eu law on behalf of european citizens. fundamentally, a committee of inquiry tries to uncover the truth about the past. as that great philosopher bob dylan said: ‘truth is an arrow and the gate is narrow that it passes through.’ it is not an easy task to inquire into the past and uncover the truth, and, without the ability to access documents and individuals, parliament cannot perform this democratic duty effectively. it is a role which parliament takes seriously and has not used frivolously. with only three committees in the lifetime of the parliament, there should be no concerns that this tool will be overused. so why are we reforming the rules now? firstly, because a much-needed update to the rules has been pending since the conclusion of the equitable life inquiry and the recommendations that it made. secondly, because the lisbon treaty has elevated the rules on committees of inquiry into a regulation. in fact, under article 226 of the lisbon treaty, parliament has the unusual role of policy initiator. we are acting here in what is usually the commission’s role, and my report is the policy proposal to which the council and commission must give their consent. there are three important elements of a european parliament committee of inquiry which are addressed in my proposed reforms. the first is the ability to speak directly to the individuals involved in the issue. a major problem identified in the equitable life inquiry was the inability to request specific individuals. instead, in many cases, the institutions in question would send a spokesman. i think it is vital that, when we are looking into decisions which were taken, we are able to speak directly to those who were involved, or to the experts on a particular issue. the second issue is access to documents and the ability of a committee of inquiry to see documents which are directly related to the inquiry. thirdly, the ability of a committee of inquiry to visit the member state and to see for itself the context of the investigation is vital. now we know from past inquiries that without any form of sanction for refusal to testify, for false testimony or for bribery, the committee lacks teeth and can lack legitimacy. what we are proposing in this report is to give the european parliament the same basis for sanctions that exists in many member states, and my report was based on very detailed studies of national parliaments’ committees of inquiry. i think it is also important to note that, of course, parliament is not a court. any sanctions for false testimony or bribery would have to be enacted by the member states under an agreement reached in this reform. with regard to the final conclusions of a committee of inquiry, however, the remit is simple: to uncover the truth. we do not hand down sanctions, we do not hand down sentences, we do not take any legal action. that would be for others, based on our recommendations. i look forward to working with the other institutions and with my colleagues in finding a satisfactory conclusion to this report and i am optimistic that the three institutions can agree.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, scrutiny by this parliament is important. our job is not only to pass legislation – something which we do rather too much of – but also to ensure that taxpayers’ money is spent wisely, both by the commission and by the member states. my predecessor in the south-west of england was neil parish, now the member of parliament for tiverton and honiton. he was instrumental in setting up the parliamentary inquiry into the foot-and-mouth outbreak in the uk in 2001. that inquiry revealed how incompetently the last labour government handled that crisis. this reform shows how inquiries should be undertaken. it contains some good parts but goes too far in granting powers to this parliament. for example, it grants parliament the power to summons individuals and the power to sanction those who refuse to attend. the treaties do not grant us these powers and in my view we would be overreaching ourselves by approving this report. i do not support the provisions relating to officials of national governments. civil servants have a duty to provide their best advice to ministers and, having done so, to carry out those ministerial decisions. this proposal risks undermining that trust and subverting ministerial accountability, which is rightly judged by national parliaments. if these proposals are to achieve anything it should be to introduce greater accountability to the european institutions. it is here that parliament should concentrate its efforts by bringing the bureaucrats in brussels under democratic oversight and control.
mr president, inquiring into executives should be one of the central functions of any parliament. however it is implicit that each parliament’s right should relate to its own executive and not somebody else’s. the european parliament should indeed have right to question eu officials, from the humblest right up to people like mr barroso who are not famed for their humility. however, there is no reason for this right of inquiry to extend to member states. that is and should be the function of member states’ parliaments. the committee would be able to call specific civil servants from member states to give evidence and even obtain judicial assistance. civil servants must at least have the right conferred by the rapporteur’s own amendment 18 to withhold information that they would be able to withhold from their own member state’s inquiries. furthermore civil servants must be protected from the dilemma of being given contradictory instructions about whether they should conceal or reveal information.
mr president, i agree that parliament does not need or seek quasi-judicial powers, but we need for all that a serious capacity to be inquisitive about complex political controversies. i look forward to the trialogue. we need to address the unequal treatment that the draft places on commission and national officials, but we should also seek to reach an agreement on meaningful remedies for the conclusions drawn by an inquiry.
colleagues, before voting i would like to point out that today is the anniversary of a tragic event. twenty years ago, on 23 may 1992, the anti-mafia judge giovanni falcone, his wife francesca morvillo and their bodyguards vito schifani, rocco dicillo and antonio montinaro died in the capaci massacre. this morning a ceremony commemorating mafia victims was held in palermo, attended by president giorgio napolitano and prime minister mario monti. i would ask the house to join in this commemoration to honour the example and commitment shown by judge falcone, and to honour the memory of all those who have died in the fight for truth and justice. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) – before the vote:
mr boştinaru, thank you for raising that point. your statement is noted and the house has expressed its solidarity with the victims and with the families of those victims.
mr president, as we are giving our condolences, can we please express our solidarity with all those people wrongly imprisoned by virtue of the european arrest warrant?
rapporteur. − mr president, yes, in order to allow further discussions with the council and the commission, i would like to propose the delay of the vote on the draft legislative resolution. i hope the house will accept that on the basis that we have made significant progress before today and today during the debate. i think that the three institutions can come together and reach agreement on this dossier.
mr president, i voted for this report because i am pleased to see some action being taken on bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the status of this stock has been controversial for many years. maybe this is a rare example of the situation of a specific fish stock improving. i do hope so. but it also highlights a major problem for those of us faced with the task of developing fishing policy which is both economically and environmentally sustainable. i refer, of course, to the difficult issue of data collection and validation, which is addressed in this report. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas has clearly taken a very precautionary approach. i welcome this but i believe that its initial proposals were too hardline, so i am very happy to accept and support the report from the committee on fisheries, which takes a slightly softer line, although it still means that we are watching and that we will take action in the future.
mr president, i can draw parallels between the evolution of the recovery plan for bluefin tuna and those for other atlantic species, notably cod: reduced quotas, spawning area closures and tighter enforcement will sound familiar to many fishermen. whilst it is imperative that we move towards sustainable fisheries, we must pay heed to the lessons which can be learnt from recovery plans applied elsewhere. if i might quote from the commission’s own scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries in their evaluation of the recovery plan for cod, overall stecf concludes that the plan is not delivering reduced fishing mortality and, additionally, in many areas does not have stakeholders’ support. a plan with stakeholders’ support is more likely to succeed because the stakeholder actions are needed to contribute to its success. support of the plan also should in theory lead to their acceptance of responsibility to fulfil their obligations. these lessons are equally applicable to bluefin tuna.
mr president, i too voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report. after indiscriminate depletion of bluefin stocks over many years, the species mercifully has recovered its numbers now. this view has been corroborated by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, a respected authority on tuna stocks, which has recommended a strict management plan for bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean seas, areas of particular commercial fishing activity. i maintain that fishing of all species must be conducted sustainably, for example by using pole-and-line methods which allow caught juvenile fish to be returned immediately to the sea, enabling them to spawn, as opposed to these huge industrial trawling nets which indiscriminately catch all fish and also additional by-catches of sharks and turtles, etc. this is shocking, and leads to severe depletion of the stocks, calling into question long-term species sustainability and marine conservation.
mr president, i am against an eu financial transaction tax. the uk government is against an eu financial transaction tax. so are the governments of the czech republic, sweden, luxembourg and malta. so, if we are not unanimous, why are we still talking about this tax? a tax which will damage growth and cost jobs. let us face facts. it is britain which will lose most of these jobs. the eu financial transaction tax is a tax on the city of london. france and germany may well be willing to see jobs and businesses driven out of my constituency, but i will not stand by and let london become the eu’s whipping boy.
mr president, today i voted against this report on a european tax on financial transactions because i consider that the text proposed failed one fundamental test – namely, to ensure that an eu financial transaction tax (ftt) would be paid by financial institutions and bankers but not by ordinary citizens. the text today does not include the necessary safeguards to ensure that the price of an ftt would not be passed on to ordinary people through reduced returns in their pensions, increased home or car insurance or higher prices for manufactured goods. i am convinced that the tax which is proposed today can lead only to a hidden tax on the real economy: the so-called robin hood tax has turned into the sheriff of nottingham tax. moreover, the prospects of seeing an ftt implemented at eu level with 27 member states involved, let alone at global level, are extremely unlikely. a european ftt without london involved in the system cannot be a serious exercise which delivers what we want – namely, to make financial institutions, bankers and speculators contribute more in return for the huge cost to taxpayers of bailing them out. the tax will simply not deliver.
mr president, the report on a common system for taxing financial transactions states that such a tax can have a positive impact on the long-term growth of the eu. however, i believe it will do exactly the opposite. as i have said before, surely my colleagues from sweden can understand and share my position towards an eu-wide ftt. the report acknowledges that there is a lack of international agreement but states that the eu should go ahead anyway. however, if the eu does go it alone, we may find that, as in sweden in the 1980s, the vast majority of our traders in bonds, equities and derivatives will relocate outside of the eu. this is unlikely to promote the growth that we all desire. the city of london plays host to a comparatively large financial services sector which is already subject to stamp duty at national level, therefore contributing to the prosperity of the eu as a whole. it would be disproportionate to request the city of london to pay in addition an eu-wide ftt, putting it at a comparative disadvantage internationally. i find this tax to be unfair and i have voted against the report.
mr president, i voted against the report on this proposal for a common system for taxing financial transactions on a number of grounds. i have a fundamental objection to the concept of a proposed tax which is supposed to help us out of an economic crisis. i simply fail to see any intellectual connection between those two things. taxes do not create growth. we should be concentrating on growth. it makes no sense at all. the consumer is the one who will pay, leaving less money to spend on things that we wish them to spend it on – the things we make, the services we provide. it will not be the bankers, who are, i presume, the target of the left of this house. i would also object because my own member state – and i say this unashamedly – is disproportionately and, i believe, in some ways maliciously being targeted here. we must resist that at all costs.
mr president, like all british conservatives, i firmly oppose this report and voted against it regarding the ftt within the european union. i would be far more sympathetic if this were a global tax, which would have to include the usa, the bric countries, as well as the european union member states to be remotely viable, otherwise this is an example of economic illiteracy and anti-growth which will drive financial services away from the european union. london, which i proudly represent, would be hit particularly badly given its prime eu position as a centre for financial services. it is estimated that up to some 50 000 jobs would be negatively impacted, particularly if the issue of issuance goes through, which would give powers to capture london within the jurisdiction of the ftt. so this would be financial suicide for the united kingdom, which is why prime minister david cameron and the city of london will fight this measure tooth and nail.
mr president, the british labour delegation has worked with ngos and trade unions over a number of years to campaign for a fair tax on financial transactions. this has the support of two-thirds of the british public. yet today we had no option but to abstain on the final vote on the podimata report. the campaign for a tax on financial transactions has always been about supporting the fight against poverty, unemployment and climate change at home and abroad, as well as stabilising the economy with a shift away from short-term profit towards the needs of the real economy. it was never intended to provide funds for the eu budget. we are committed to continuing our work with the trade unions and ngos for a fair policy on taxation of the financial services industry, which enjoys vat exemption worth gbp 18 billion in the uk. by including the issue of own resources, the podimata report has hijacked a great idea and a great campaign. therefore, with a heavy heart, we are unable to give it our full support.
mr president, it would be nice to have a little less hypocrisy and more honesty from our tory colleagues across the way, since the real reason they voted against it is that over half of tory party funds come from the financial services industry. the eplp supports the robin hood campaign for an ftt, supported by two thirds of the public. we support the principle of an ftt to tackle speculation and stabilise the economy, away from short-term profit-chasing towards the needs of the real economy. a well-designed, effective ftt can raise revenue to meet global development priorities and tackle climate change, and help fund domestic priorities. we remain committed to the campaign for an ftt, for a fair taxation policy (as has been said) for an industry which enjoys a vat exemption in the uk of circa eur 18 billion per year. but prioritising own resources for the eu budget is very far removed from the original and laudable aims and ambitions of the robin hood tax campaigners. the eu does not have the competence or the legal base to raise financial taxes or allocate their resources to the eu budget. we therefore had to abstain on the podimata report, but we will continue to engage constructively on an eu ftt debate, unlike the conservative-liberal democrat coalition government in the uk.
mr president, this report on trade with china is of vital importance and i am pleased that the committee on international trade decided to draft it. i am fully behind maintaining and developing further good relations with a state that will soon become the world’s most powerful economy, provided that we address the imbalances of the current relationship. there are a number of points, therefore, that i would like to support within this report. restrictions on rare earth exports, of which china accounts for 97% of world production, must be remedied. i welcome the call for china to accede to the multilateral agreement on government procurement so that european firms have the same market access as chinese firms. the chinese authorities should also do more to protect intellectual property, so as to encourage, not discourage, european investors. it is regrettable that in 2010, 85% of all goods seized at the eu’s external borders for infringing intellectual rights originated in china. i must, however, point out that, whilst supporting the report as a whole, i do not support full reciprocity in trade relations with major emerging economies such as china.
mr president, eu and china: unbalanced trade? it is the first time i have spoken on something that had a question mark, and indeed it is a very big one. we have all heard the predictions, that china becoming the world’s biggest and most dominant economy within the next 20 years is a fact. of course we tend to use this, it is the latest bogeyman that we talk to our children about. of course we must heed these warnings and we must fight back. i use the word ‘fight’ and the terminology of conflict advisedly. we are engaged in a struggle to maintain and improve our current standards of living in europe and to protect and promote our economic growth. this report calls on china to adopt european standards across areas such as intellectual property, environmental protection and climate change mitigation. all well and good, but how long is that going to take? we must also create conditions in europe to take the fight to china. we need to free up business from unnecessary regulation and artificial restrictions, and let the european entrepreneurial spirit shine through.
mr president, i too voted in favour of the de sarnez report on unbalanced trade between the eu and china. the report analyses the trade relationship between these two massive economies, and i support the recommendations that it makes for the chinese government, particularly on improving market access for eu companies. china, sadly, does not do enough in terms of fighting piracy, stopping the production of counterfeit goods or improving labour rights, animal welfare and, most importantly, human rights. but that is another issue. the report also notes that the chinese economy does not yet earn the world trade organisation definition of a functioning market economy, and i back the call for the commission to work with the chinese government in order to remove the remaining obstacles so that this can be achieved. i also support the call to the commission to submit a proposal to parliament on the measures required before china can be recognised as a functioning market economy by the european union. sadly, china functions as a form of crony capitalism with massive state intervention and huge secrecy, particularly in the banking sector, which make the long-term dangers of overheating of the economy, or even serious malfunction, all the greater.
mr president, the european parliament’s right of inquiry report that we voted on today is a very interesting one for my constituents. i am pleased that we actually decided not to give it a positive, or indeed negative, vote at this stage. this report has provided an interesting insight into a fundamental division in this parliament. there are those who believe that this parliament should promote itself as some kind of higher level chamber of inquiry for european citizens. indeed the lisbon treaty – a sordid deal stitched up by the european elite without consulting the citizens in many cases, particularly in my own member state – calls for just such a development. this proposal would give the european parliament the power to summon government officials from member states to appear before it, explaining themselves like naughty schoolboys. i cannot accept that this is a reasonable way forward. we need to look again at the details. the european parliament is not held in high regard in member states, despite what many members may think. many of my constituents question its right to exist, or indeed its usefulness. this sort of inquiry would not help.
mr president, i too voted against this report on the european parliament’s right of inquiry. i support the existing rights of the standard european parliament committee of inquiry, but much of what this report now seeks to achieve is, and should remain, the preserve of the national governments and the national parliaments of our member states. i find that the new idea that a committee of inquiry of the european parliament should have the legal power to subpoena witnesses, including member state officials, to give explanations in the line of its inquiries, is unacceptable and goes too far. as my colleague, julie girling, has said, we do not actually get much respect nor are we even seen as legitimate in many cases by our constituents, so we are really pushing the issue far too far as far as the public of our countries are concerned. the notion that the european parliament should be given the right to carry out on-the-spot investigations in the event that it does not feel its rights in this area are being respected, goes beyond its remit. frankly it would be regarded as a bit of a joke by most of the british public.
in writing. − whilst it is essential all efforts are made internationally to protect the atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna, it is laughable to assume the eu is an appropriate body to commit to adherence to the conditions of the iccat recovery plan. the eu’s record of maritime maintenance under the common fisheries policy has led to some of the worst depletion in fish stocks in the world. it is the macro-management and division of national waters between the entire territory of the union, and erroneous quota and catch limits that have led to the exploitative overfishing we see not only in european waters but the waters of third countries, often in the developing world, who have signed bilateral trade agreements. in order for worthwhile adherence to iccat stipulations to be achieved, fishing policy must be devolved back to the territorial governments.
in writing. − i backed new international measures to further reduce illegal catches of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean aimed at ensuring more sustainable development of stocks. these also called for more advice on the identification of spawning grounds and the creation of sanctuaries. the new rules, which focus chiefly on reducing the size of fishing fleets, extending closed seasons for purse seiners and beefing up controls, were agreed at the annual meeting of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna (iccat) in november 2010. the eu, as a contracting party to iccat, is obliged to incorporate its recommendations into eu law. the new rules must be implemented quickly now that the bluefin fishing season has just opened.
in writing. − overfishing of bluefin tuna and illegal catches have led to stocks decreasing significantly; this is why there is a need for a renewed effort to preserve the species in europe. i voted in favour of measures aiming to further reduce fishing quotas and strengthen controls over bluefin tuna fishing in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. some 56 % of all legally captured bluefin tuna comes from eu waters. the main countries fishing it are spain, france and italy, and the main importer is japan. in this resolution, which i voted in favour of, parliament aims to tighten rules protecting eu bluefin tuna stocks, along the lines proposed by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna (iccat). the proposals include reducing the allowable quotas and establishing sanctuaries, calling for some zones in the mediterranean to be declared closed areas or sanctuaries for bluefin tuna. these proposals are vital in helping to rebuild the tuna population.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote as the regulation, while valid in its proposition, negates the freedom of the free market and arrogates it to the eu commission. oil slicks are major environmental disasters that must be mitigated and managed, thus i wholeheartedly agree that an appropriate way of controlling risk of spillage is via the international adoption of double-hulled vessels. however, the proposal enables such a broad scope of legislative power to be subsumed by the commission without significant recourse to the parliament and the council it would be in contradiction to my sentiments to support the draft legislation.
in writing. − ukip meps can see both sides of the argument in that protection of the environment is good but double hulls would be a massive cost to shipping and make us uncompetitive with the rest of the world if they were brought in just for the eu.
in writing. − ukip meps can see both sides of the argument in that protection of the environment is good but double hulls would be a massive cost to shipping and make us uncompetitive with the rest of the world, if it was brought in just for the eu. we therefore abstained on the report.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the accelerated phasing-in of double-hull or equivalent design requirements for single-hull oil tankers is a very important issue. oil slicks resulting from oil tanker accidents, such as those involving the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with tragic repercussions for the marine fauna and flora. reflecting a concern for the environment and a willingness to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements. in single-hull vessels the oil in the cargo tanks is separated from the seawater only by the bottom and side plating. if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution. an effective means of avoiding this risk is to surround the cargo tanks with a second inner plate at a sufficient distance from the outer shell. this ‘double hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk.
in writing. − i wholly oppose the unelected eu commission negotiating fisheries agreements with small nations, allowing the eu to ‘buy’ small nations in order to exploit their fishing stocks. european waters are so badly depleted due to the common fisheries policy, many stocks are dangerously over-fished. this inevitably leads to the commission seeking foreign fertile waters in which european boats may trawl for the stocks needed to satiate large greedy consumer demand across the 27 nation bloc. it is appalling to permit the european commission to persuade third countries, where entire communities are often dependent upon subsistence fishing, to admit eu trawlers to their waters where european boats may indiscriminately dredge stocks dry, rendering not only an environmental impact, but a socio-economic disaster for coastal communities
in writing. − i welcome this agreement. the eu’s and united kingdom’s interest in indian ocean fisheries is historical. the improvements identified in this protocol not only safeguard the interests of the fishing industry, but also provide another step in improving the development of mozambique, as well as promoting sustainable fisheries. such agreements with third countries are vital and i would encourage the commission, as well as the other institutions involved, to agree these protocols in a timely fashion. delays can lead to a range of anxieties. part of the reason this protocol is so important is that it helps address the displacement of eu fishermen brought about by piracy in waters further to the north. may i take this opportunity to congratulate the lead being given by the eu naval force somalia, as evidenced by its action on tuesday last week, in helping bring about an end to this scourge.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. on 2 june 2011, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, a new protocol was signed between the eu and mozambique. this protocol will be valid for three years (from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2014) and involves an annual contribution of eur 980 000 from the eu budget, of which eur 520 000 is for access by european fishing vessels to the mozambique fishing zone and eur 460 000 is to assist mozambique’s sectoral policy.
in writing. − most substantiations we have heard for introducing a financial transactions tax are pure myth. the only purpose of the tax is to give brussels its own source of income, while hammering national economies – weakening their independence. it is a shrewd way of moving money, and thus power, to the centre, paving the way for a federalised super-state. the very fact that the european union feels it can give itself tax-raising powers without recourse to any sort of democratic vote is frankly horrifying. it is very easy to sell such a tax to the public as taking money from greedy bankers. but that is a profligate lie. banks themselves cannot be ‘taxed’. the ftt would affect wages after making raising capital more expensive. less money means smaller pay, not for the bankers, but for everyday workers. it would affect pensions, mortgages – all financial services. the ftt would impact upon everyone, affecting overall gdp, taking money from member states while brussels builds its own reserves. the ftt would increase volatility, not reduce it. it would disproportionately target the uk, destroy competiveness and do unforetold damage to the city of london – something i am sure brussels would delight in.
in writing. − the european union and its member states urgently need to find new sources of revenue. a common system for taxing financial transactions could provide much needed income at a time of economic austerity.
in writing. − i have always fully supported a robin hood tax as i believe banks and the financial sector should pay their fair share of taxes. at the moment the financial sector in the uk enjoys a vat exemption in the uk of circa gbp 18 billion per annum. i believe that a well designed ftt could generate vital new funds to fight poverty and unemployment at home and abroad, as well as confronting the challenge of climate change. however, the podimata report calls for revenues raised from the ftt to be used for eu own resources. prioritising own resources for the eu budget does not represent the aims of the robin hood tax and for this reason i chose to abstain on the final vote. of course, i will continue to support and campaign for an ftt and to engage constructively in the debate.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote as while china, having acceded to the wto in 2001, should respect wto rules by liberalising trade and opening its markets; and while so far its efforts in this regard have not been satisfactory by any means; while the chinese economy does not fulfil the criteria of a market economy as defined by the wto; and while china continues to operate not in full compliance to international standards, i do not believe the eu as a supranational body should possess such responsibilities as to author trade pacts with third counties that subsume independent bits of member states, thus speaking on behalf of all 27 national economies on the global stage. necessary economic austerity drives the need for increased competition. the european union is in the midst of an economic crisis and is crippled by anaemic growth rates; it needs inward investment and expansive trade. this requires less centralised pontification from brussels-based bureaucrats and instead idiomatic, nationalised bilateral trade flows.
in writing. − when it comes to trade agreements, it is unfortunate that corporate social responsibility, human rights and environmental issues are sometimes used as a smokescreen by parties essentially uninterested in promoting free and open trade. breaking down barriers to commerce is often the best way of building a road out of poverty and towards wealth for millions of entrepreneurs, small-business owners and the communities in which they live, all around the world. it also helps hard-pressed families in our constituencies to have access to more affordable goods. of course, we should not ignore serious human rights issues, but expecting a global player like china simply to transpose the european union’s social model onto itself is short sighted and could be counterproductive. the european union is in the midst of an economic crisis and is crippled by anaemic growth rates; it needs all the inward investment and trade that it can get. small businesses, which often have small turnovers but which are the engine rooms of most economies, need less pontificating from out-of-touch bureaucrats and more solutions that will help to develop bilateral global trade flows, and will bring them, and society as a whole, the prosperity they need and deserve.
in writing. − i voted for this report, but for me its core message had less to do with china and more to do with recognition that it is essential for the eu to implement a concerted reindustrialisation policy and a research and innovation policy commensurate with the new global challenges.
in writing. − this should be an exclusive domestic competence of member state governments only, enabling national parliaments to summon relevant witnesses to examine alleged breaches of eu law. drawing up sanctions for any who refuse to cooperate with investigation, organising committees to scrutinise evidence and documentation from both eu and national bodies in order to enforce the proper application of eu law, and giving committees of enquiry the legal power to subpoena witnesses, including member state officials, is chilling in its megalomaniacal scope for a supranational organisation created and established by vote solely as a free trade bloc. while the ep already has a power to conduct an enquiry, it is rarely exercised. this proposal significantly augments parliament’s power theoretically even enabling it to call upon nation state ministers, including the prime minister or president, to be summoned as witnesses. in wording it even renders the monarchy culpable to parliamentary scrutiny. by what perceived right does the european union believe it should honour itself with such ominous, technocratic powers and by what democratic vehicle could it possibly seek to establish them?
in writing. − naturally, i voted for my report. i believe that new rules on committees of inquiry which improve parliament’s right to call witnesses, access documents and carry out investigations would enhance our ability to exercise our control function and ensure the proper application of eu law.
in writing. − as the only democratically elected institution representing citizens at european union level, it is vital that the european parliament is fully able to scrutinise the administration of the eu and its laws and hold public institutions to account. that is why labour meps have voted for this report, drafted by my labour colleague david martin, which has considerable cross-party support. in the wake of the 2007 equitable life inquiry, which was restricted by a lack of necessary legal powers, the proposed regulation aims to bring the powers of the european parliament to a level with those of national parliaments when conducting special investigations into alleged maladministration. it does not seek to extend the parliament’s powers of inquiry beyond those typical for national parliaments.
mr president, the ecr group is deeply concerned about the risk of war breaking out between sudan and africa’s newest state, south sudan. we, as a group, fully support efforts by the ex-president of south africa, thabo mbeki, to mediate via the african union and bring the parties to the negotiating table – namely president salva kiir and president al-bashir. but they must exercise maximum restraint to avoid precipitating a bloody war, particularly in the areas which are legally disputed territories like abyei and heglig. clearly, demarcation and delimitation of the border and the division of energy resources need to be political priorities. alarmingly, we now know that juba will shortly run out of money because the pipeline for exporting oil has been shut down. china also has a key role in mediating. the situation is precarious and has dashed all hopes that the recent separation of muslim-majority sudan from the christian and animist south will provide a lasting peaceful solution to this conflict.
mr president, one of the tragedies of post-independence africa has been the cycle of civil wars. of course, now that south sudan is independent it is no longer strictly a civil war, but there is no doubt that the conflict is a product and continuation of earlier civil conflicts. one causal factor is the legacy of colonists who drew arbitrary lines on maps that ignored the ethnic, religious and linguistic populations, either splitting them up or corralling them together with incompatible populations. the southern abantu and nilotic peoples have little in common with the arab and nubian populations of the north. before we in europe feel too superior, we too have seen failed states that have overlooked deep vertical divisions. i hope that wiser counsels will prevail and that the people of the two states will eventually become better neighbours than they were fellow-citizens. we must learn from the mistakes of others; the creation of states with vertical divisions is always ill-advised. is freedom of movements of peoples within europe, and especially from the third world into europe, really such a good idea?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, ever since independence from portugal in the 1970s after a bloody war, the small, impoverished west african country of guinea-bissau has remained in a state of almost constant conflict between the civilian and military authorities, with a spate of political assassinations. my group, the ecr, condemns the latest actions of the military last month, when a coup derailed the presidential elections and installed a military junta. the regional organisation ecowas (economic community of west african states) must be commended for its robust leadership in responding to this crisis. a combination of security-building measures, involving 600 regional peacekeeping troops, and hard-hitting pragmatic negotiations with threats of economic sanctions, has reportedly now broken the deadlock, and hopefully stabilised the country. i have heard reports recently that the military junta is stepping down and handing power back to a civilian and interim government, with the prospect of free and fair elections taking place in the future. this state of affairs, if it is true, is to be welcomed. the eu should demand that the interim government make significant reform of the political system its top priority. we must not forget that a stable, law-abiding, democratic guinea-bissau is very much in the west’s interests. the country is, sadly, a key intermediary for drug shipments between south america – mainly the colombian cocaine cartels – and europe. therefore, to continue the fight against illegal drugs, which blight the lives of so many of our citizens and fuel organised criminality, the international community must continue to observe closely and apply pressure, particularly economic pressure, on guinea-bissau to act responsibly and appropriately and cease to be a failed state or, worse still, a ‘narco state’. the country must, with the support of the african union, the united nations and the eu, move forward with determination to ensure democratic and civil rights for all its citizens. i would like to agree with my colleague rui tavares and ask why – as baroness ashton cannot, unfortunately, be here – nick westcott, the eeas managing director for africa and a regional expert, could not have been here in her place to listen to this debate.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − mr president, the committee on regional development was pleased to provide an opinion on this report. the committee welcomed the fact that resource efficiency was a flagship initiative for 2020. the committee on regional development also called for greater investment in infrastructure for renewable energy projects and i am pleased to say that the new regulations for cohesion policy do indeed take this into account. the committee also called for the contribution of the european structural funds towards sustainable growth to be reinforced. again the new cohesion policies take this into account. we also called for increased coordination between various eu funds to achieve resource efficiency and again our proposal is that structural funds should be harmonised in the future. the committee also called for greater coordination between local authorities and regions because, at the end of the day, it is often local authorities and regions that have to deliver these projects. so in general, and to sum up, the committee on regional development is pleased with this report.
mr president, currently the average eu citizen generates about six tons of waste. this is clearly unacceptable and i support measures to encourage more recycling and reusing. nevertheless, we have come a long way. in the uk, 40% of household waste is recycled, compared to 11% ten years ago. the rapporteur has made some useful suggestions, but his report contains some impractical recommendations such as the general ban on landfill waste. the rapporteur wants all member states to introduce a landfill tax. this house needs to learn that taxation is not the solution to every problem. i believe our resources should be managed in an environmentally sound manner. however, we need to set realistic targets with a gradual transition away from landfill. these decisions, more importantly, need to be made at member state level.
mr president, last year my group welcomed both the commission roadmap and december’s council conclusions on resource efficiency, and we were broadly supportive of the decision to draw up this own-initiative report, despite reservations on the number of own-initiative reports being drafted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. so i pay tribute to the efforts of the rapporteur but, yet again, i find that the report offers only a lengthy and at times disjointed catalogue of demands and not a clear and definitive achievable strategy. in a report which attempts to list absolutely everything anyone thought of, there are inevitably many areas i cannot agree with, amongst them environmental taxation, the implication that agriculture has only negative impacts, and the lack of clear and agreed definitions for so many concepts such as harmful environmental subsidies. the sensible use of resources is a common aim, so i regret that this report has strayed into areas which my british conservative delegation find unacceptable, resulting in a vote of abstention.
mr president, even climate change sceptics must accept that mineral resources are finite and that the demand for resources will rise exponentially. of course the one resource that we sometimes overlook is the human resource, the quality of our peoples. if we look on page 7 of the commission’s 2010 document, europe 2020, it says that europe has many strengths and we can count on the talent and creativity of our peoples. this was a rare admission. perhaps the author’s orwellian crimestop button had been left unconnected. that would usually have prevented ideological thoughtcrime from being committed, but not on this occasion. however, the author was quite right. the achievement of the peoples of europe in science, technology and the arts have been unparalleled. we might ask why we are so intent on replacing europe’s populations with the populations of other parts of the world that have been less fortunate in their blessings.
in writing. – the current economic difficulties are putting an enormous strain on the eu’s limited resources, which is consequently stifling our ability to grow. however i do not believe that a move towards environmental taxes, particularly an eu tax, is the answer as suggested in the report on a resource-efficient europe. similarly, the proposal to strengthen the eu’s waste acquis is not logical as this will merely put more unnecessary pressure on national governments causing them to shift their focus away from the growth that the eu needs right now. we ought to have a greater focus on research, development and innovation if we are to be true competitors against the rising economic powers of brazil, russia, india and china. we need to compete by encouraging our smes and removing the obstacles they face, such as accessing credit, and helping them to increase their trade both in europe and globally. we need to recognise that if we are to achieve the goals of the eu 2020 strategy of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, we need to take a global perspective when formulating all policy.
madam president, the ever-growing figure of youth unemployment results from the selfishness of today’s politicians abandoning tomorrow’s prospects. in the uk there has been a 43% increase in the number of young people aged 18 to 24 who have not had a job for more than two years. it would seem that some have given up on looking for work and are becoming increasingly detached from society. the youth unemployment crisis can be beaten only if job creation for young people becomes a key priority in policymaking and private sector investment picks up significantly. my concern is that the eu is far too rigid in its general approach to law-making to be of any real assistance to our young people. yes, you might point to this scheme or that scheme, but the bureaucracy to apply for support is so disproportionate to the assistance required that it becomes self-defeating. the uk needs to offer tax breaks and other incentives to businesses hiring young people and offering more entrepreneurship programmes to help kick-start careers. eu, you are part of the problem, not the solution.
madam president, i certainly welcome the youth opportunities initiative. it offers some good suggestions in its call for member states to implement measures to tackle youth unemployment. however, it is important to recognise that some member states are already taking quite considerable action. certainly we in the uk are acutely aware of the problems we have with youth unemployment. what we have done recently – and it is very recently, i admit – is to include measures to tackle youth unemployment in our growth plan. we recognise that short-term job creation, based on subsidised loans and other public borrowing, is not a sustainable long-term solution, so we have made sure that our support measures are available to unemployed young people and are flexible, targeted and based on individuals’ reasons for unemployment, their level of experience and their level of education, because we want to make sure that we provide the right support for the right person. how can we ensure that this european initiative is complementary to the national schemes already put in place by member states and is not overly prescriptive? in terms of funding, the youth opportunities initiative appears to have a very small set of funding streams, available through the european social fund and under the heading of social innovation, for example. i want to know if the commission envisages a means of boosting the funds available, through mechanisms such as the programme for social change and innovation, in which there are proposals to include a youth initiative axis, although these seem to be rather dependent on new funding being found. i am concerned about excessive bureaucracy in any initiative of this kind, especially when many of the measures need to be accessed directly by young and potentially disadvantaged people or, in the case of apprenticeships, by small businesses. can we expect these mechanisms to be coupled with existing member state programmes, or to be accessible through some sort of one-stop shop with clear guidance and information for users?
madam president, youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges facing member states, and tonight’s debate is very welcome. the eu certainly has a role to play, but we do not have a magic wand and we cannot just decree jobs. the eu could do a lot to support member states simply by exchanging best practice. in the uk, as has already been mentioned, we have committed gbp 1 billion to a new youth contract. there is much the eu can do, such as coordinating policy initiatives, but also completing the single market, promoting mobility and, especially, reducing the red tape that prevents smes in particular from taking on young people. so let us concentrate on practical solutions and not engage in gesture politics which betray our young people.
madam president, i do not believe that spending more taxpayers’ money will solve the growing problem of youth unemployment. nor are grand plans and schemes, like the eu youth opportunities initiative, the answer, for these have nothing to offer. to tackle a problem resulting from its own policies, the eu is proposing another expensive commission programme. rather, we should stop taking money from small businesses in particular, and remove the red tape burden from smes, which are the employers of half the workforce. that will free their businesses up and allow them to employ young people, reducing unemployment. we should reduce taxes on big business in return for them taking on young people in apprenticeships and training. with this kind of stimulus they will prosper as their trainees, becoming more productive in years to come, plough their skills back in. for businesses offer actual practice and training, forming the habit of working and taking home money which has been earned, creating the dignity of providing for oneself, which can only help society.
blue-card answer. – it was not me that said this first. it was commissioner barroso himself who, just under two years ago, said in this house that red tape was strangling small businesses. i have since asked the commissioner twice what he is going to do about removing or reducing red tape. i get no answer. as for what i mean, i mean all the petty, small regulations which so hamper small businesses and drive some of them to the wall and some of them to distraction as the owner sits up late at night completing this form or that form or accounting for this penny or that penny. no, it is not the complete answer; nothing ever is. but it would be a jolly good start if small businesses in particular were freed of much of this red tape so they could get on with the job of doing what they are doing and then, because they have got more capital to spend, employ young people and help youth unemployment.
madam president, women must have equal pay for work of equal value. women must have equal opportunity in the workplace. equality for all is a basic human right: there is no denying this. however, with a heavy heart, i shall be voting against this report. i fully support the principles of equality for women in all fields, but this report calls on the commission to legislate on equal pay and to reinforce this legislation with sanctions. the eu likes to transform noble intentions into legislation, which then becomes an albatross around the neck of businesses. just look at the working time directive or the agency workers’ directive. legislation is bad for business and bad for women. it may even ultimately harm women’s employment opportunities. in the uk we have realised that change will not happen by telling companies how to run their businesses. we can close the gender pay gap only when firms themselves realise the benefits. the british government’s ‘think, act, report’ programme is a voluntary approach to improve the transfer of pay. initiatives such as this have proved to work well. eu legislation is not welcome in the fields of employment, pensions or social services, however good the intentions may be. the eu can play a positive role by sharing best practice. i welcome this report and i welcome the debate, but legislation crosses a red line. i congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
madam president, i am very much in favour of equal work for equal value and of fair treatment, but the issue here is: who enforces that? we do not need the eu to dictate to sovereign nations yet more top-down equalities legislation in yet another power grab. pay should not be set at the eu level. with the state of the european economies at present, this enforcement really does not help – it is like tying weights to someone who is already drowning. already the engine of our economies – small businesses – are suffering from too many unnecessary, costly and over-the-top regulations, such as the disgraceful, out-of-control uk employment tribunal system, where 90% of those laws come from the eu and which really acts as licensed blackmail. thankfully the uk government is cutting that back. but business really does not need this – not when one in five young people in the eu are out of work and when the eu share of gdp wealth is falling so alarmingly. we have to ensure that all intervention is constructive; this is not. then there is the eu’s equality directive, which was dressed up as harriet harman’s equality act. civitas actually estimated that that directive alone cost gbp 150 million in the service sector and 210 million across smes, across the uk. it is too much. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – ms kolarska-bobińska, no, absolutely not. i do compliment the report. as i said quite clearly, i am in favour of equal pay for equal work. that principle is very important. what i query is whether this should be done at eu level. i do not believe it should be; it should be for nation states. however, i absolutely agree with you on the principle. it is the intervention at eu level, the heavy costs of that and the power of the eu over sovereign states that i object to. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – ms morin-chartier, i agree with that. i accept in this report that career breaks actually cause a lot of loss of income and affect this. as i say, i am very much in favour in the thrust of it. what i am saying is that this should be down to nation states to do and should not be enforced – which this legislation associated with a good report does. that is the problem. it is not the report, because that is a very good report in many respects. it is the legislation, done top-down from the eu, which i object to. the great thrust of it is very good, but it should be done through nation states.
madam president, equal pay for work of equal value is not an issue which divides us; it is an issue of basic equal opportunities and equal rights. we are united in promoting it. however, we have to be pragmatic about how we deal with it. in my many years of business experience i have been involved with this issue many times. it is not a straightforward case of proclaiming a principle. painstaking work to benchmark equal value must take place and it comes with a cost. i believe society must be prepared to pay that cost. my problem here is not the principle involved, but the issue of eu legislation. i do not believe that eu legislation will add value. where companies are failing to follow national legislation, why do we believe that they will react any more favourably to the heavy hand of the commission? as meps, we frequently find ourselves bemoaning the failure of member states to enforce eu legislation. i look around this chamber at the intelligent, powerful and impressive women engaged in this issue. let us not waste our energies denouncing conservative governments, and concentrate on working in our member states to get legislation which works. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not suppose that there is any realistic expectation that i will spend the next three hours going through an answer to that. if i concentrate on this issue of equal pay, let me simply say that the point that i made here – and i do not know if people are wilfully trying to misunderstand it – is not that i do not think that equal pay for equal value will improve women’s rights or women’s workplace conditions. of course i do. i made that point and i have been involved in it all my working life. what i think, though, is that the commission will not add to that by legislating. it will not help. we need to make sure that our member states subscribe to it and put it into practice.
author. − mr president, i fully agree with the remarks of my colleagues from the epp and s&d, as there is strong cross-party agreement on this matter. i, on behalf of alde, strongly regret that the swiss authorities have decided to re-establish these quantitative restrictions – these quotas – on residence permits for nationals of the a8 member states a year after the transitional restrictions expired. i absolutely agree with mr trzaskowski that the decision to target these quotas only at eight member states is discriminatory, and therefore unlawful. there is absolutely no legal basis, as ms gebhardt said, for any national differentiation in the existing treaties between switzerland and the eu, and specifically in the 1999 agreement safeguard clause. i agree with catherine ashton’s statement that the quotas are in breach of the agreement on the free movement of persons. there are approximately one million eu nationals in switzerland among a total of nearly 1.8 million foreigners, but my understanding is that until last year the swiss government had only awarded 2 000 residence permits to nationals from the a8, so i really do not see how this is a massive problem. this is on top of the fact that it is illegal to differentiate. i am sure that switzerland appreciates that the free movement of persons is of huge advantage to the swiss economy, making a crucial contribution to the creation and preservation of jobs. alde believes that this measure is neither economically justified by the labour market situation, nor by the number of eu citizens actually seeking residence in switzerland. mention has been made of the wider problems of free movement of service providers, implementation of the free market and burdens on smes, so i am afraid there is much to discuss with switzerland.
mr president, switzerland is a sovereign state and has had the sense to avoid becoming a member of the eu soviet. i make no unfavourable judgment about the general populations of eastern europe; however, the differences in wage rates between the east and the west have had the effect of attracting large numbers from east to west, to the economic and social disruption of both. switzerland has a particularly high gdp per capita. why? possibly because it is outside the eu. in 2009, nearly a quarter of the swiss population consisted of immigrants, and 31% had an immigrant background. how overwhelmed does switzerland have to become before it is permitted to act? the eu is a playground bully and a control freak. not content with bullying its own members into submission, it also wants to bully everybody else. all member states and non-member states should stand up to the bullying and retake control over their own borders, regardless of treaty obligations.
blue-card question. – ms koppa, do you think that the level of corruption in a recipient country should be a criterion for whether macro-financial assistance is paid or not?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr kazak for his report. the greens appreciate that the commission has come forward with this proposal for a general regulation on mfa. we have been asking for such a regulation for the last five years and now the question arises whether this proposal is still in time. given that parliament is about to start the revision of the existing financial instruments for the period 2014-2020, and given the limited size and importance of the mfa instrument, we wonder whether it might not be wise to integrate the mfa into the new european neighbourhood instrument from 2014 onwards. this instrument already provides for budget support and could accommodate conditionality. we would only need to integrate the mfa elements when blending grants and loans into the eni framework, but this should be possible. for greens this would seem to be the most elegant way to signal to our neighbourhood partners that we are still willing to support their balance of payments stability while solving the problem of how to make mfa more of a true eu structural adjustment programme. we sadly did not receive the support of the other political groups over this idea. hence we will go with the rapporteur and we will be abstaining in the vote later on. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question, but i do not entirely understand why there should be any element of gender specificity: there should be equal rights for equal work, applying equally to men and women, and to young men and young women.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, last year eur 107 million was paid out in macro-financial assistance. since the scheme began the eu has paid out eur 9 billion, all to countries which are not even members of the eu. from the point of view of the taxpayer, the scheme closely resembles pre-accession funding, another wasteful giveaway of our money. not to mince words, it is simply a slush fund. last year, kosovo, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina got macro-financial assistance, three countries with deserved reputations for bribery, corruption and organised crime. the term ‘macro-financial assistance’ is simply eu jargon intended to conceal what is really going on: yet more british taxpayers’ money paid out by the eu to the wrong people and then wasted.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank everyone who signed this declaration. it is a very important subject. i am sure you are all delighted that we have adopted a declaration asking for adequate funding for vaccinations in developing countries. i would like to thank the ngos we worked with: gavi, global health associates, the one campaign and results uk. i would also like to thank the other proposers, ms vergiat, ms de keyser, mr newton dunn and of course mr kelly, who i know now wants to say a few words.
madam president, i voted in favour of the kazak report on the general provisions for macro-financial assistance to third countries. the report stresses the need for transparency in instances where mfa is granted. but not only must the conditions for these provisions be clear, so too must its usage once the funds have actually been granted. the external action service may well be able now to demonstrate its worth on this particular front, if it is to aid the commission in its assessment of potential beneficiaries in third countries. given that it is proposed that the countries benefitting from eu mfa must first sign a memorandum of understanding which will commit them to sharing some of the core values of the european union – including democracy, the upholding of human rights, poverty reduction, fighting corruption and promoting good governance – i believe that the eu mfa may well be a useful tool in helping these countries in other ways other than just on the financial level.
madam president, my group was pleased to vote in favour of the resolution on ukraine. the resolution sends a clear message from our parliament to kiev. we will not tolerate the abuses that the yanukovych regime is perpetrating upon yulia tymoshenko and opposition politicians. gross manipulation of the judicial system, by selective justice, to remove political opposition at a time of elections – the parliamentary elections are due in june – is totally unacceptable to the european union. my group, the ecr, is saddened to learn that mrs tymoshenko may also now face a murder charge. it is interesting that the us investigators, when they prosecuted ex-prime minister lazarenko, dismissed this allegation regarding tymoshenko and i am very suspicious of this timing. i have also learned that the country’s chief prosecutor has been given direct political orders by the president to pursue their former premier and other government opponents. so i am now calling upon the england football team to consider boycotting all scheduled euro 2012 fixtures in ukraine in protest and to play the matches instead in co-hosting poland, ukraine's neighbour. ultimately we want ukraine to grow into a modern european state and eventually to join the european union, but that will require much higher standards of political behaviour than we have seen of late.
madam president, today i voted in favour of developing stronger incentives for a more resource-efficient economy across europe. green growth through increased innovation, research and development and resource-efficient technologies, together with the right market incentives, have the potential to boost europe’s growth and competitiveness. one of the key areas we need to tackle of course is food waste. today at least 20% of the food produced in europe goes in the bin; that is indeed a scandal. both the public and private sectors need to do more to reduce waste along the food chain, but we almost need more research and innovation in the area of bio-waste reuse and recycling. the report also calls on the commission to introduce modern nutrient-management techniques in order to reduce nutrient loss and achieve a sustainable intensification of our agricultural production. that is absolutely crucial if we are to continue feeding a growing world population while at the same time reducing the inputs our farmers need to use at the moment. that agenda needs to be at the heart of the cap reform.
madam president, my uk conservative colleagues and i fully agree with the objective of tackling youth unemployment and believe the eu has a role in assisting member states, but the best way of tackling this problem is not by micro-managing member states. the eu must add value to the work already done by member states, not duplicate it. for example, the uk has already put in place a series of initiatives in the new youth contract, with a commitment of almost gbp 1 billion over the next three years. the eu should promote best practice, ensure proper functioning and completion of the single market and, above all, remove barriers to growth in the form of the red tape which prevents businesses from taking on young people. we agree with much that is in this resolution. however, we have concerns with other aspects, including: attempts to pre-empt the final outcome of the negotiations on the maternity leave directive; calls to define minimum standards at european level in the area of employment and social affairs; calls for more ambitious sources of additional financing; and calls for the eu youth guarantee scheme to be legally enforceable. taking these concerns into account, we voted against this resolution.
madam president, i voted against the bauer report on equal pay for men and women. the fact that statistics show that wage discrimination is still very much present throughout the eu is of course extremely concerning, and i feel strongly that there is no place for discrimination in pay matters on the basis of gender, race, religion or sexual orientation in today’s society. despite this, i am convinced that employment law covering pay should be the preserve of the national governments of our member states. i oppose, as do british conservatives, the notion that laws concerning pay as well as legislation covering related issues such as social security and pensions should be imposed on the member states by the european union. i believe that it is an issue for national governments and national parliaments to deal with on behalf of their own citizens.
in writing. − i would like to stress that macro-financial assistance (mfa) must bring eu added value and should apply only where the eu can bring something to the table, rather than functioning as an ‘international monetary fund top-up’. thus, by decoupling mfa from the existence of an imf scheme, the eu will have greater freedom to provide added value. the eu could, in certain cases, consider taking the lead role in mfa operations. furthermore, the joint centre for european policy studies and london school of economics study commissioned by the ep notes that the amount of mfa is often too small to guarantee the implementation of policy measures adopted under the relevant memorandum of understanding. the report therefore proposes that, in most cases, the eu’s contribution should not fall below a minimum percentage, thus ensuring that it is sufficient to secure added value and making it easier for large countries to benefit from mfa.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which urges the ukrainian authorities to ensure full respect for the right of all prisoners, including ms tymoshenko, mr lutsenko and mr ivashchenko, to adequate medical assistance in an appropriate institution; welcomes the transfer of ms tymoshenko to hospital in kharkiv for necessary medical treatment under the supervision of german medical experts; calls on the ukrainian authorities to create the conditions necessary for her successful treatment in accordance with the advice of the german medical experts; and also asks ms tymoshenko to cooperate fully in the prescribed treatment.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which regrets the fact that homophobia continues to manifest itself in member states and third countries, including murders, banned gay prides and equality marches, public use of inflammatory, threatening and hateful language, police failure to provide adequate protection, violent authorised demonstrations by homophobic groups, and the explicit prohibition of recognising existing same-sex unions.
in writing. − i have been very encouraged by the generally very tolerant attitude that people in the united kingdom and other countries now have towards homosexuality and am strongly supportive of the opportunity that homosexual couples now have for legally recognised same sex partnerships. however, i share the concern of many that the institution of marriage, which is the firm foundation on which society is built, has been undermined, and i believe that ‘gay marriage’ is a step too far. in any case i do not believe that the european union should seek to intervene in the internal social affairs of member countries. i therefore abstained in the final vote on this resolution.
in writing. − i support this resolution against homophobia in europe. this resolution calls for equality and non-discrimination measures for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, as everyone deserves equal protection under the law. this includes protection from hate speech and violence, discrimination in schools, free movement in the european union, and indeed we believe same-sex couples are better protected under the law if they have access to legal recognition. in too many countries lgbt people still face discrimination and persecution, which range from ill-treatment and violence to imprisonment, torture, and murder. we believe the resolution voted today will proudly affirm the european parliament’s commitment to equality and human rights for all.
in writing. − i am delighted to have voted in favour of this joint resolution, which reaffirms the european parliament’s commitment to fighting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, in the wake of worrying developments both within the european union, in latvia, lithuania and hungary, and in neighbouring states. non-discrimination, equality and protection of fundamental rights are core european values, and the european union must therefore take the lead in standing up for lgbt people where they are suffering from hate, violence or discrimination. i regret that the ecr group, which is dominated by the uk’s conservatives, refused to sign this joint resolution, along with ukip and its efd group. conservative meps also overwhelmingly failed to support paragraph 9 on equal marriage. i am concerned that, where other members of the european parliament have demonstrated a strong cross-party consensus on this issue, the conservatives have shown that they do not understand the importance of the fight against homophobia and all forms of discrimination.
in writing. − the challenges are clear: our planet is growing towards 9 billion people in 2050, the amount of middle-class consumers will almost double to more than 3 billion people in the coming ten years, according to the fao food production must increase by 70% by 2050, and already now 60% of the world’s ecosystems are degraded or used unsustainably. what europe needs is a new agenda for future growth. this new agenda will demand a paradigm shift, a new way of thinking towards our production and consumption patterns. it will require not only technical but also institutional changes and social innovation. the new agenda for future growth will guarantee europe a high level of prosperity and quality of life. the roadmap for a resource efficient europe gives the analysis and sets out the first steps towards this new agenda
in writing. − the rise in youth unemployment is one of the biggest social challenges that we face across the european union. in my own constituency of northern ireland, approximately one in five young people are currently out of work. in a recent study it is estimated that growing youth unemployment costs northern ireland around gbp 250 million a year in lost productivity. this equates to a cost of close to gbp 5 million per week to the local economy and is still increasing. although the major contributing factor to the huge percentage of youth unemployment is the current economic crisis across the eu, there are also various other contributing factors that must be examined. studies show that around 3% of young people still leave northern ireland schools with no formal qualifications and many more do not achieve the necessary qualifications in numeracy and literacy. failure to attain even basic qualifications leads to significant difficulties in gaining employment and can lead to social problems and disengagement from mainstream society. therefore it is vital that member states put in place employment initiatives to boost employment opportunities and give our youth the chance to have a meaningful stake in society.
in writing. − i voted for this report which welcomes the commission’s initiative to promote the youth guarantee initiative and to allocate eur 4 million to member states to help them set up youth guarantee schemes, which should be supported by active labour market policies helping to close the gap between education and training systems and the labour market, but has sincere doubts that this sum is ambitious enough to help countries facing high rates of unemployment coupled with national budget constraints put in place these types of guarantees.
in writing. − i fully agree with the objective of tackling youth unemployment and believe the eu has a role in assisting member states, but the best way of tackling this problem is not by micromanaging member states. the eu must add value to the work already being done by member states, not duplicate it. for example, the uk has already put in place a series of initiatives, in the new youth contract with a commitment of almost gbp 1 billion over the next three years. the eu should promote best practice, ensure the proper functioning and completion of the single market, and above all remove barriers to growth – the red tape which prevents businesses from taking on young people. we agree with much contained within this resolution. however, we have concerns with other aspects including: attempts to pre-empt the final outcome of negotiations on the maternity leave directive; calls to define minimum standards at european level in the area of employment and social affairs; calls for more ambitious sources of additional financing at european level; and calls for the eu youth guarantee scheme to be legally enforceable. taking these concerns into account my uk conservative colleagues and i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on measures to tackle youth unemployment as i believe the eu is necessary to overcome this issue. devising a ‘european investment plan’ to create new jobs, reallocating eu structural funds to projects to create them for young people, and introducing a ‘european youth guarantee’ to ensure that they are not without jobs for more than four months, are among the proposals i voted in favour of. along with fellow meps i call on the commission and council to set up a european quality charter on traineeships, to ensure their educational value and avoid exploitation. we also welcome the commission’s plan to present a proposal to the council on the youth guarantee and traineeship charter instruments by the end of 2012 and strongly urge member states to approve the proposals by the end of 2012.
in writing. − i voted for this report as i strongly believe in equal pay for male and female workers for equal work or work of equal value.
in writing. − action needs to be taken when it comes to the principle of equal pay for men and women. progress in this area has been slow: some member states have even seen the pay gap become wider. currently, women across the eu earn 16.4% less than men. in addition to this, the gender pay gap can have an adverse effect on women’s pensions and as a result a larger number of women will live in poverty in their old age. although there is some legislation in place to deal with the issue of equal pay, more must be done to make sure this is implemented effectively by member states. i support calls for employers to become more transparent regarding wages, bonuses and other perks paid to staff to ensure that people doing the same job get the same deal. it also goes without saying that the concept of the value of work should be based on qualifications and skills, with the aim of promoting equality between men and women.
in writing. − i, along with the uk conservative delegation, voted against this report. my colleagues and i are firmly committed to closing the gender pay gap. we believe that women must receive equal pay for work of equal value and that women must have equal opportunities in the work place. however, i do not believe that this can be achieved through legislation at the eu level. while this is a non-legislative report, it gives the green light to the commission to legislate on equal pay and to reinforce this legislation with sanctions. legislation is bad for business and bad for women as it may ultimately harm women’s employment opportunities. we have seen how eu employment legislation can do more harm than good, no matter how noble the intentions may be. nevertheless the report highlights how severe the problem of unequal pay remains and the eu must work together to act. we must tackle the inequity of the gender pay gap by sharing best practice, not by imposing top-down legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which finds it deeply regrettable that the swiss authorities decided to re-establish quantitative limitations on the long-term residence permits granted to eu citizens who are nationals of eight of the member states that joined the eu in 2004, thus limiting the free movement of people as provided for in the 1999 agreement with the eu.
mr president, i have listened with great interest to the debate and i am pleased that a number of my colleagues from the delegation for relations with japan have been speaking in favour of the commission stance. but i have a deeper relationship with japan and with the motor industry because i have had the experience – which i do not think anyone else here can claim – of having run a company importing cars into japan, which was very successful. we have heard a lot about cars already, and i just want to make this broader point. this is a package that by any analysis – and we have had a comprehensive analysis now on the table for two years – will generate very large benefits for the european economy, across all sectors. but the key difference between japan and korea is that the japanese market is already open to many european companies in whole areas of branded goods, and by the way that includes automotive goods. what we are dealing with here is a complex set of non-tariff barriers. the scoping study was a response to that and we have moved forward on it. but i want to say, and particularly to colleagues in the ppe group whom i am disturbed to see are speaking in such protectionist terms, that dealing with non-tariff barriers is a far more complex and difficult and deep-seated issue than dealing with tariffs. as chairman of the committee on the internal market, i deal with non-tariff barriers every day of the week. we have more experience in dealing with this than any other grouping in this house. we will not make any substantial progress in the real detail of non-tariff barriers – and i would like to say to mr belet, by the way, that we know what they are with regard to cars; i can tell you what they are, off by heart. it is a question of getting the administrative capability in japan to sort this out and to respond to political leadership. frankly, we will not move forward unless we follow the commission’s line: we actually start those negotiations and we will move forward, but as he says, we will not conclude the agreements until we have got the deal on the table. now, i would say to my colleagues in the ppe group, what on earth is wrong with that and why are you going back on your stance on supporting free trade agreements? i am very pleased that we have had support on the other side of the house and i really hope that you will agree with me that this is the right way forward and we have those safeguards in place. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, we will clearly have a say – if that question was directed at me – because it will come back to us for agreement. that is what the commissioner has said. my point is that this is a really detailed-level set of negotiations. do you want to sit down here as a parliament and decide some of the details on whether we get support for unece legislation on emissions, on how japan deals with particular variants of new models coming from europe, on whether we have common test standards on cars, and on whether we have a particular category of small vehicles that excludes europeans? these are detailed matters which we need to leave the commission and experts to get on with, but we will have a say when it comes back to us. if colleagues in the committee on international trade work with us and the japanese delegation, we will be involved in this as well.
mr president, the future reduction of tariff and non-tariff barriers between two countries, or between one country and a trading bloc, sounds very even-handed and fair, but it is based on the assumption of the existence of comparable markets in each of the two countries or trading blocs. indeed, it is based on an assumption of utility-maximising consumers in each; consumers in each buying goods on the sole criteria of price and quality. however, japanese consumers are as different from western consumers as they are admirable. they do not buy on these criteria alone. they are predisposed to buying japanese goods because they are japanese goods. all of this means that the removal of eu tariffs on japanese goods will be as efficacious as the removal of japanese tariffs on european goods will be irrelevant.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, congratulations to mr fjellner who has done an outstanding job. for once in my life, i am going to actually congratulate the commission and the council because it was one of the few trialogues that i have been on – and i have been in this parliament a long time – where we have actually been able to work as a unit on what i consider to be an excellent proposal. we in the ecr group thoroughly recommend and welcome the deal. we hope that the new regime will not only provide stability and predictability, but will also lead to the promotion of trade focused on development. the asian lesson shows that trade is key to development, and we must do all we can to assist countries to trade their way out of poverty. however, we as a group are a little bit disappointed that the terms of the deal were not more generous from the eu side. we cannot on the one hand say that we want to do all we can to help developing countries, only to back down when we think it seems to hit our bottom line. one of the ladies who have just spoken mentioned those countries which are moving out of gsp, and i believe there should be some sort of assistance or transitional period to help them move on. the other thing that i am always concerned about is that, whenever we discuss trade negotiations within the european union and redo trade agreements, we tend to become rather protectionist. i know that christopher and i believe that protectionism is not only not good for those countries but also destroys us if we are not careful. therefore, it is good to have the proposals that are there. daniel mentioned eba (everything but arms). we have a saying in certain areas of trade policy that it is not just eba, it is eba and sugar, but this is a classic example of how, sometimes, we get tied up in protecting our own systems, and that i would not like to see. however, i think it is a win/win situation. it has been an excellent negotiation and i hope the commission will pass my thanks on to peter thomsen who was one of the negotiators present.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, you will be pleased to know that i will probably not speak for two minutes, so you will save some time for a change. the eu gsp+ scheme allows preferential access to third countries but, in order to qualify for this, a country must sign and ratify 27 international treaties, some of which have far-reaching domestic consequences and some of which do not even have an exit clause. this could be described as colonialism by another name. perversely, many eu states themselves have not even signed the treaties or agreements that they are insisting these lesser developed countries must sign. the agreements have been attacked as being illegal under both un and wto law. furthermore, some countries are so fed up with eu meddling that they are increasingly looking to autocratic china as a preferred trading partner instead. because china does not make these political or legal demands on other trading partners, it is likely to pick this trade up for itself. i am worried about this, i am worried about the upcoming mercosur agreement, and i do wish the eu would stop meddling.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, christopher fjellner, for his hard work and good cooperation. i quite often agree with mr scholz on trade policy, but i fundamentally disagree with him on this matter. we are right to try and focus on the poorest countries in the world. my group did try to include a vulnerability criteria so that some of the vulnerable upper-middle income countries could have been included in this scheme, but that was not carried, and we as a group will support the compromise agreed in the trialogue. it is worth recalling, when we talk about gsp reform, that we still have the most generous scheme in the world for the poorest countries in the world. the everything but arms initiative is unparalleled, and we should be proud of that and proud that it has not been touched in this scheme. i agree with mr rinaldi about the gsp+. he is right to point to the shift in the burden of proof. the weakness in gsp+ up until now has not been the criteria we have set. we have been right to insist on strong human rights and environmental and labour standards, but we have been unable to enforce these so far. this reversal in the burden of proof will make a significant difference, and i welcome it. in terms of where we go from here, i think it is right that the scheme lasts for ten years. i know the commission would have liked an open-ended agreement, but i thought that was too long, and ten years is a reasonable period. what we have made clear in the trialogue is that it is not ten years from now – not ten years from the date of the agreement – but ten years from the date of implementation of the agreement, so this gives importers inside the european union a period of stability and it gives our exporting partners ten years in which to take advantage of the situation. built into this scheme as well there is the flexibility for countries to join if they become poorer countries, and to enter into the scheme at a later stage. all in all, the socialist group would have nuanced the package differently, but we welcome this agreement and as a group we will support it.
mr president, may i firstly welcome the deal that has been struck between the council and parliament, which should allow for transparency and predictability both for the eu’s trading partners in the developing world, and for eu importers. the gsp is, of course, an important tool for development, and the new regime should – and hopefully will – seek to concentrate the benefits of trade on those that need them most. ‘trade, not only aid’ is a slogan i hear often from them. may i congratulate my colleague mr fjellner and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work that they have done on this. i welcome raising the 1 % total trade threshold in the gsp+ to 2 %. back in 2005, myself and my colleague david martin moved an amendment to this effect which was approved by this parliament but was defeated through non-application by the then commissioner for trade, using the pretence of wto non-compliance. now, of course, in a post-lisbon era, i hope we will be able to make the most of the opportunity and deliver the advantages of this system to those countries that will qualify, and ensure that they are able to use this to promote human rights, democracy and freedom of speech in the developing world. there are, of course, some disappointments, but i will reserve those for another day.
madam president, this debate is about the 2008 scheme currently being reviewed. some of the proposed changes are self-evidently beneficial, such as the removal of preferences for high-income or upper-middle income countries. however, it appears that powerful exporters such as china, india, indonesia and thailand, will continue to be part of the scheme, at least for the time being. the changes to the safeguard clauses allowing eu producers the legal right to seek action if they face serious disturbances to their business, or a deterioration of the financial situation, are clearly beneficial. under the graduation process, whereby a country lost its preference if its exports of a product exceeded 15 % of the gsp total, this figure will now, unfortunately, be raised to 17.5 %. in my view, individual states should have the authority of a last word over the withholding of preferences, based on the impact of imports on that state, and not on the exporter’s percentage of the gsp total.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i would like to thank the 15 meps who have bothered to turn up to this debate, which says a little about the state of democracy in the european union. of course, the eu has long since become the great arbiter of law when compared to the parliaments of member states. in the united kingdom, this is most noticeable in the number of acts of parliament that are now passed. before we entered the then eec, typically parliament would pass 60 to 70 acts. today, it is typically around 25. by contrast, our national parliaments now regurgitate thousands of pages of regulations forced on them by the european institutions. this eu parliament, as evidenced by the inexorable decline in turnout at european elections, continues to move ever further away from the people – real people, real voters. as a matter of principle, ukip always opposes the profligate waste of this parliament and of the eu. we know only too well that the eu represents one of the greatest pork barrels ever conceived. vast sums extracted from the pockets of hard-pressed and hard-working taxpayers all over europe are poured into this bottomless barrel. we oppose at every turn the larcenous activities of the eu klepto-state. we shall go on doing it, day in and day out. but, every now and again, we can see the benefit of some expenditure. you are looking at me in great surprise, but the fact is that having access to what is being done in their name is a matter of vital interest to every taxpayer in the european union. if public consultations are not to be available in all of the official languages of the eu, millions of its citizens will be deprived of access to what is being done in their name, and will be deprived of the ability to take part. whilst the commission would doubtless be much happier if large numbers of taxpayers were excluded from much of what is going on, we say that the taxpayer must always be able to access the work of the council and the commission. only thus can taxpayer representatives hold them to account for all the corruption and waste that we know takes place. of course there is one low-cost solution, and actually i have heard it two or three times this evening. do it all in english! that would promote the learning of english across europe, much to the benefit of young people, as it is the lingua franca of so much of the world’s activities. but that might upset the french, and we cannot do that, can we? because this place exists to keep the french happy.
madam president, in recent days we in the united kingdom and across the commonwealth have been celebrating the diamond jubilee of her majesty queen elizabeth ii, marking her 60 years as monarch and her steadfast selfless service. i believe it fitting that this house join with parliaments and politicians across the world in marking this significant milestone by sending warmest congratulations to her majesty and to his royal highness the duke of edinburgh on this diamond jubilee. we can all greatly learn from her majesty’s example. her life and reign epitomise devotion to duty, commitment, sacrifice, courage and impeccable judgment. in return she has the affection, love and respect of people right across the world. we in northern ireland look forward to a visit from her majesty later this month. it will be our opportunity to celebrate, to thank her for her reign over us and to wish her well in the years ahead. for those of us from the united kingdom, our hope and prayer remains the same. god save the queen!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i too was surprised by the council’s move to change the legal base of schengen, but i am even more surprised by colleagues’ reactions here today. this is a time for cool heads and calm consideration. we should not be reacting with a childish tantrum and by throwing our toys out of the pram. we are in very challenging times in europe and we need good working relations with all the institutions. our first step should be to investigate the legal consequences of the council’s actions, but i have sympathy with the member states who unanimously agreed on the change of legal base. the evaluation mechanism is linked to the proposal on temporary border controls, both of which we voted on in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) last night. in both cases we have seen proposals from the commission to create a brussels-based schengen governance, and in both cases the member states strongly disagree, with solid arguments. you will recall article 4 of the treaty on european union, which states that ‘national security remains the sole responsibility of each member state’. in my view, the management of a country’s borders is directly linked to matters of national security. i understand why member states do not want to give up this competence, so let us proceed in an ordered and sensible way with cool heads, rather than this unnecessary reaction.
mr president, over the past two years, as the different measures to solve the eurozone crisis have been decided, the legislation required to implement them has been struggling to catch up. the ‘two-pack’ should do just that: adding the secondary legislation to implement the decisions that were made by the eurozone member states when they demanded monetary missions to greece and others as a condition of financial assistance. we need to proceed quickly, as events continue to unfold in individual member states, and we should not extend the scope. the framework being put in place rightly allows for the different treatment that spain will receive, separating out the concept of recapitalisation of banks from a macroeconomic adjustment plan. yet i have some concerns for those countries which were bailed out earlier and have not been given the benefit of this special treatment. as the details emerge of precisely what terms the spanish government has managed to secure for its banking bailout, the principle of equal treatment must be followed. if a lower interest rate is justified for spain, it must also be considered retrospectively for ireland and its banking bailout. equality in implementation will show true solidarity.
mr president, these proposals are a classic case of too little and too late. greece is under the water and ireland and portugal are not far behind. but now spain, a far larger economy, is having to bail out its own banks. why should private debt be turned into public debt? whether the money comes from the eu or from national treasuries, the story remains the same. the people who are now suffering from severe belt-tightening will be the ones who end up paying for the wrong decisions made by private companies. what this parliament should be demanding is a serious investigation into spain’s banks, notably bankia, to understand how a hole of eur 20 billion could suddenly emerge. bailing out such banks without investigating how and where the money has gone is an act of irresponsibility and contempt towards european citizens. enough is enough. we need to call time on this approach.
mr president, it is not the business of the eu to give instructions to member states on their budgets, even if the instructions were wise and the member states foolish. democracy means rule by the people, and not wise rule by the people. democracies have the right to be foolish. some of the member states might, indeed, have been foolish. however, that does not mean that austerity measures are the answer. putting the populations of debtor countries out of employment will not help them to get out of debt. advice for countries to be frugal should be addressed to them before they get into debt and not when they are heavily indebted. is the answer to borrow even more so they can engage in keynesian expansionism? my advice would be that quantitative easing would be preferable to credit creation and borrowing. however, full payment should be delayed until any resulting production has emerged in goods and services, in order to avoid inflation. but reversion to devalued domestic currency would itself produce export-led growth. that would generate government revenue and reduce debt.
mr president, one in three people in latin america still live below the poverty line. twenty-eight million citizens do not how to read or write and the imf estimated an average gdp growth rate of four and a half percent for 2011. i welcome, therefore, parliament’s report in defining a new development cooperation with latin america, as it rightly acknowledges that the eu needs to assist the region in eradicating poverty and to help promote sustainable economic and social development. the eu should work with the region to support development and stability by reducing social inequalities. as latin america is a growing economic region, it is only sensible that the eu should intensify its role to strengthen existing trade and investment relations with the whole of that region, but particularly brazil and mexico, which are important strategic partners for investment and trade respectively.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on development cooperation with latin america. i am, however, slightly concerned by the commission’s current proposals on the development cooperation instrument, which seeks to reduce bilateral aid from the european union to 11 middle-income countries in latin america and has entirely removed the provision of basic services from its list of priorities for the region. improved political and economic relations with latin america must continue to be a priority for the european union. we already have association agreements with central america, mexico and chile, and hopefully soon with colombia and peru. continuing to build on these relationships will bring major benefits to all parties concerned. i welcome the new pacific alliance recently signed between mexico, chile, peru and colombia, which is a step in the right direction for more regional cooperation, both political and economic, at a time when the pacto andino and mercosur are clearly floundering.
mr president, latin america is a real presentational problem for committed euro-integrationists. here is a region with great cultural and linguistic homogeneity, and there is a political unity of outlook. in every capital city you will find statues of simon bolivar; you will find the same legal system; you find cultural inter-changeability; people watch each other’s abdominal soap operas; they are able to understand each other – even the brazilians can understand south american spanish although, rather unfairly, the reverse is not true – and yet they remain independent countries, despite the best efforts of the european union which has been pouring money into regional cooperation and integration projects. it has done so even to the extent of refusing to sign trade and aid deals with individual states, insisting on block-to-block cooperation. in fact, whereas the eu takes heterogeneity of nations and creates common political institutions, south america is the opposite. now guess which one is growing; guess which one has the more successful rates at the moment, despite some of the far left governments there at the moment. there is a lesson there which is that prosperity comes from competition, diversity, variety and pluralism.
mr president, we all have to be careful when we talk about a region, because in the same way that i am often critical of those who always want a one-size-fits-all solution for europe, we should be careful of a one-size-fits-all approach for latin america. we must recognise that there are countries with varying levels of economic development. if you compare the range from brazil all the way through to bolivia you can see the range of development, and brazil is clearly a power house. the second thing, which is important for me as a member of the european parliament for london, is that we are host to a very large latin-american community in london and we should be taking advantage of those diaspora communities to encourage more trade links with their home countries. but we should also make sure that we encourage development based on trade issues and investment, and get away from this ideology that we sometimes see here that if a service is not provided by the state then it should not be provided at all. we should be encouraging investment in as many services possible – including in education, health and water – to make sure that people are taken out of poverty and live a better life.
mr president, i am hugely supportive of volunteering activities, many of which help ensure a better quality of life for my welsh constituents. as well as having enormous societal value, they also serve to equip individuals volunteering with important skills which can assist them later in becoming more employable. whilst i recognise the importance and merits of promoting cross-border voluntary activities across the eu, and indeed the wider world, i was unable to fully support this report in its current format. i believe that initiatives such as promoting youth volunteering in sport or health and increased cooperation with third countries is of great value. however, i have reservations about the references made in the report concerning its funding. i do not agree that national, regional or local authorities should be mandated to ring-fence funding for organisations involved in volunteering activities. i also cannot support the recommendation for the creation of a new multiannual programme which would effectively guarantee funds to be available for volunteer projects. in these current economically turbulent times authorities should be free to determine whether they would like to earmark funds for these voluntary groups or to direct them towards other projects nationally.
mr president, i abstained on this report on recognising and promoting cross-border voluntary activities within the european union. i do support the idea generally, as i fully believe that volunteering should play an important part in our modern-day society. i am particularly keen to see more volunteering amongst young people in london, which is the region i represent, and this chimes well with prime minister david cameron’s idea of the big society in the united kingdom. however, despite backing its premise, there were aspects of the report itself with which i could not agree. while there may be a call for volunteering to be made easier, i do not agree with the idea that it would be made easier with the creation of a centralised eu portal, as proposed by the rapporteur, or with the establishment of a european skills passport, which sounds very bureaucratic. surely this is something as an issue – the issue of volunteering, even cross-border volunteering – which is best left to the member states and to local and regional governments to organise amongst themselves rather than being regulated at eu level.
mr president, whilst i abstained on this report, i want to make it clear that i fully support the many volunteering activities that take place in my own constituency, in my member state and indeed right across europe. as a parent, how many times have i been grateful for the time and energy that volunteers – particularly in the uniformed organisations like girls’ brigade, boys’ brigade, scouts etc. – have given to the nurturing of my son and daughter? in my own constituency of northern ireland, volunteering underpins much of community life. it is estimated that 280 000 people in northern ireland regularly give their time as volunteers. however, in recent times it has become a matter of concern that many volunteering societies are reporting an increased difficulty in volunteer recruitment. in response to this, i am delighted that in march 2012 northern ireland’s first ever volunteering strategy was launched. it is my hope that through such strategies we can continue to nurture and grow our volunteering sector, making it easier for people to contribute their time and views to create the kind of society in which we all want to live.
mr president, it is important that when we consider volunteering, we actually consider the barriers to volunteering and how we overcome those barriers. consider the case, in my own constituency, of a lady who ran a sunday school for 30 years. suddenly she was presented with paperwork by a local official. she decided to close that sunday school down. consider a friend of mine who was asked to take part in a volunteer football team for local disadvantaged youth. he was sent paperwork of 150 pages. he turned down the opportunity. consider the example of a friend of mine who was going to set up an amateur dramatic society in his local village, to encourage the local youth to come off the streets. when he looked at the issue of liability insurance and health and safety issues, he decided it was too much and decided not to set up that scheme. when you talk to the people affected by them, you find that all these barriers originate from eu legislation and are gold-plated by local civil servants. so, rather than talking about all this bureaucracy of setting up a central portal to encourage volunteering, we should be removing the barriers to volunteering, in order to encourage the benefits to society.
mr president, we know - and the citizens know too - where the bailout of spain will end up. and we know this for the simple reason that we have already seen it in greece and ireland. it will end in deflation, poverty and emigration. the leaders of the european union, increasingly alienated from the people, are making the citizens pay a tremendous price, and they are doing so in the sole interest of keeping their already markedly dysfunctional project alive. spain is a great country, a country of rich resources and of people with a winning spirit. unfortunately, it will not prosper until it is allowed to be independent and manage its economy on the basis of its own interests. the tragedy is not simply that spain has lost its independence; the real tragedy is that they have prolonged their recession. spain, you deserve better.
mr president, with the increased prevalence of cyber-security threats, it is prudent for the eu to develop and review its strategy with regard to key infrastructure projects. cyber-security attacks have been known to cause complete havoc across the eu and globally, with their tactics becoming more and more sophisticated. the effects of an attack can be highly damaging and costly, particularly to businesses, which are often subject to thefts of their intellectual property. my government in the uk has recognised this and listed cyber-security as one of its top priorities. however, these threats do not recognise national borders, and so i support the eu coordinating efforts to counter large-scale attacks. as the eu is not alone in being subjected to these attacks, it is sensible to develop a global coordinated strategy and response, along with private companies, to counter them. i urge a global perspective as we develop all these strategies to counter future cyber-security threats.
mr president, i voted in favour of the kalfin report on critical infrastructure protection in terms of cyber-security against cyber attacks. i believe that the commission’s approach to this is very serious – this is a very serious issue – and it is the right one. this is something which we as the european union, or for that matter the member states alone, do not have the capacity to face; we need international cooperation. so i fully back the commission’s conclusion that we must work harder to form a better global understanding of the risk of cyber-security on the internet and to share best it practice on how to reduce the risk. in order to do this we must improve communications at every level between private and public sectors, between member states and international organisations, in particular within nato, and i therefore back the commission’s calls for the member states to set up – if they have not done so already – national cyber-incidence contingency plans as well as fully operational computer emergency response teams which will, as well as offering heightened protection, be able to share best practice against cyber attacks, including cyber-terrorist attacks, with their counterparts in other member states and also globally, for that matter.
mr president, we have reached the paradox that the spanish people have to feed the beast that is killing them. a financial system corrupted by disastrous decisions. to solve the inefficiencies of the state, a macro-state has been created with more inefficiencies and more bureaucracy. to convey that "whoever makes it, pays for it", citizens are bailing out banks that engaged in practices of questionable morality and sustainability. europe is forcing the people to socialize the waste committed by incompetent governments and irresponsible institutions. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, does any of this make sense? it's a fact, we have to redesign this project since it's gotten out of hand.
mr president, we should all be aware of the range of crimes that could qualify as cyber-crimes – from those numerous e-mails that i receive from the widows of african dictators offering me millions of pounds in my bank account if i give them my bank account details, all the way through to viruses aimed at particular services or servers to ensure a denial of service, therefore affecting users and perhaps military installations as well. but we have to be careful, because in this place, whatever the problem, the solution appears to be more europe and more regulation. my plea is not to use this very important issue of cyber-security as an excuse to impose disproportionate costs or measures on companies, and also to make sure that we do not breach our very own data protection laws and the rights of our citizens. but also, at the same time, why are we using this as an excuse to push something called an eu-wide curriculum on information security? surely this issue is global and we should be pushing for global coordination, not simply more europe.
mr president, with the global population projected to reach nine billion by 2050, global energy demand is forecast to increase by 40% in the shorter period of now until 2030. so competition for scarce fossil fuels will grow accordingly. member states within the eu need to develop and coordinate their energy policies with all strategic partners, particularly given the current challenges we are facing in energy security. some member states are becoming increasingly interconnected with respect to their energy supply already, so a coordinated eu approach may help energy security for the eu as a whole. it is similarly important for the eu to look to a number of new countries to supply its energy, in order to avoid reliance on a small number of suppliers. there is a need to strengthen relationships with key strategic partners, including russia. although i strongly support the importance of diversification and infrastructure development to enhance our energy security, i am unable to support the demand for the commission to be involved in all member states’ energy negotiations with third countries, regardless of whether its assistance is required or requested. this is clearly against the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore abstained on this report.
mr president, i abstained on this report for one very important reason. i do not accept that member states should have a mandatory obligation to involve the european commission in discussions and agreements on energy generation and supply contracts. it may be appropriate bilaterally. that is up to them. i would like to specifically mention the bilateral memorandum of understanding signed by the uk and iceland on 30 may 2012. the two parties have pledged, amongst many other things, to exchange information on development of the deep geothermal sector. this is a clean, environmentally sustainable energy source, an area where iceland is a clear technological leader globally and has much to teach us. the uk is testing this technology and will greatly benefit from this relationship. the agreement also explores the possibility of developing electricity interconnection between iceland and the uk. this is two competent sovereign nations working together to mutual benefit. i see no benefit at all in insisting that these arrangements be approved with the dead hand of the commission.
mr president, i think we can see a rationale why, in an increasingly interconnected world, it is important that we look at energy cooperation and coordination – with coordination, not coercion, being the key – particularly when some countries are concerned about over-dependence on russia for energy supplies. but when we are looking at energy supplies we should be looking at diversification and barriers to new supplies. let us look at issues such as more micro-generation; let us look at how we continue to use fossil fuels by using technologies such as carbon capture to make sure it is used in a clean way; let us look at how we can use palm oil stearin and other non-edible by-products of palm oil to ensure better energy diversification; and let us look at the issue of nuclear power. but let us also look at bureaucracy getting in the way of supplies. this year in may, british gas group pulled out of building a liquefied natural gas terminal in brindisi in south italy after 11 years and investing eur 250 million – because of local bureaucracy. it is that sort of bureaucracy that does more to harm the supply of energy than anything else. let us get rid of the bureaucracy instead of giving more power to the commission and negotiating positions to the commission.
mr president, with the session drawing to its close, may i, on behalf of all the members, thank you and your staff for your patience in presiding over it. we have been working our leisurely way through this voting list oblivious, it seems, to what is happening on our doorsteps. hundreds of millions of euros are being withdrawn from banks around the mediterranean. it is now a toss up as to whether cyprus or italy will be the next in line for a bailout. we have been told up until now by all the euro optimists that spain was different from all the other countries because it did not have the same debt level. well, that is no longer true. it has just increased its liabilities by one hundred billion euros. the money is coming from countries which are themselves running deficits. we are giving ourselves a transfusion from one arm to the other.
in that case, mr president, i will finish by saying that it is crazy for indebted countries to be guaranteeing debts to other indebted countries ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, thank you for your patience for all these explanations of vote. i just want to draw attention to paragraph 55 of the resolution which we voted on today. my group voted against paragraph 55 because, although we feel we should be developing cooperation with other countries to secure our energy future, we believe we should do so in the context of our commitment to tackle global climate change. some of what is said in that paragraph we feel – i feel – does not meet that requirement so i voted against that paragraph and i also voted against the final report. we need to look at these issues about oil sands, tar sands and shale gas but we need to do so looking at our commitment to cut our carbon emissions. we cannot ignore that when we are looking at energy cooperation.
in writing. − by pouring money into ailing sectors left stranded by over-regulation and exacerbated by the perpetuated single currency crisis the eu is effectively writing off an important spanish industry. given better flexibility to compete with countries able to manufacture at a much cheaper cost, i have no doubt the spanish footwear market could flourish. it has a global reputation and is an industry spain should fight to preserve. the egf will do for unique industries what bail outs have done for member states' economies, which is to weaken their resolve and force them to subsume within a wider european ideology. i would rather see brussels lift the restrictive and destructive regulation placing a stranglehold on business and allow member states to leave the single currency than continue pumping liquidity from a centrally harvested fund in return for control.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis. the spanish authorities describe the redundancies in the comunidad valenciana region against a background of radical change in the distribution of footwear production. third countries, specifically china and india, increasingly dominate the world trade in footwear, and countries such as vietnam and indonesia continue to increase their share of world production. the spanish authorities argue that, according to available data imports of footwear from non-eu countries into the eu increased almost 6% during the period 2006-2009 while eu exports declined by 16.4% during the same period. as a direct consequence of the fall in exports, the number of footwear producers in eu-27 decreased: in 2008 there were only 24 000 producers in the eu while in 2005 there were still 27 125. this reduction (11.58%) in the number of firms had a direct impact on employment: 78 800 direct jobs – representing almost 20% of the total – were lost in the sector during the period 2005-2008.
in writing. − it is vital during events of natural disaster that nations pull together to help one another. however i refuse the right of the european union to act as arbiter for such judgements.
in writing. − liguria and tuscany following devastating floods. this fund is crucial for providing funding to areas which have suffered from natural disasters and other serious crises. however, for this fund to be successful in the future, and for funding to be granted promptly, we need to make its application simpler and more transparent. the unnecessary delay caused by the commission seeking funding through negative reserves was completely avoidable, and this practice is completely unacceptable to me and the majority of member states. thankfully the danish presidency presented a compromise in which the necessary funding was found from a reallocation of under-implemented lines in the european energy plan. although this reallocation is a messy solution, it is preferable to using negative reserves. i hope this money will go some way towards relieving the suffering of those affected by the floods.
in writing. − i voted for draft amending budget (dab) no 2 for the year 2012 which covers the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for an amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations relating to flooding in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011.
in writing. − it is vital during events of natural disaster that nations pull together to help one another. however i refuse the right of the european union to act as arbiter for such judgements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide much needed aid to liguria and tuscany following devastating floods. this fund is crucial for providing funding to areas which have suffered from natural disasters and other serious crises. however, for this fund to be successful in the future, and for funding to be granted promptly, we need to make its application simpler and more transparent. the unnecessary delay caused by the commission seeking funding through negative reserves was completely avoidable, and this practice is completely unacceptable to me and the majority of member states. thankfully the danish presidency presented a compromise in which the necessary funding was found from a reallocation of under-implemented lines in the european energy plan. although this reallocation is a messy solution, it is preferable to using negative reserves. i hope this money will go some way towards relieving the suffering of those affected by the floods.
in writing. − i supported this commission proposal to mobilise the european solidarity fund in favour of italy on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the iia allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the first proposal to mobilise the fund in 2012. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund in favour of italy, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (dab no 2/2012 of 16 march 2012) in order to enter in the 2012 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the iia.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund does not work. this application, from the commission, for funds to cover the cost of technical assistance, is essentially eur 200 000 of taxpayers' money to be spent on eu 'propaganda'. videos and information leaflets will be produced to highlight the 'wonderful' work of the egf and how its proliferation will help protect the european union from the realities of globalisation, including eur 250 000 to be spent on networking activity, or in other words, a chance for interested parties to have a nice meal at the taxpayers' expense. the most destructive force placing a stranglehold on european business in the context of a global marketplace is the deluge of regulation emanating from brussels. i would rather the money be spent on a thorough evaluation of the fund. i will continue to vote against any further egf funding.
in writing. − i voted against mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the simple reason that it does not work and is a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money. this application, from the commission, is for funds to cover the cost of technical assistance, but what does that really mean? it means that we have just voted for eur 200 000 to be spent on ‘propaganda’. videos and information leaflets will be produced to highlight the wonderful work of the egf and how its proliferation will help protect the european union from the realities of globalisation. nobody is buying this myth, not least the taxpayer. we have also voted in favour of eur 250 000 to be spent on networking activity, or in other words, a chance for interested parties to have a nice meal at the taxpayers’ expense. if we are to spend any money on this pointless scheme, i would prefer that we spent it on a thorough evaluation of the fund. supporting wasteful funding like this brings this parliament into disrepute. i want it to go on the record that i voted against this report and will continue to vote against any further egf funding.
in writing. − i supported this proposal for the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. according to article 8(1) of the legal basis, 0.35% of the annual maximum amount of the egf can be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. a maximum of eur 1.75 million can be used each year in order to cover the indicated needs for the implementation of the fund.
in writing. − the eu must continue rising to the current global challenges and improve the efficiency of its aid, but at the same time it must commit the necessary resources so that millions of children do not grow up without the possibility of developing their capacities and improving their living conditions. this objective is a goal for everyone and is brought before the eu and all europeans, despite the crisis, as the most compassionate and humane project ever developed, a responsibility that must be shared and supported by the countries of the region, encouraging regional cooperation and strengthening south-south cooperation.
in writing. − this measure calls for a relaxation of visa policy and demands more funding programmes to ensure volunteers have access to social security benefits when in another country. it is essential during times of austerity that matters such as funded volunteering are a national prerogative and are determined on a needs only basis, not imposed centrally at eu level. it is a method by the european commission to mask the true extent of youth unemployment in afflicted member states yet simply shifts the economic toll onto other countries without tackling the real issues at the crux of the problem. it is also my belief that the determination of who lives and works, albeit in a voluntary capacity, and who is entitled to welfare is a matter of sovereign consideration.
in writing. − after a full year of initiatives that has seen volunteers across europe engage in promotion, information and awareness-raising activities, the european year of voluntary activities promoting active citizenship (2011) has just come to an end, passing the baton to 2012, the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. this will be another important occasion to reflect on the value of volunteering in everyday life and to give older people the chance to make their own contribution to the growth of solidarity in the community. in light of the many initiatives and debates during 2011, it has been shown that voluntary activities are a tool for individuals and associations to tackle human needs and concerns, whether social, intergenerational or environmental. emphasis has been placed on volunteering as an expression of active citizenship in all spheres of social life and as an essential activity for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and subsidiarity. volunteering silently assumes the role of catalyst for social change and is an indispensable tool in encouraging the active support of society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for a legal framework and clear rules for volunteering and volunteers in all member states. it is important that volunteering is recognised throughout the eu as it makes an essential contribution to our society. it is also especially important to ensure that the sector continues to make this contribution, and in order to do this, support must be given to fund the volunteering sector through cohesion policy. without a doubt, the skills gained through volunteering add value to a cv and should be recognised as a way of making people more employable. this resolution, which has my full support, also highlights the need for the skills and knowledge gained through volunteering to be recognised in order to help volunteers as they look for employment.
in writing. − whilst the matter of cyber security is ever pressing in today's online environment and is an issue, due to the very nature of the worldwide web, which must be addressed via international cooperation, i would not trust a european quango to exercise control in this area. matters of free speech, the determination of what constitutes illegal activity and ways in which the internet should be regulated are extremely sensitive and demand a careful handling that does not impinge upon the freedoms of the individual or sovereign law. while there is an urgent call for tighter regulation of the internet, this is being used as a tool to promote 'more europe' and thus more regulation, representing a significant power shift to brussels.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on the commission to propose an eu framework for the notification of security breaches in critical sectors such as energy, transport, water and food supply, as well as in the ict and financial services sectors, to ensure that relevant member state authorities and users are notified of cyber incidents, attacks or disruptions.
in writing. − i fully support the proposals in this report for a comprehensive cyber-security strategy for europe. cyber warfare is a real threat and europe’s critical information infrastructure must be protected from cyber attacks, which could potentially harm citizens and businesses. international cooperation was highlighted in the report as an essential element in order to keep europe safe from online threats. better education about online threats is also vitally important and the report calls for the commission to launch an education initiative that would ensure internet users throughout the eu are aware of potential threats.
in writing. − it is vital during a time of decreasing fuel supplies which entails sensitive inter-country negotiation on the share of resources that nations may act independently to decide how best to sustain energy security domestically. the eu now controls all aspects of uk energy policy, taking away our independence in this most vital of areas, from the imposition of nuclear safety rules and the formation and regulation of new energy trade partners. fuel is as important to the preservation of society and the economy as food supply and thus has the ability to expose importing countries to hard bargaining from those countries with resources to share. the commission wishes to be involved in the energy negotiations of all member states with third countries, which is clearly against the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − i voted for this report and would like to underline that sustainable energy is a key driver of development, and reiterate its call for a specific ‘energy and development’ programme with a special focus on renewable, energy-efficient, small-scale and decentralised energy solutions and the promotion of capacity development and technology transfer in order to ensure local ownership. the report notes that large-scale renewable energy schemes may be necessary in order to meet in a sustainable way the growing energy demand from urban centres and industry, particularly in emerging countries; it calls for such schemes to adhere in all cases to the highest social and environmental criteria.
in writing. − this report, which i have supported, calls for a better harmony and coordination of energy policy across the eu in order to ensure that europe’s voice is heard worldwide. we must adapt our approach to the issue and secure access to long-term energy solutions for citizens and businesses. in addition to this, europe’s high safety and environmental standards as well as the valuable energy technologies that are developed in the eu could be better promoted to third countries to spread these standards throughout the world. the recommendations in this report are a positive step towards creating a functioning and integrated eu energy market.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, my apologies to the house and also to the vice-president/high representative, as i was slightly delayed at the start of the debate. i welcome, and strongly and warmly support, the moves that the vice-president/high representative has made towards appointing an eu special representative for human rights. as i am sure the high representative said today, and as she has said on other occasions, this is the first ever thematic special representative to be appointed in connection with europe’s common foreign and security policy. so when we say that we take human rights seriously and regard it as a priority, this is a very concrete instance of doing what we say. it also represents a strengthening of the commitment to human rights compared to the excellent work of ms riina kionka, mr solana’s former personal representative for human rights. the new special representative will deal on behalf of the high representative with the council, the commission and – i am sure we will make adequate arrangements for this – with parliament itself. i do want to repeat today in the debate, as we said in the resolution and in previous debates, that i would like this post to be a very high-level, visible representation of the high representative and of the european union, with a representative who is able to be a big player for europe with third country governments, in the un human rights council and in discussions involving the international criminal court. i see this as an extremely important means of giving us much greater strength and ‘clout’ in delivering messages on human rights than we have had in the past. i see the special representative’s role as something that, for europe and the european union, will be akin to the work undertaken by the under-secretary for human rights in the united states department of state. i see this appointment as a very important opportunity to achieve that aim. if i may repeat today what i have already said in private to the high representative: i want this to be not just another political appointment, but the appointment of someone who is eminent in their credentials on human rights and human rights law. i do not think we as a parliament should intervene in the process of selecting candidates; i think that should be left to the high representative, and the high representative alone. i would, however, like someone who has a serious and unparalleled record of working in human rights and human rights law, with high-level legal qualifications in human rights, to be appointed to this post. i invite the high representative to give that the highest priority when she makes the appointment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr howitt, you seem not to be very much in favour of political appointments. would you say that the appointment of the high representative herself was a political appointment, or not?
blue-card answer. – if the honourable gentleman had listened to my speech, he would have heard me speak against political appointments, but then he did not listen to my speech, just as he does not listen to anything in the europe debate.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, human rights or no human rights, will the special representative still get the 12 weeks’ paid holiday a year which is standard in the shambles that is the external action service? we know that what the eu calls human rights has the consequence that we in the uk cannot protect ourselves from abu qatada and his kind. abu qatada’s so-called human rights are sacrosanct. in the meantime, you could not care less when it comes to the victims of the european arrest warrant. i would cite the case of andrew symeou, who at 18 was held in greece by means of the european arrest warrant for almost three years, 11 months of which were in the notorious korydallos prison. after the three years he was let go. it had been a case of mistaken identity all along. the european arrest warrant has caused the surrender of over 700 uk citizens or residents to harsh and alien legal systems in continental europe. we are all at risk. i would suggest, calmly and politely – although this is a subject that makes me angry – that on human rights you get your own house in order before posturing elsewhere. as i was about to say before i was inappropriately interrupted in march 2010, the high representative, like the bourbons, has forgotten nothing and has learned nothing.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would be interested to know what my colleague feels about mr howitt’s response. not only was mr howitt rude by not turning up at his allotted speaking time, but he actually did not answer the question at all. if this chamber had any credibility, these blue card questions would be respected. mr howitt was asked a question after he said that he did not agree with political appointments; he was asked what he thought of ms ashton’s appointment, which was political. what does my colleague think about mr howitt’s reply?
blue-card answer. – madam president, can i have one second to answer ms sinclaire’s question? mr howitt is a frightfully important person who obviously regards himself as exempt from the normal rules of politics and civility. that is clear. as far as mr tavares is concerned, i suspect that he and i do not agree on most political issues. but it may surprise mr tavares to find that i strongly agree that there should be – if that is indeed his point of view – accountability, that there should be transparency. the fact of the matter is that with these european institutions, there is not proper transparency and there is not proper accountability. that is one of the reasons we object to them, but not the only reason.
madam president, on a point of order under the rule on making a personal statement, i want to show civility and courtesy to most of the people in this chamber who do not come from my country, the united kingdom, by not boring you to tears with an intra-british political argument which has no relevance to this debate.
madam president, first of all, i did actually ask a question. if i used the words ‘does my colleague agree with me’, that usually begins a question. now for my speech. in 1776, thomas jefferson institutionalised the concept of human rights in the us declaration of independence, and today’s us ambassadors around the world have the responsibility for projecting that concept wherever they may be. in my country, great britain, human rights matters come under the auspices of the ministry of justice, but these models are apparently not good enough for the european union. the rapporteur calls for a special representative for this policy area, complete with his or her budget lines and dedicated staff. it is not, of course, within the realm of possibility that the existing eu overseas delegations could shoulder this responsibility. might that eat into their four-day weeks and prolonged holiday entitlements? there are incidentally 119 such delegations. surely, at a time of eu-enforced austerity, in situ apparatus should be used, rather than creating new, expensive departments. one aspect of the report i do agree with is that if a special representative for human rights should be appointed, they should have the necessary professional qualifications, extensive experience and a proven track record in the field of human rights, as well as personal and professional integrity and an international reputation. the high representative may feel a little embarrassed at this valid point as these criteria were clearly overlooked in her appointment.
madam president, the report refers to freedom of expression, including on the internet. only a few months ago, the commissioner for home affairs was advocating the criminal prosecution of the dutch freedom party because of the content on its party website. many member states prosecute and imprison people for publishing heretical opinions in speech, written word or in electronic form. the freedom to express oneself is important, but not as important as the freedom to hear or read what has been said or written by others. the british government is currently proposing a law – the communications data bill – which will provide the security services with access to all of the internet sites visited by everyone in the united kingdom. if somebody in a sensitive government job were, just out of curiosity, to log onto a website disapproved of by a party, that person’s job would be at risk. freedom of association is mentioned in the report, but there have been bans or attempted bans on parties in belgium and germany. in the eu, human rights are for export only. perhaps the person appointed as a special representative will pay attention to these matters.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her kind words about my own report as the previous annual rapporteur on human rights. i will be working, of course, with our next rapporteur on human rights, mr donskis, who will speak next. with him i know that the high representative and her services have made a major effort to get the timetable back on track and to ensure that she herself is present to deliver this annual human rights report to our plenary. i would like to sincerely thank her and her services for restoring this important action. i want to place on record that i agree with many of the conclusions of the report. this was indeed a momentous year for human rights and democracy building in which we have all – the eu included – had to step up to the task. i agree that this report, in a sense, will be the last of its kind, as next year we will be able to report and debate on implementation of the strategic review on human rights. in this context, i applaud, for example, the eu’s action to protest against the arrest of bloggers exercising their freedom of expression, the new consensus the eu has now forged in eu institutions on freedom of religion and belief, the unanimous support of eu members of the human rights council for the groundbreaking resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity, the new common position on the international criminal court, and, as the high representative has said herself, the successful eu observation missions. i would like to thank her for what she said this afternoon about nabeel rajab, who i know, thanks to this wonderful world of social media. i would be grateful if in her response she could comment about the four icc staff who are currently detained in libya. finally, although i have been proud to contribute personally to the work of the mandate holder leading to the guiding principles on business and human rights, i would like the high representative to charge an identified person within her services to spearhead their implementation within the european union and to follow up the recommendations of the edinburgh study detailed in her last annual report.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i commend ms jäätteenmäki on this resolution which is on the whole a helpful and positive assessment of a very important issue. of course the arms trade treaty is just that: a trade treaty, and not a disarmament treaty. over the years i have been much involved in the campaign to ban anti-personnel landmines. that was different in that it was about eliminating a certain very specific weapon, often used indiscriminately and with terrible consequences, mainly by terrorist and insurgent groups. there were those that constantly sought to widen the scope of the resultant ottawa treaty into other fields, so it is important that we are clear about the limited purposes of this arms trade treaty which would not interfere in the right of a state to decide nationally on its arms export controls in compliance with internationally agreed criteria. the uk has a special interest in these matters. it is of course europe’s leading arms exporter. it was also, by the way, one of the co-authors of the un general assembly resolution of 6 december 2006 that called for an internationally agreed arms trade treaty to be drawn up. i am pleased the resolution has not misunderstood or diminished the important role that defence industries play in terms of national security and in our economies. clearly in discussing these matters we are entering into important and sensitive areas of national sovereignty and it is unfortunate, therefore, that the resolution, perhaps inevitably, bows in the direction of what i would term ‘eu federalist competence creep’. for example, i do not understand why a coherent and consistent eu approach is crucial for this treaty to be adopted and effectively implemented at a global level, or indeed why there is any point in the involvement of an eu delegation separate from member states in negotiations. what is more important is that we put diplomatic effort into ensuring that countries such as china, pakistan and russia are signed up to the highest possible standards, rather than wasting valuable time harmonising european positions that are already very similar. attention is focused on abuse too often, and i saw this over the ottawa treaty negotiations. we in a democracy indulge in debilitating self-flagellation, while the real abusers just carry on.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there has been significant opposition, especially in america and canada, to the un arms trade treaty. while the control and regulation of international arms trading is necessary, there is a distinct lack of recourse to discrepancies in public opinion internationally with regard to this particular debate. many households in america have handguns and a great number of families in canada use guns for hobby and hunting purposes. however, in the uk few people have access to small firearms. those who use guns for illicit purposes are unlikely to be swayed from criminal behaviour by the introduction of new legislation, although pan-national cooperation to restrict the availability of arms on the black market is something i vehemently support. the eu may have broad-reaching control of trade in europe, but designating a single european stance in this area represents a sizeable foray into the realm of foreign affairs and thus encroaches upon the prerogatives of both nato and national governments. by doing so, the eu is effectively mounting a subversive campaign against public opinion across the atlantic.
madam president, i have two questions to ask baroness ashton as the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. firstly, i do not understand what the eu role is in this united nations arms trade treaty. here is a very welcome agreement concluded by the intra-governmental united nations with 193 nation states involved – only zimbabwe voted against it – so nation states and the un are at one. why, then, do we need a supranational trespasser, in the form of the eu, to muscle in on the action? a second related question is what role does the european defence agency (eda) have, given its arms export control policy? at least eda, again, is international, not supranational. but why did it allegedly take you from 1 december 2009, when you were appointed as head of the eda, to january 2012 – two years – to actually visit its premises? it is only 15 minutes from your brussels office. is it actually so low priority?
madam president, this is my last speech of the afternoon. with apologies to the high representative, since the detail of this debate is important, i just want to say in one minute that we are on the verge of a historic achievement. we have had the eu code of conduct on arms exports stopping irresponsible transfers of arms to those who would use them for oppression or human rights abuse. we now have the chance to enshrine this in a global convention and prevent what are estimated to be half a million deaths each year. yes, we must be self-critical about bad decisions in the past, including the supply of arms from the european union that were subsequently used against unarmed protestors, for example in libya, bahrain and yemen. but we should also celebrate the leadership given from europe for this treaty: the european parliament’s own leading role in consistently calling for a legally binding treaty; that eu countries have been unanimous in their agreement of amnesty international’s rigorous golden rule within the treaty text; and i hope you do not mind if i also draw attention to the former british labour foreign secretaries, the late robin cook and subsequently david miliband, for their personal contribution to what i end by repeating will be a historic achievement.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group utterly condemns the barbaric atrocities perpetrated against innocent civilians, including women and children, by the al-assad ba’athist regime in syria. damascus has turned its paramilitary thugs against its own citizens. the so-called ‘shabiha’ are beyond control and are increasingly acting with total impunity. their atrocities have actually shocked the international community and are reminiscent in my view of the unspeakable atrocities of the balkans 20 years ago. considering the rapidly deteriorating situation, it is clear now that the annan plan has sadly failed, so russia must now step up and use its unique leverage on damascus to effect change and reverse its security council veto, thus unblocking the path for robust international action on syria to prevent further bloodshed and pave the way, hopefully, for a democratic regime change with al-assad well gone. russia must be aware that its credibility now is seriously at stake in the arab world. china will surely follow the russian lead. clearly, the international community must now look to the arab league for guidance, but i am not sure about saudi arabia and qatar alone, because they are not entirely credible in my view as they are not true democracies and they are far too close politically speaking, and even arming the salafists. the syrian national council must now be more united. we must work on that, so all options are open to the west including now an arms embargo and even limited military intervention to protect further civilian atrocities. all this must remain on the table to avert further descent into an all-out sectarian civil war, or even rwanda or srebrenica-style genocide. we should also consider proposing a fresh resolution in the security council to indict al-assad and his henchmen before the icc. turkey of course is a key player and ultimately is a democracy with the military might to intervene, if it so wishes, at its borders, to impose a humanitarian safe corridor if necessary. iran, which is dragging its feet, as you well know high representative, with the eu and the iaea over nuclear negotiations, will do everything it can to support its damascus ally and its proxy hezbollah, but the eu has no interest whatsoever, ms brantner, in supporting either of these two brutal regimes. iran does not belong in the contact group, i am sorry.
mr president, the high representative, spoke of the situation in syria, which should concern us all. a ghastly human tragedy is unfolding: in haffa, in houla, in hreitan, women and children are being shot at random, and children are being tortured – and allegedly even used as human shields. violence is rife and, despite her attempt to revive its corpse, the annan plan is dead. yes, syria has air defences much stronger than those of libya; true, the opposition there is weak and divided, and nowhere in control. indeed, troops will be needed on the ground. high representative, this is no longer a time for seminars. the right to intervene and the responsibility to protect are part of un doctrine. ban ki-moon can call on nato or others to intervene, and on the international criminal court to investigate. you should urge him to.
thank you very much for passing on the good news about asmaa mahfouz who, as you said, was a sakharov prize winner last year. thank you also for keeping in touch with her.
mr president, it might be said that our return to this subject simply demonstrates our own impotence as, week after week, month after month, we see these crimes against humanity going on and, whatever we appear to say in this house or in the international community, we do not appear to be able to make a difference. but i believe it is better for us to try to ask the questions, to search for solutions and to show our ceaseless engagement in seeking to do so, even if that sometimes exposes our own shortcomings, than to ignore the situation or turn away from it. that is why it is right that we hold this debate today. i ask the high representative to comment further as to why, if we introduced further sanctions as the british foreign secretary has said this week, such sanctions would be more effective in making a difference than the ones we have already imposed? i do not say that to criticise him or my own country, but it is a question that i think should be seriously asked. we should ask again for contingency planning for the creation of humanitarian corridors, backed by a european common security and defence policy mission. it is not universally popular but, after president hollande said what he did, i think at least showing that contingency planning is going on is the right thing to do. i join all those others in the debate who have described as repulsive the use of children as human shields, as reported by the un. that practice must end; it is a symbol of why everything needs to change in that country, syria.
mr president, we know that the eu is a major payer. can the vice-president encourage arab states to pay more, perhaps by the incentive of bringing the arab league into the otherwise ineffective quartet? what steps is she taking to make israel understand that the gaza blockade is illegal and must be lifted now? and, can she encourage eu member states to follow the lead of the netherlands in negotiating direct trade arrangements with horticultural and agricultural producers in gaza? and finally, can she encourage the active lobbying by her department and sensible palestinians of the us congress in the run-up to the us elections, so that just possibly the usa might begin to play an even hand.
mr president, i would like to thank baroness ashton for her extensive statement on the middle east peace process and on the situation in syria. like many colleagues in this house, i also want to express my horror at the killing, maiming and torture of young children in the region. she quite rightly points to the eu humanitarian aid that has been given to syria and i look forward to a time when she comes back to this house and explains to us how it has been administered and how she has monitored its effectiveness. i think that is very important for the future. the fact remains that the fighting goes on in syria and that, as most of us have said here today, the annan plan has failed. indeed kofi annan, when he is talking about this, seems resigned to the fact that his plan has failed. his monitors seem to rush about going from one atrocity to the next, yet baroness ashton has indicated that it is really the only option that is on the table. i would just like her to explain to the house how long she sees this plan having international legitimacy, or is it really just a cover for not being able to do anything else?
mr president, i would like to congratulate baroness ashton for her part in securing the council conclusions on the middle east peace process of 14 may because i think they are a good illustration of how strong support for israel’s security and close engagement with israel – as well, of course, for the two-state solution – is entirely consistent with outspoken criticism of illegalities and human rights abuses by israel, such as illegal settlement, forced transfer of bedouins, home demolitions and so on. that is my own position, which is why i support approval of the acaa (agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products) protocol on recognition of pharmaceutical products, while feeling entirely free to reproach israel on some matters, as well as palestinians on some others. could i ask, in the context of the high representative mentioning her condemnation of administrative detention in israel whether she will call for mahmoud al-sarsak and other prisoners on prolonged hunger strike to be admitted to civilian hospitals for specialised medical care, and whether she will call on israel to release administrative detainees unless they are promptly charged and brought to fair trial? i should add that we also need to be outspoken about what the carnegie endowment has recently called the unaccountable and authoritarian hamas government in gaza.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the elections in the drc last year did return president kabila back to power. however, the elections themselves lacked the unequivocal legitimisation of being certified as free and fair, due to incomplete monitoring of the ballot, and there were widespread reports of voter coercion and other irregularities that, as of yet, remain unresolved. i applaud the significant contributions the eu and my own country, the uk, made towards monitoring this exercise in democracy, mindful of the vast size and strategic importance of the drc. election observation missions are one area in which the eu can bring real value-added to global democracy. i have participated in them myself in the past. kabila should now concentrate on ensuring that his administration is fully transparent and works towards recognised international standards of good governance, fighting widespread corruption, promoting transparency in the extractive industries, upholding the rule of law, protecting human rights for all drc citizens and, in particular, as mentioned, investigating recurrent stories of atrocities in eastern congo and bringing those in the irregular militias and armed groups to justice.
mr president, in may, president barroso bragged of the eu and its member states throwing eur 1.2 billion a year down the afghan drain. but eur 1.2 billion is only a fraction of the true cost. britain’s contribution alone to the afghan farce, according to the british ministry of defence, is already over gbp 18 billion, plus gbp 3 billion in aid, plus gbp 4 billion in equipment that is to be left behind, plus gbp 5 billion that will be screwed out of the british taxpayer to run afghanistan for a further 30 years. most importantly, 417 british dead are the highest price of all and the most obscene, because it is a war that has nothing to do with britain. we should bring our troops home at once and put the neo-con crooks who sent them there on trial as war criminals.
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, you say that we must not keep muddling through, that we need a systemic, comprehensive, universal solution to the problems which we face. i agree. you are absolutely right. but surely it is time to recognise that the euro has failed, that the european union has failed and that the solution is to start to dismantle both. why is it you call for more europe, when you are surrounded by the ruin of europe. why are you trying to reinforce failure?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, europe is facing yet another in its long line of crises, only this time, in my view, it is fast becoming a crisis of the legitimacy of the eu itself. many of us warned that a monetary union with a light touch, which was envisaged in the maastricht treaty, could not work and, for a single currency to succeed, significant centralisation of power would be required – a centralisation which for many of us was totally unacceptable. that is where the eu finds itself today. it is bringing more centralisation upon itself in what is an increasingly desperate attempt to get ahead of the crisis, which so far it has completely failed to do. when the markets are unimpressed, when the spanish banks are lent eur 100 billion, then there is a clear signal that the failure is continuing. this latest spanish bailout lasted barely 24 hours before it was, as mr verhofstadt said, being questioned on the markets. if i can use a somewhat crude analogy, it is a little bit like wetting your pants at the north pole. at first it feels warm and comforting but very quickly you realise just how much trouble you are in fact in. let me make two points. first, it would be unacceptable that the measures it is proposed we take should fall upon those who proposed originally to steer clear of this risky venture and, second, those countries who signed up to join a single currency with one set of governing rules should not now be obliged to join a single currency with a completely different set of governing rules. so those countries that are not yet in the euro should be released from their obligation to join. over the last 20 years, the eu has become ever more out of touch with public opinion, and that has shown in many recent elections and referendums. the people of europe are becoming increasingly worried about centralisation, and about the remoteness of those who are gaining more power in the eu by the day. in no area is this seen more starkly than the management of the eu budget. the commission talks about synergies, about investments, about added value, and the public just sees waste, mismanagement and fraud. an even bigger budget is being requested. the public just wonders why it is that for 17 years in succession the budget has been implemented with significantly high levels of illegal or irregular payments. people here are complaining that the concept of value for money is somehow getting in the way of european solidarity. the public just wonders how on earth one can justify wanting even more money when the money already being spent is spent so badly. to win back public legitimacy and regain trust the eu needs to take reform seriously, it needs to respond to the needs of the people and not impose ideas upon them. make no mistake, when we are facing so many different crises on so many fronts, we are very fast running out of time. (applause from the ecr group) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, mr callanan is among those who urge the european union to get its act together. but does he not accept that if the european union is going to be a success as a monetary union – without the uk, as seems to be the case – then it will need to do things which will have an impact on the united kingdom. therefore, it is illogical to call for the european union to sort out the problems which it faces and yet to say that it may do nothing that will in anyway impinge upon the single market. does mr callanan not accept that if the european union is to do this it will need an adequate budget to do so?
blue-card answer. – i accept that, for a single currency to work, there has to be a whole series of different measures. there have to be significant fiscal transfers from the richer states to the poorer states. it is fine for me to say that as somebody who is quite happily outside the single currency. if i were a german taxpayer, i might have one or two concerns about it. as for this issue of the budget – that somehow a euro spent at european level somehow magically appears from this magical money tree without any impact on national budgets – i just say one thing. it is surely illogical for the commission – for mr lewandowski and mr barroso – to be saying to member states: ‘you have to impose austerity, you have to reduce your budget, you have to get your fiscal balances under control – oh, but by the way, we want more of your cash taken to a european level to spend on your behalf because we know how to spend it better than you do.’ member states are not sitting there with large piles of cash. they are all running fiscal deficits. what the commission is saying to them is: ‘we want you to add to your fiscal deficit in order to give us more money because somehow our spending lots of money at a european level will solve the crisis.’ frankly, only a liberal democrat could believe that would be the solution to the crisis. (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, another one bites the dust. country no 4, spain, gets bailed out, and we all of course know that it will not be the last. however, i wondered over the weekend whether perhaps i was missing something, because the spanish prime minister mr rajoy said that this bail-out shows what a success the eurozone has been. i thought, well, having listened to him over the previous couple of weeks telling us there would not be a bail-out, i have the feeling, after all his twists and turns, that he is just about the most incompetent leader in the whole of europe – and that is saying something because there is pretty stiff competition! indeed every single prediction of yours, mr barroso, has been wrong, and dear old herman van rompuy, well, he has done a runner has he not? the last time he was here he told us we had turned the corner and, that the euro crisis was over; he has not bothered to come back and see us since. i remember being here 10 years ago and listening to the launch of the lisbon agenda. we were told that with the euro, by 2010, we would have full employment and, indeed, that europe would be the competitive and dynamic powerhouse of the world. by any objective criteria, the euro has failed and, in fact, there is a looming impending disaster. this deal makes things worse, not better. eur 100 billion is being put up for the spanish banking system and 20 % of that money has to come from italy. under the deal the italians have to lend to the spanish banks at 3 %, but to get that money they have to borrow on the markets at 7 %. it is genius, is it not! it really is brilliant. so what we are doing with this package is actually driving countries like italy towards needing to be bailed out themselves. in addition to that, we have put a further 10 % on spanish national debt and i will tell you – and any banking analyst will tell you – that eur 100 billion will not solve the spanish problem; it would need to be more like eur 400 billion. with greece teetering on the edge of euro withdrawal, the real elephant in the room is that once greece leaves, the european central bank, is bust. it is gone. it has eur 444 billion worth of exposure to the bailed-out countries and to rectify that there will need to be a cash call on ireland, spain, portugal, greece and italy! you could not make it up, could you? it is total and utter failure. this ship – the euro titanic – has now hit the iceberg and, sadly, there simply are not enough lifeboats.
blue-card question. – i do not see how you can possibly say that the eu budget is efficient, when the eu budget is a byword for corruption, waste and fraud.
mr president, an astronomical amount of taxpayers’ money has been given to greece, ireland, portugal and spain by the eu since 2010: eur 285 billion. you heard me correctly – eur 285 billion! what has happened to this money? the eu’s failure to keep tabs on funding means that nobody can know for sure. now, more money is wanted to waste on promoting deeper european integration. the lisbon agenda was a disaster. can anyone here say that europe is the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world? only if they are an ostrich. now the eu wants to pour billions more into the 2020 plan. the new own resources being proposed, namely the financial transaction tax, mean that this money will be even more unaccountable. this house, in approving this framework, is voting for a continuation of the last ten wasteful years. i shudder at that thought. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, mrs gomes is wrong. she is talking about something different. the eur 285 billion is the eu budget that was paid into these member states. this money is not to be returned and it does not earn any interest. mrs gomes, you are confused. i am not talking about the bailout. i am talking about the eu budget that was supposed to grow the economies of the countries concerned and did not grow those economies.
mr president, we all accept that jobs and growth are the most urgent priority for the european union, and this multiannual financial framework, if it is used as an investment budget, presents us with a valuable opportunity to make a vital contribution to resolving the european financial crisis. so we do welcome investment in research and development in the single market and in cross-border infrastructure. but there are three points which i have to make. first, the budget must be able to demonstrate real added value. too many of the traditional spends in past budgets clearly have not, and we must understand that quantity of spend is no substitute for quality. second, it must be fair: we are open to suggestions on new own resources, but i have to say that a financial transaction tax would not be acceptable, nor indeed would the abolition of rebates. finally, this house would be mistaken to assume that we could increase the size of the budget at a time when all the rest of europe is facing austerity, financial disciplines and hard times.
mr president, paying for growth is not like paying for a product. you might pay your money without receiving what you have paid for. in the present mff, 44 % of the eu budget is being spent on sustainable growth. that will go up to 48 %. is it really being spent effectively? does the eu really know how to spend member states’ money better than they do? the eu’s embracing of globalism and neoliberal economics, of open markets and maximised competition will defeat any strategy for growth. as sir james goldsmith said a decade ago, the only way the west would compete with the emergent economies in a free market would be by our wage levels equalling theirs. it is all very well to think our research and development will make our industries more competitive, but innovation spreads by industrial piracy by the far east and industrial treachery by western-based multinationals. the commission’s europe 2020 document waxed lyrical about europe’s talented workforces, but that presupposed that the present populations of europe would survive and would not be replaced by immigration.
mr president, in this time of deep economic crisis we need to use every opportunity to change direction. the mff gives us the chance to completely reassess how the eu spends its money and how we prioritise spending for creating jobs and growth. we need a balanced strategy, not one relying entirely on austerity, because it is clear to us all that this approach is just not working. our challenge, though, is not just to find more money, but to use what we have more efficiently and more effectively, focusing on job creation to ensure that we tackle the huge problem of unemployment throughout the eu. let us take the chance to shape our approach and seize this opportunity not just to protect the status quo, but to ensure we do whatever is needed to give hope to our citizens, particularly our young people, who sadly have very few prospects in sight.
in writing. – as one country goes bust, calling to be rescued by the others, more and more economies are dragged deeper into the mire as they add repercussive economic impacts and bail outs onto the burden of national deficits. the commission’s programme for more money to be sent to the centre, bound by tighter regulation, with the impetus of closer economic union, forces cash flow to be circulated around the eurozone pulling member states into a maelstrom of economic destitution and political control. it is the concept of more europe that has exacerbated, if not created, the entire crisis. if the eu’s reactions have been, as both president barosso and prime minister rajoy of spain proclaimed, successful, then the crisis would surely be over. yet the eu’s actions have been successful in forcing the european project along at a pace by furthering state capitalism. in the ussr, highly centralised government and economic policy inflicted poverty on millions of voiceless citizens. the echoes are chillingly familiar. the only difference is that the eu has not used tanks to subsume countries by force, but masterminded the use of subversive bureaucracy alongside the prolongation of the economic crisis.
madam president, the negotiations on this took place only this morning and it is with sincere thanks to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, and also to his colleague mr grzyb, and mr donskis from the alde group, that we have managed to come to an agreement. to get consensus on this, i am withdrawing all the wording from the s&d amendment after the words ‘human rights’ and from the words ‘in the light of their agreement in 2011 and the priority…’ that is a different split from the one that we discussed with session services earlier on. i am sorry about this, but it is something that we have agreed with mr salafranca sánchez-neyra. i withdraw the second half of this amendment, but ask parliament to support the first half.
madam president, i voted in favour of this proposed update to the scheme of generalised tariff preferences. this is a key instrument being used to help developing countries participate in international trade. trade is vital for growth. without income from exports, developing countries cannot put into place either the physical or democratic infrastructure which is necessary for sustainable democratic growth. if resources are not available through trade this funding is only available through aid. trade, not aid, is the right way forward. of course, this report is not perfect, but i support the general message from parliament that trade preferences with developing countries should be maintained and developed.
madam president, i too voted in favour of this report on generalised tariff preferences as a means of promoting economic growth through trade in developing countries. i strongly believe that, since it came into force in 1971, it has had an overall positive impact. it is extremely encouraging that the least developed countries are able to participate in international trade in this way and are thus able to support their own poverty reduction schemes and their own sustainable development projects through the additional export revenue that this generates and by easier access to eu markets. of course, it is also important that we also reasonably defend eu industries, at the same time as providing benefits to third countries. so we must remember to create the right balance in this regard with a level playing field. politically, i generally support the idea that trade preferences rather than aid handouts are an extremely useful tool for promoting economic development and growth in those less-developed countries outside the european union.
madam president, it was only last july that we had the stress tests of all the european banks and we were told that there was no problem in spain – certainly none that the national government could not look after. we have now had a bailout of eur 100 billion and spanish ten-year bonds were at their highest level since the single currency was launched, so the only impact of this bailout has been to burden every spanish household with a further eur 15 000 debt that they did not have last week. where does the money come from? it has come from the other members of the eurozone, including cyprus and italy and so on. europe is giving itself a transfusion; it is taking blood from one arm and pumping it into the other arm, but the tube is leaking. the liquid is coming out en route. my friends, when are we going to understand that you do not solve a debt crisis with more debt? the euro is the problem not the solution. we are treating the tumour when we should be treating the patient.
madam president, i voted for this as i believe that trade, rather than aid, is a better way to assist less developed countries to prosper. however, i want to make a wider point about tariff reduction and trade agreements relevant to all of us. here we see preferential access to the eu single market being given to nations which are not members of the eu but which get reduced – or even zero – tariff walls from the eu customs union. yet they do not have to sign up to financial contributions to the eu or to a whole body of law, the acquis, and can trade pretty freely. it goes to show how far we have travelled from the 1970s world of high tariffs and menacing trade walls and how much has been achieved by the wto and gatt in reducing barriers to trade around the world. we can all benefit from much looser trading relations and lower tariff walls.
madam president, one of the biggest myths about trade and international trade is that countries trade with each other. countries do not trade with each other. it is people and businesses who trade with people and businesses in another country for mutual benefit. what can governments do? they can either get in the way or they can facilitate that trade. the best way of facilitating that trade is by simply getting out of the way. but what do governments and what do institutions such as the eu do? they get in the way with tariff barriers and non-tariff barriers. surely the best way to help people in less-developed countries is to remove all these trade barriers and to make sure that entrepreneurs in those countries can create wealth. otherwise, if we stop them creating wealth in their own countries, they lose hope and they seek to leave those home countries and they emigrate to our countries, and then we complain about immigration. as a development economist once said to me, either you take our goods and services, or you take our people, so let us help entrepreneurs in poorer countries.
madam president, i abstained from voting on this report today because i do not believe that as a representative of a non-eurozone member state i should be interfering in the internal economic functioning of those countries which are part of the eurozone. however, i do believe that those countries which are part of the eurozone should start to get themselves sorted out. i also believe that it is important that my delegation encourage eurozone countries to act responsibly. it is of course too late. the eurozone needs to sort itself out, but there is no sign that this is happening with anything like the urgency which is required. there is no better example of shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted than the way european leaders have behaved during this crisis. rules which should have been in place years ago are changed on a daily basis. we see magnificent examples of shirking responsibility, cries of ‘not me, it was him’ that would be more appropriate in a kindergarten playground. i hope it works, and it gives me no pleasure to say that i doubt it will.
madam president, spanish ten-year bonds are at their highest level since the euro came into being. clearly, the markets have not received the bailout with the candor that was expected. the rescue has achieved something, it has meant that the spanish now owe 100 billion euros more than they owed last week. the spanish people are well aware of something that bureaucratic arrogance is determined to deny. the bailout will result in the same thing as in greece and ireland: more poverty, deflation and hopelessness. the spanish will see their savings lose value and their debts skyrocket. even though brussels likes to be opaque and people not to ask, there is a doubt: madam president, when will those who take the risk of jumping out of an airplane without parachutes be let down?
madam president, when you look at the make-up of the eurozone, what we have is an economic project that was actually doomed to failure from the start – a bankruptcy machine, as some have called it. you have 17 countries, one currency, one set of interest rates, but 17 different spending decisions. if you look at the lessons from successful currency unions, what keeps them together? you have fiscal transfers from the richer parts of the currency union to the poorer parts of the currency union. therefore we have a choice. we can keep the eurozone together in its current form, but then you have to have the transfers from the richer countries, germany and the netherlands, to the poorer countries. but what will the voters in those countries say? they will ask why they should pay for the less disciplined countries. the other choice is to allow those countries that cannot economically viably stay in the eurozone to leave in an orderly fashion. the eurozone then does not break up altogether and you have a smaller, more viable eurozone. failing to choose either course could lead to a disorderly breakup. actually, it is a course that could be avoided if politicians were to act responsibly.
madam president, i took the unusual step of voting rather than abstaining on this eurozone report for several reasons. most of all i really wanted – yet again – to use the opportunity to express my opposition to a financial transaction tax which – yet again – found itself way into a report before this parliament. there are, i am sure, some good things in this report, but parliament is talking about tidying up the system and ignoring the real issue. we hear that the commission is busily preparing plans to cope with eurozone membership default. we hear commissioners dropping hints in the media and parliament is, as usual, completely behind the curve, proving yet again its irrelevance in these matters. why are we not discussing the real point here, which is how we are going to go forward? we are like rabbits in the headlights. we are just not seizing the agenda, and are just following the bureaucrats. no doubt people will be beating their breasts and wailing in this chamber in months to come about how we have dealt with the issue of default countries, and yet we are just not taking the opportunity to deal with it at the right time.
madam president, it is painful to see how the land of light and joy is being consumed by the deepest social depression. i would like to express my sincere hope to the spanish people. spain: there is a way out, you can live another golden age, full of dreams achieved. the way out is to trust your citizenship and your entrepreneurs. the way out is more culture of effort and less rewards and bailouts to those who have not wanted to take the risk of disastrous investments; the way out is in less state and not in more. i don't believe in the massive expenditure of everyone's resources to save a few. i also don't believe in a macro-state that involves another level of bureaucracy. madam president, i believe in spain.
madam president, first we had the six pack and now we have the two pack. some say that adds up to the eight pack but, whatever it means, actually we have not really done anything, have we? we need look no further for inspiration than the rapper of the same name – 2pac. he actually had some very interesting things to say about this. in his song ‘changes’ he says: ‘come on, come on, i see no changes’. some people in some countries suffering at the moment ‘wake up in the morning and … ask … is life worth living?’. 2pac said ‘you see the old way wasn’t working so it’s on us to do what we gotta do to survive’. if only the leaders of the eurozone countries would do what they ‘gotta’ do: either go for a full union with fiscal transfers from the richer countries to the poorer countries, or allow those countries which cannot viably stay in the eurozone to leave. but, as 2pac himself said, i see no changes.
madam president, today i and my colleagues voted for this resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff). i want to make it clear that we do support a substantial reform to how the eu is funded, including a move to own resources, allowing a substantial cut in member states’ contributions – although we do not believe the flawed commission proposal for a financial transaction tax is part of that solution and we voted against that particular line. however, i want to make it very clear that we do not support any reduction in the uk rebate on a unilateral basis. the mff is an important tool for investment and growth across europe, with 94 % of spending taking place in member states’ backyards. however, the size of the budget must take account of the tough financial times that we live in. we need a budget that is realistic and able to tackle the problems europe faces. if we are to have a tight budget, it is essential that the eu has greater flexibility on how we manage it to allow us to incentivise more efficient and more effective spending. our priorities are clear: a realistic mff budget with the flexibility to spend it effectively and efficiently on boosting growth across europe and creating jobs.
madam president, governments across europe are trying to bring public spending under control. so why do the european institutions think they should be exempt from tightening their belts? a british think-tank recently revealed that the commission now employs more officials to deal with education and culture than to work on the internal market. that is a disgrace. the european union must refocus its efforts on the single market and ensure that eu taxpayers are getting a fair deal. i have explained to this house many times my opposition to the eu financial transaction tax. i am equally opposed to the introduction of eu vat. more europe is not the answer to the current crisis. more taxes are never the answer to any crisis. i cannot support this report.
madam president, regrettably i was unable to vote for this resolution today and, regrettably, the rest of the house was unable to vote for the resolution from my group. we find ourselves, as ever, at an impasse. i always try to look at this sort of issue from the point of view of my constituents. my constituents want a few questions answered. they want to know why the commission is not preparing a significant reduction in its expenditure when it is calling for fiscal austerity throughout member states. my constituents want to know why this parliament, which they have elected me to attend, is not calling for a significant reduction in its expenditure. they want to know why we are living in a different universe, and they are going further and further away from accepting that there is any relevance at all, or any benefit at all, to being part of either the european union or this parliament. that is regrettable.
madam president, almost exactly 100 years ago, from the city of southampton in my constituency, the titanic made her maiden voyage. it is an irresistible message for many in this house and to many observers outside. there are so many natural similes to draw about icebergs and scrambles for lifeboats and the hubris of saying that a vessel was indestructible and so on, but you know me, you have heard me in this chamber many times before: i abhor the cliché, i disdain the easy metaphor. let me instead focus on a different aspect of the sinking of that vessel, which was the behaviour of the band leader, wallace hartley, who, we are told from several witness accounts, played a hymn as the ship went under the water, the old hymn ‘nearer my god to thee’ which had been introduced by his father, who was a methodist choirmaster, to their lancashire congregation. i wonder whether the reason he did that was not because he was soothing himself. in times of great panic some people run around like ants, but others go back to what is familiar and there he was playing his elegy, his funeral threnody with the notes he had learnt as a boy. are we not doing something similar? hundreds of millions of euros are being withdrawn in a bank run across the mediterranean. the system is about to crash and we are legislating about a common definition, upon the phobia about company boards having quotas of women and so on. why are we doing it? because it makes us feel good. regulation is what makes us feel good. regulation is what makes us feel comfortable. therein is our tragedy.
madam president, at a time when governments not only in the eu but across the world are struggling with enormous debts and having to tighten their belts and looking at ways they can cut their spending – and rightly so, because we have all allowed the debt to grow out of control – we have all forgotten the lesson of mrs thatcher in the 1980s, who said that we should all remember the housewife’s rule that we should never spend more money than we have coming in. governments across the eu, and governments across the world, forgot that lesson and thought that the solution to more problems was to carry on spending more money than they actually have. as we reflect on the crisis, as we reflect on the problems in our member states, what do we see the eu doing while countries tighten their belts? we see the eu asking for more money from taxpayers, asking for it to spend more taxpayers’ money that they do not have, hoping that it will solve problems when all it will do is increase the mountain of debt. it is time we learnt the lessons.
madam president, i voted against this progress report on eu trade negations with japan as i do not believe that our negotiations in this regard should be delayed any further. the scoping exercise which was carried out relating to the potential for eu-japan free trade agreements has identified many key areas on both sides. both sides are now prepared to start discussions and this has shown clearly that japan is ready to commence negotiations. indeed, japan has already delivered on a number of non-tariff barriers by eliminating them. so, given the fact that japan has already embarked on negotiations with asean and the usa in these matters, any further delays by the european union now would mean running the risk of being seriously left behind once negotiations actually start. eu ftas with countries as far apart as mexico and south korea have been a great economic success story, so i hope that the european union can now conclude fta deals with india and japan, which are the two great democracies of asia.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the ecr group on the eu-japan negotiations, i thought it was very important that we send a strong signal that we want to commence negotiations with japan. of course, there are concerns about whether japan has tackled some of the non-tariff barriers and whether they are able to do so, but surely the best way forward would have been to start negotiations because we always have the option of saying that the japanese have not done enough and therefore we will not sign the agreement. all we do by adopting the stance that we have adopted in delaying the start of negotiations is create bad will, or not enough goodwill, between us, and we have to make sure that we do not use that option too often, because japan has other areas to negotiate with. it has started to negotiate the tpp – the trans-pacific partnership – with the united states, and it is negotiating with other asian countries. let us make sure that after this delay, hopefully in the autumn, we give the commission the mandate to start negotiating so we all benefit from the free trade. it is time that governments got out of the way and allowed people in businesses in the eu to trade with people in businesses with japan.
madam president, i abstained on this report as it is another classic case of the right idea but in the wrong place. of course we all want to see better human rights records around the world. i personally raised the issue of human rights with president santos of colombia last year and i was impressed with his commitment to improve human rights in a country which has suffered from 50 years of guerrilla warfare. but this is to confuse political agreements about political measures with trade agreements, which should be about jobs and market access. trade agreements are not trade agreements when they become weighed down with non-trade issues. no matter how worthy those issues are, it is not desirable or effective to confuse the two, nor can you switch trade agreements on and off like light switches, as this report suggests, so that every accusation on human rights leads to the suspension of the agreement. that is a recipe for chaos, confusion and misery, for lost jobs and lost opportunities and we cannot afford that, especially not at this time.
madam president, i abstained on the report on the appointment of an eu sr for human rights. i remain uncertain about the need for the creation of such a new post, as important human rights dialogues are already frequently being held by the eu with all our global partners. of course, there might be benefits to having a dedicated eu representative appointed to promote the strengthening of democracy, international justice and freedom of expression throughout the world, but in my view the case has not yet been fully made. however, i am also concerned that the recommendations by parliament are too broad, and that the mandate that they will provide for will be too flexible and too far removed from the original proposals submitted by the council. i am also concerned that the creation of such a position would have implications for the eu budget, especially at a time when we need to be making cuts, rather than creating new posts and spending more money.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on negotiations on the un arms trade treaty as i believe the arms trade can only be properly regulated at a global level. it is important to note that the arms trade plays a significant role in contributing to economic growth and creates many jobs in the european union, including in my country the united kingdom. however, the arms trade in its unregulated and non-transparent state seriously threatens local, national and international peace and stability and also undermines democracy, the rule of law and sustainable development through fuelling, tragically, armed conflict, organised crime and terrorism. the creation of internationally agreed standards to ensure that conventional weapons are only imported, exported and transferred for appropriate use would, i believe, have a very positive impact. thus i back these calls for a resolution that is legally binding, in order to establish common international standards. it is revealing that the only un member opposed to this move is zimbabwe.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution on the follow-up of the elections in the democratic republic of congo, which has succeeded, five months after holding elections – that admittedly were of questionable conduct and fairness – in forming a new government. however, all things said and done, the congolese people did turn out to vote in huge numbers, which demonstrates their deep enthusiasm for the building of a genuine democracy in their large nation. but it is not just the election process that is necessary for the building of a true democracy. the new government, led by president kabila, must now commit itself to the social and economic development of this vast mineral-rich country and to upholding the population’s basic human rights. with the reports of continued human rights violations, in particular mass rapes, the drc still has a long way to go and must start to make significant progress in the criminal investigations into these atrocious crimes and the enforcement of criminal justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the nomination of iliana ivanova as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls for action to strengthen international efforts aimed at ensuring that all human rights agreed under un conventions are considered universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated; to help strengthen national capacities for the fulfilment of international human rights obligations; and in this connection, to stress the need to secure the right of freedom of religion and belief for all.
in writing. − this report sets out the case for the eu as an independent actor at the un which i and fellow british conservatives have consistently opposed. the eu is neither a nation state nor a member of the united nations, and the eu’s intention (in the words of the report) ‘to develop a long-term strategy targeting un membership’ goes completely against uk government policy and the wishes of the british people. under no circumstances should european member states of the un, still less members of the security council, allow the eu to demand (in the words of the report) ‘the defence of the positions and interests of the eu in the un security council’ by those member states which are members of that body. as a matter of principle, i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. − while i wholeheartedly applaud global efforts to lift developing countries out of poverty via the establishment of strong trade links, the difficulty with establishing a pan european model is that it denies individual member states the ability to adapt markets and charge importation tariffs that meet their individual needs
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which aims to concentrate the benefits of the gsp scheme in the poorest countries in the world.
in writing. − thus far all responses to the eurozone crisis have only deeper entrenched afflicted member states in the mire, spread the credit issues virally by inter-relating economies and co-managing bail outs and exacerbated the lack of maoevrability held by any one country to steer out of economic turmoil. i strongly opposed the six pack controls brought forward by the commission and also vehemently reject the latest two pack response which seeks to strengthen eu control of member state finances via intrusive surveillance. the ongoing economic problems are enabling the european project of federal integration to be forced along at a pace and are being exploited, if not extenuated, to this end. whilst i agree that growth should be the focus to enable single currency members to climb out of fiscal crisis, i do not believe this can be done with the euro intact and believe the aim now should be to relinquish the single currency, dismantle the eurozone and release member states to forge necessary and nation-specific courses of action to redevelop trade and industry and tackle unemployment.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. the worsening financial situation worldwide caused a marked downturn in growth in the union and serious budgetary problems for its member states. but while coordinating the member states’ economic and social policies may well be one solution to these problems, a certain number of principles must be observed in the process. coordination cannot focus solely on the member states’ budgetary situation and must take into account investment in the labour market and in improving the social situation. state investment in training or research to make a country more competitive, an effective social protection system and social minima are all ways to fight poverty and maintain internal consumption – and thereby better resist crises – and should be viewed positively. coordination must be consistent with the democratic principles of the union. parliaments wherein sit elected representatives, whether the european parliament or national parliaments, must be kept fully and regularly informed in the same way as the commission or the council. coordination cannot run counter to national and eu principles on social dialogue. fundamental rights to collective bargaining and to strike action cannot be called into question by the structural reforms and job market reforms advocated by the member states.
in writing. − this legislative proposal paves the way for an unprecedented shift of fiscal power centrally to brussels, enabling the commission to set budget thresholds, opening up the potential of euro area debt instruments, encouraging eu wide taxation, bringing forth a financial transactions tax that would seriously damage the city of london and render europe globally uncompetitive and forging binding rules on member state budgets and eu bonds. no single eu citizen has voted for, this, no single eu citizen wants this and it is abhorrent that legislation, which in effect would render the eurozone a federal super state, has occurred above any democratic recourse to the hundreds of millions of people it would negatively affect.
in writing. − i voted for this report but consider the following amendment to be vital: ‘the commission shall present a report establishing a roadmap towards euro area stability bonds. it shall also present a proposal for a euro area sustainable growth instrument aiming at mobilising approximately 1 % of gdp per year over a period of ten years, including an increase in the capital of the eib and project bonds, to be invested in european infrastructure including science and technology. the instrument shall aim at creating the necessary conditions for sustainable growth in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and to safeguard the stability of the euro and thereby the sustainable coordination of member states’ budgetary discipline’.
in writing. − the report intends to extends the scope of the erbd into the middle east in the east and south mediterranean area, costing billions during a period of economic hardship when in fact the erbd should have been wound down once central europe was fully integrated within the eu.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the ebrd’s expansion to the southern and eastern mediterranean is an expression of the union’s and the international community’s support for the hopes, encouraged by the arab spring, of a transition in that region towards market economies and pluralistic democratic societies.
in writing. − it is astonishing that while brussels creates legislation to bind member states’ spending to tight austerity measures, the call from the commission is for an ever increasing budget. nobody is as nonsensical to presume that an increasing eu budget will toll heavily upon national deficits, adding to the very government spending brussels is demanding be reduced by cutting public sector jobs and services. as a result people’s lives are deteriorating, in some member states at an astonishing rate, while the eu builds up financial buffers to be able to swoop in and hand out golden envelopes to struggling nations and by doing so, coerce the general population to perceive the eu as not only a good institution, but a vital one. the raft of legislation being written up in brussels at the moment is perpetuating the financial crisis for the sake of a brussels power grab. whoever has the money has the power. what about slashing the eu budget and in doing so, cutting the vast contributions made by member states? to afford the eu’s dreams of becoming a super state and world power, the ability to raise revenue must also be ascribed, despite under the treaties, the eu budget obligated to be “financed wholly from own resources”.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution as i do not believe that an ftt should be used for own resources.
in writing. − economic recovery and investment in jobs and growth must be the priority for the next multiannual financial framework. the eu budget needs sufficient resources if the eu 2020 strategy is to succeed. if europe is to emerge from the crisis the main focus should be job creation, and smart and sustainable growth as well as economic and social cohesion. i also believe that the eu budget needs a degree of flexibility in order to deal with unexpected situations and i reiterate the call made in this resolution to increase flexibility in the next mff. however, i was not able to give my full support to this resolution due to two issues. firstly, although i fully support an ftt, i do not think we should be committing this revenue to eu own resources at this stage. secondly, i cannot support scrapping the uk rebate without a firm promise that there will be serious reform of the common agricultural policy. for these reasons, i decided to vote against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. − i do not support any eu trade negotiation with third countries which result in the annulment of national bits and restrict all member states to eu negotiated terms and conditions for trade. it is important for competitiveness for countries to be able to establish unique and idiomatic trade deals and not relinquish sovereign trade decisions under eu proposals. i therefore could not vote against any call to postpone such negotiations.
in writing. − i supported this resolution but want to put on record that a good and ambitious fta with japan could be a win-win for both parties.
in writing. − while i wholly support a call for democracy in guinea bissau and also condemn the recent military coup, i do not permit the european union as a wholly undemocratic and largely unelected body to be the arbiter of such judgments on the global stage.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which demands the immediate reinstatement of the constitutional order and the rule of law and the conclusion of the electoral process, including the legislative elections, so as to enable the people of guinea-bissau to decide on their future by free and fair elections.
in writing. − the ongoing political crisis and border conflict between sudan and the newly formed south sudan is costing many lives. it is urgent that global powers seek that these problems be rectified and the populations protected, while in the meantime it is essential to enable humanitarian access to displaced peoples. however i do not permit the european union as a wholly undemocratic and largely unelected body to act as a voice on behalf of the uk in foreign affairs issues.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which expresses its deep concern at the humanitarian situation created by the fighting between sudan and south sudan, and the continued fighting in the states of southern kordofan and blue nile in sudan, and strongly condemns all acts of violence committed against civilians in violation of international humanitarian law and human rights law.
in writing. − i do not support any eu trade negotiation with third countries which result in the annulment of national bits and restrict all member states to eu negotiated terms and conditions for trade. it is important for competitiveness for countries to be able to establish unique and idiomatic trade deals and not relinquish sovereign trade decisions under eu proposals. i therefore could not vote against any call to postpone such negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for resolution on a trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. i welcome the resolution, which indicates a clear commitment from europeans for respect for human rights and fundamental rights, including in our trade relations. i am glad that the parliament warmly welcomes the recent efforts and progress achieved by the new colombian government as regards labour and human rights. i join my colleagues working in the inta committee in our plea for the commission to assist colombia and peru in their progress and in implementing the changes that are now initiated. i am hoping that this resolution will pave the way for parliament to approve this trade agreement, which would be hugely beneficial for both the eu and andean economies. it will remove barriers to trade in services, public procurement and investment. its benefits are clear: it will eliminate tariffs which have cost the european spirits industry eur 35 million in the past 10 years. the agreement also has the potential to save eu agriculture exporters eur 22 million annually. in the current economic circumstances, these export opportunities are vital to support jobs and growth in europe.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which strongly welcomes the commitment expressed by all the parties involved in the promotion of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, as confirmed by the inclusion in the first article of the trade agreement of extensive and binding provisions on these fundamental principles.
in writing. − the eu wishes to appoint a special representative for human rights to oversee and raise the profile of eu human rights worldwide. firstly, eu human rights have made a mockery of national legal systems which are designed to protect society and forge the equal and fair treatment of its members. it serves to aid criminals and terrorists, undermines the value of incarceration and impinges upon national sovereignty over who is resident within a country. secondly, while on one hand the eu is prolonging one of greatest financial crises in history, forcing tens of thousands out of work, preventing stocks of essential medicines from being replenished in greece, witnessing some 25,000 people becoming dependant on hand outs from the church and using the control of wealth to humble these once strong nations into subservience to brussels, the commission wants to appoint somebody to pontificate on european human rights worldwide. how about the eu focuses upon chapter v of its own charter of fundamental rights, being the citizens’ rights to vote, the right to good administration and the right to petition and ask the people of europe whether they want a continuation of this abhorrent project to create a federal super state?
in writing. − by voting against this report and its suggestion to create an eu representative on human rights i am not in any way diminishing the importance which i place on the protection of human rights, both in the eu and beyond. faced with this proposal my two questions are simple – would such an office result in a marked improvement in worldwide human rights records? i fear the answer to be no. and secondly, is this function carried out already? the answer being yes. for it is not just a function fulfilled by member state governments across the eu, but also by global organisations such as the un. if the eu insists on imposing its views on others – which we know the eu does – with the vast resources available to the high representative on foreign affairs, surely this role should be carried out by baroness ashton? mr president, before the eu goes global in lecturing others on human rights it has much to learn itself about human rights. all you need ask is the street preacher who faces arrest as his freedom of religious expression is suppressed.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which states that the policy objectives of the eusr for hr should include enhancing the coherence, effectiveness and visibility of eu action in the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy; that the eusr hr should work in close cooperation with the council working group on human rights (cohom); that the eusr for hr should be a high-level interlocutor for his/her counterparts in third countries and at international organisations, also able to engage with the un (unga, unhrc, etc.) as well as relevant regional organisations; and that the eusr for hr should chair high-level human rights dialogues and lead consultations with third countries on human rights issues.
in writing. − whilst i support robust action in the defence of genuine human rights (notably freedom of speech and belief, personal liberty and the right to property), i am sceptical of eu interference in the human rights sphere, which it often seeks to leverage in pursuit of its wider institutional ambitions. i see little added value in creating an eu special representative for human rights, as our national governments are already more than able to press for better international human rights through existing, proven mechanisms. i have spearheaded action in the european parliament to improve the basic freedoms and rights of zimbabweans. given the current national budgetary constraints and the need for the eu to reduce expenditure, i am particularly concerned about the budgetary implications of the creation of an 11th eu special representative. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. − there has been significant opposition, especially in america and canada, to the un arms trade treaty. while the control and regulation of international arms trading is necessary, there is a distinct lack of recourse to international discrepancies in public opinion with this particular debate. while many households in america have handguns and a great number of families in canada use guns for hobby and hunting purposes, in the uk few people have access to small firearms. those who use guns for illicit purposes are unlikely to be swayed from criminal behaviour by the introduction of new legislation, although pan-national corroboration to restrict the availability of arms on the black market is something i vehemently support. the eu may have broad reaching control of trade in europe, but designating a single european stance in this area represents a sizeable foray into the realm of foreign affairs and thus encroaches upon the prerogatives of both nato and national governments. by doing so, the eu is effectively mounting a subversive campaign against public opinion across the atlantic
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which points out that uncontrolled and unregulated arms trading poses a serious threat to local, national, regional and international peace, security and stability but also to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social and economic development; unregulated arms trading is a contributory factor in armed conflict, the displacement of people, organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. − we support a un arms trade treaty, limited in scope, and with global application and on this basis wished to signal our support by voting in favour of the resolution. however, i wish, on behalf of the ecr group, to put on record our serious reservations about the text of the resolution, as amended in plenary. we feel strongly that the resolution should have placed emphasis on those who abuse the trade in arms rather than on our own countries, which are responsible and already have high standards in this area. we do not support any of the language which seeks to artificially create a role for the eu, such as calls for the eu delegation to take part in the treaty negotiations. equally, the statement that ‘a united, coherent and consistent eu approach is crucial for such a treaty to be adopted and effectively implemented at a global level’ is mystifying. diplomatic efforts should be spent ensuring countries such as china and russia are signed up to the highest possible standards, not trying to harmonise the eu stance. finally, it is regrettable that the acknowledgement of the contribution that the arms industry makes to our security and economies was amended out of the resolution.
in writing. − the arms trade treaty called for in this resolution will prevent the flow of weapons that facilitate crimes under international law. i fully support the resolution and, by ensuring that weapons are traded responsibly, this treaty can potentially improve the lives and the security conditions of people around the world. standards must be set to regulate international trade in arms and the adoption of this resolution by the european parliament is a positive step ahead of the negotiations at the united nations on a comprehensive arms treaty.
in writing. − i am an ardent supporter of democracy, of the protection of the right to vote and the importance of strengthening democratic institutions. however the eu represents none of these things, and as such is in no position to assume powers via which they can or should demand such reforms in third countries such as the drc. such prerogatives are the preserve of democratically operational national governments and supranational bodies that work in accordance with the wishes of the public they represent.
in writing. − the border area of eastern congo and rwanda is one that has suffered great violence and loss of human life over the last twenty years. as a result of the continued violence in the region we are witnessing a growing humanitarian crisis in the congo, while un resources in the area become increasingly stretched. more than 100 000 people have been forced to flee their homes. the red cross say the humanitarian situation could – once again – become ‘disastrous’. that is something we should all use our influence to avoid. already many governments have made significant financial aid commitments and that is to be welcomed. i would urge the high representative to work alongside national governments in coordinating humanitarian relief to this area.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on congo, which strongly condemns the deplorable violence and violations of fundamental rights during the elections of 28 november and calls upon the congolese authorities to make every effort to hold the necessary investigations to find the perpetrators, and welcomes and encourages the work of the security forces and the law enforcement agencies in their efforts effectively to address all the human rights violations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to make two points in my two minutes. this morning, president barroso proposed an interinstitutional agreement on a growth initiative to properly involve the european parliament in the process. my first point is about democracy. i welcome president barroso’s proposal, but i would also like to recall that two years ago this parliament voted for something much more important: an interinstitutional agreement on the european semester. we must make the european semester process truly democratic. commissioner rehn, you reminded our committee on economic and monetary affairs on monday that the new economic dialogue provision in the six-pack expects the council as a general rule to follow the recommendations and proposals of the commission. those recommendations cover essential elements of national policy: labour market regulation, pension systems, collective bargaining practices and so on. it is simply not acceptable that such recommendations are meant to be followed by member states without the proper democratic involvement of both national and european parliaments. that democratic deficit needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency. my second point concerns the economic situation. today we have voted on the so-called two-pack but we have still not made any progress in recognising the importance of public investment as a key part of national budgetary policies. public investment is now to be increasingly addressed, as you have said, through european instruments, for example through an increased role for the eib and the pilot project on project bonds. but these instruments will not be enough to solve the growing public investment deficit across the member states. public investment is at least 1 % of gdp too low now, and that will not be made up via these instruments. the commission needs to provide solid estimates of public investment needs between now and 2020, taking account of existing policy objectives. it then needs to indicate as precisely as possible how those needs are to be met. only then will we be able to assess whether the proposed instrument will address the public investment deficit or whether, as we believe, we need to go further. we believe that we need to address that deficit systematically within the rules on economic governance through a new growth regulation. only in that way will we find a sensible balance between austerity and growth.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in these recommendations some countries are being told to do what they are already doing and some countries, like france, are doing the opposite of what they are being told. the problem is that the people in europe see the commission saying one thing to our member states but then often doing another thing in the european institutions. so i have three recommendations for the commissioner. firstly on the eu budget: stop wasting taxpayers’ money on vanity projects and make sure that we really are getting value for money in that budget; secondly, cut bureaucracy for businesses so that they can grow, which should be an urgent priority for the eu; and thirdly, sort out the banks. you will not mend bankrupt banks by burying their problems in a banking union.
mr president, the establishment of the european semester two years ago was based on the assumption that the commission initially, and in the end the heads of state or government and the european council, know what is best for each individual member state better than the government of that member state does. the assumption is self-evidently false. furthermore, the government of each member state is elected directly or indirectly and responsible to the electorate, whereas the commission has no responsibility to any electorate and the european council as a whole has no responsibility to the electorate of any particular state. coming to the substantive content of the guidelines, the economic and financial affairs council meeting on 21 february said in paragraph 20, and i quote, ‘to promote competitiveness, reforms need to focus on labour markets, in particular wage setting mechanisms to ensure efficient adjustment of labour costs’. this means that in the globalist economy facilitated by the eu, the wage rates of european workers must fall to the levels of those in the emergent economies.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i understand that our good colleague, mr malcolm harbour, has been very much engaged in this work on the single market. we should certainly thank him for his efforts, but he falls into an error common amongst british conservatives. challenged to find even one good thing to say about the european union, most british conservatives will cite the single market. they seem to believe that it is a free trade area and they think that free trade is a good thing. but it is not a free trade area. it is a customs union and it is a bureaucratic nightmare of regulation and red tape. years ago, commissioner verheugen estimated that the cost of eu regulation was around 6 % of european gdp. since then it has got worse and this proposal today adds more burdens. i come to the house today with good news. it is possible to create growth and jobs and prosperity and investment and recovery in europe but, to do so, we will need to do four things. first of all, we must cut taxes, secondly, we must have a bonfire of the regulations, thirdly, we must dismantle the reckless and failing experiment of monetary union and, finally, we must adopt a rational energy policy and abandon our lunatic obsession with the myth of global warming. i fear that we will do none of these things and we will condemn europe to a third-world future of decline, poverty and unemployment. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i am delighted for the first time and i welcome the fact that mr helmer is not in the same group as me and i can therefore intervene to question him. i want to ask him to pick up two points: first of all, would he confirm that the antique data he uses, attributed to mr verheugen, was actually the total burden of all regulation on european industry, not just eu legislation but the whole of the national member states’ legislation? i am sure he will find that is true and it would be good if he would stop using that figure. secondly, would he confirm that the single market is neither a free trade area nor is it a customs union? it is a fundamentally more advanced and open economic area than anything else in the world.
blue-card answer. – mr president, i thank my colleagues for these interesting questions. in the case of ex-commissioner verheugen – and i accept, mr schwab, that he is no longer a commissioner but frequently in the european institutions people retain the title of president or commissioner after they have finished exercising their duty – he quoted a figure of 6 %. former commissioner mandelson quoted a figure for the benefits of trade in the single market at 1.8 %. now, mr harbour, it is nearly 45 years since i left university but i can still work out that 6 % is a great deal more than 1.8 %. thank you very much indeed for that. my answer would be that the single market is indeed a customs union, it is a zollverein and it has an external barrier. you will recall that all the economic studies that have been done show that free trade areas are generally much more efficient than customs unions. if you wish to point out that it is, in fact, a customs union with the addition of massive and excessive regulation, i will be the last to disagree with you.
mr president, this act purports, via a package of measures, to boost assistance for small and medium businesses yet i fear, once again, it is nothing more than comforting words to give the appearance of action. the reality is that the european union is part of the problem, not the solution. europhiles like malcolm harbour tell us that britain’s future depends on membership of the european union, that more than half of our trade is with the eu. these are disingenuous arguments. eighty percent of uk trade is internal, with 50 % of the rest being with the eu. that is only 10 % of uk trade, for which we have had a deficit since the early 1970s. yet the eu and its bureaucratic rules and regulations are draining the life out of small and medium enterprises. no wonder the federation of small businesses said to prospective meps in the 2009 european election guide, please, no more eu regulations. malcolm harbour attended a dinner, as i did. commissioner barnier, there are 4.5 million small businesses in the uk that account for 99 % of all enterprise. that is almost 60 % of private sector employment and almost 50 % of private sector turnover. smes employ an estimated 13.8 million people and have an estimated combined annual turnover of gbp 1 500 billion. the eu has constantly negatively impacted on their ability to service the majority of their contracts, whilst making it easier for other eu countries to trade in the uk. no wonder eight out of ten people want a referendum on britain’s membership of this corrupt and doomed mess.
mr president, i warmly welcome this very strong package of measures from the commission, in particular because, as i think all my colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have said, much of it reflects what we have been saying and promoting through our work over the last two and a half or three years. i want to thank everybody on the committee for their deep engagement and knowledge about this subject. i think the resolution that we produced in response to this and marking out the road for the next phase of the single market act is really important, and i hope the house will pass that with a very substantial majority tomorrow. i think the key aspect of the package that we have in front of us today is that it is a very realistic and practical approach. i quote from what you said, commissioner, in your governance proposal: ‘we have to make what we have work better’. this is not about bold new legislative solutions and, as a number of my colleagues have said, we have had enough of those. we need to get down to delivering the benefits of what we have already worked on. many of us here, particularly mrs gebhardt, myself and mr schwab, worked on the services directive. we have been worried that it has not been transposed quickly enough, and we are pleased now that you are now going to put some real pressure on the member states to ensure that those rights are properly delivered. that is not just about business; it is about consumers, as a number of you have said. however, perhaps the most scandalous aspect of the single market at the moment is that, when citizens use the online tools they have on the internet, they cannot actually buy services cross-border. they cannot buy goods cross-border in many cases because they are refused access to other websites, and in some cases they are even offered different prices for the same service, depending on where they are making their enquiry. these things are absolutely unacceptable. finally, i will just close with this point. you said quite rightly, commissioner, that the whole single market package must be subject to the deepest level of so-called smarter regulation – better policy-making. this is not just true for the single market; it is true for everything we are doing in this house.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this employment package makes a lot of very welcome suggestions for member states to take on board in their policy proposals for getting out of the current crisis. these touch on a number of key areas, including youth employment and unemployment, education, training, skills development and labour movement, to name but a few. it also points to areas of potential growth such as green technology. however, i think the cornerstone of what the commission is aiming to achieve in the job-rich recovery is, in my view, a structural change to labour markets. i do not think we should just go out on a limb and make changes without really looking at what we are doing. i think the commission should carry out an impact assessment on current eu labour-market laws and come forward with some reform proposals. i know that there is a lot of fear that such reforms might have a detrimental effect on workforces and social labour rights. these fears are very understandable but, if we do nothing, we fail to address the growing unemployment rates, particularly amongst young people, and the lack of competitiveness that we are seeing in some member states. clearly we need a sensible, pragmatic and socially-responsible balance when we make these reforms, but it is only by making serious structural changes now that we can bring forward and build a solid foundation for growth in the medium to long term. a sustainable and competitive european economy based on real economic performance – not endless public borrowing – is the route to creating jobs and reducing our unemployment rates. labour market reform may be necessary, but it is not in itself sufficient. that is why i particularly welcome proposals in this employment package to boost entrepreneurship and tackle youth unemployment, in particular providing opportunities for young people to develop valuable skills. new businesses, of course, are the employers of the future, and we must ensure that the rate of creation of new businesses is maintained. we need to identify and address the barriers to potential entrepreneurs. in the alde group we will engage positively with you, commissioner, to bring forward this package.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, unemployment is a very major concern and i welcome the commission’s communication on the job-rich recovery, but i totally reject calls for more harmonisation of european employment legislation, any attempts to establish european minimum wages and any calls for the eu to have controls and sanctions in the national labour markets of member states. european growth plans do not create jobs; it is businesses and entrepreneurs who create jobs. we must not introduce measures that create unintended consequences and actually stop entrepreneurs and possibly those who are self-employed from growing their businesses and starting to provide employment for others. smes and micro-enterprises currently provide 90 million jobs in the private sector in the eu and they have huge potential for job creation, for growth and for innovation, and we must do all we can to help them rather than hinder them.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, during the second world war, the royal air force was very concerned about the losses amongst its heavy bombers, so it sought to protect its air crew, first by putting armour around the pilot and then, when they needed more protection, armour around the navigator and more armour around the bomber. yet they found that losses continued to go up. they finally realised that they had put so much weight of armour into those bombers that they could scarcely fly. they then removed the armour, the planes flew higher and faster and the loss rate went down. for decades now, the european union has been loading regulation on labour markets. it has done so with the best of intentions – to protect workers – but the effect is to create a labour market so overloaded and inflexible that it simply cannot fly. on top of that problem we are now looking at green jobs. colleagues ought to know that there are credible studies from several european countries which show that every green job costs two or three or four jobs in the real economy because green energy is so expensive that it actually restricts growth in the rest of the economy and costs jobs. what we need for jobs is first of all deregulation and secondly to abandon our green aspirations.
in writing. – i’m perplexed by the title of the commission’s report: “towards a jobs-rich recovery”. i ask the commission: is there such a thing as a jobs-poor recovery? governments, not least the european commission, cannot create jobs. they can only create the conditions which allow jobs to be generated. and it is patently obvious that the eu is not doing this. by diverting energy towards “creating a jobs-rich recovery” the eu is heading towards a “jobs-poor spiral”. it should focus its effort on cutting red tape and on strengthening the single market. only when it is easier for companies across the eu to do business shall we shall see a turnaround in the recent shocking eu unemployment figures. the commission must learn that regulation is a barrier to growth and jobs, rather than a catalyst. i take, for example, eu rules on the sugar industry, which – because they are so inflexible and applied even more inflexibly – have already cost jobs in my constituency of london and are threatening a further 4,500 highly-skilled jobs across the european union. the commission should stop strategising on how to legislate more and focus on how it can legislate less and – with any luck – better.
madam president, of course we all actively support the aim of preventing serious accidents involving quantities of dangerous substances. i know this has not been an easy dossier to bring to a satisfactory conclusion and there has been lively discussion on the scope and the legal basis of access to justice and information for citizens. so i am very happy to congratulate the team involved on their patience and tenacity. the principle of creating a tiered approach for the tightening of rules as quantities increase is very welcome. i know it has been a real challenge to align this new seveso package with the existing clp regulations. it is not a straightforward task to ensure that the environment and citizens are protected without being disproportionately restrictive, and there was always a chance of double regulation, which i believe we have now avoided. i would like to particularly thank the commissioner for his additional declaration today. investigation and analysis of real-time information is always welcome to facilitate evidence-based policy-making and legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am ashamed to say that the number of cases of female genital mutilation (fgm) reported in my constituency of london is rising and that some of these procedures are in fact taking place in london itself. so i am glad we are having this debate today, because fgm is carried out on women who live here in europe. fgm is illegal in the uk and the law extends to protect citizens even if they are taken abroad for this procedure. all member states must take firm action to combat this illegal practice. we need to ensure that europe is doing all it can to safeguard girls and women, thus setting an example to the developing world. fgm is barbaric. it is fundamentally a violation of the rights of women and girls. it is currently a taboo subject, so i hope that by talking about it openly we will raise awareness and work towards putting a stop to this terrible practice.
madam president, as a young woman i read with horror the story of waris dirie and her experience of female genital mutilation. it was not an issue that i had heard of before and it brought me to tears. her bravery in surviving her experiences and speaking out against this brutality against women deserves all of our admiration, and also highlights the plight of millions of women throughout the world who have suffered this horrific practice. sadly, female genital mutilation is not a practice unknown to the uk, where it is reported that some 100 000 women undergo this brutal mutilation illegally, with some victims even as young as ten. it is right that we in this parliament speak out for all the victims of this barbaric procedure that affects its victims not only physically, but mentally, for the rest of their lives. we must continue to raise this problem and the unspoken suffering, which not only infringes on human rights, but also violates the rights of the child. we need to do all we can to eradicate this brutal practice from the uk, europe, and beyond, to protect young children and women from this heinous crime.
madam president, i wish to associate myself with what has been said already. female genital mutilation is an internationally recognised abuse of human rights, child rights and women’s rights, but it can only be addressed if we recognise the holistic rights of women. those include sexual health and reproductive rights, the right of a woman to decide what to do with her own body. i too have witnessed the physical effects on women who have been forced to undergo genital mutilation and it is abhorrent. it is barbaric, it is indefensible. no culture, no religion can defend this practice and i am pleased that the un general assembly will consider this vitally important subject at its 67th session. i am also pleased that the africa group will be leading on this, but this is not only happening in africa and on other continents, it is also happening here, as was said earlier, in europe. some 500 000 women are living with the effects of female genital mutilation and 180 000 are still at risk. think of that: 180 000 at risk. women and young girls. it shames us all. (applause)
madam president, while i am opposed to this institution, i welcome any forum to discuss an issue that is so repugnant. worldwide, it is estimated that well over 120 million women will be subjected to female genital mutilation. the aim of the process is to ensure that the woman is faithful to her future husband. some communities consider girls ineligible for marriage if they have not been circumcised. how can you use religion and cultural tradition to excuse child abuse? it has been reported that girls as young as three undergo this process. member states must tackle, and take a lead in combating, this despicable crime. where the crime takes place in a member state, strong custodial sentences must be passed. when aid is provided to countries where this is prevalent, conditions must be put in place to send a clear message that this practice must stop. thankfully, due to health campaigns, female circumcision has been falling in some countries in the last decade. these involve a week-long programme of community education about the negative effects of female genital mutilation, culminating in a coming of age ceremony for young women. the young women are secluded for a week and undergo classes on reproduction, anatomy, hygiene, respect for adults, developing self-esteem and dealing with peer pressure. all of us here must do whatever we can to stop this barbarism.
author. − madam president, i agree with nearly everything that is in the resolution before us this evening. i am looking forward to hearing commissioner dalli tell us how the revision of the medical devices directive will take on board the lessons we can learn from the pip scandal which, as ms auconie has said, has affected so many women in the european union and beyond. but i want to talk tonight about something a little wider than our resolution. it is about my amendment on advertising. we do not allow prescription medicines to be advertised in the european union, yet we do allow magazines – women’s magazines mainly – to publish adverts like this: pages and pages of glossy, full colour adverts urging women to get breast implants. two countries have already banned this kind of advertising – france and belgium – but in the rest of europe this is pretty normal stuff. i wonder, commissioner, whether you could tell us if anything can be done about it at european level. if you look at the websites of these same companies, they have these frequently asked questions about breast surgery on them. it tells you how much you will pay, and how to get a loan to have the surgery. it does give you some facts about the surgery, but nowhere does it say that 30 % of women will have to have a new implant within 10 years, and that nearly all implants have to be replaced at least every 10 to 15 years. in other words, if you go at the age of 32, which is the average age for having a breast implant, for the rest of your life you will have to another implant and then another implant, and so on. i looked at three reputable companies. not one website mentioned this fact – not one. i do not think that is good enough. when people have major surgery it is a risk to their health and i do not think there is enough information out there. we need informed patients. commissioner, i do not know what your competence is, but as we have laws on advertising prescription medicines, i consider it about time we regulated this industry, which is encouraging people to take risks. many women who have been surveyed were not aware that this meant repeat operation after repeat operation. (applause)
author. − madam president, six months after the pip breast implant scandal hit the headlines, the european parliament is finally getting round to addressing this appalling case of medical malpractice. it is staggering to comprehend how pip, once the world’s third largest supplier of breast implants, could disregard the law for almost ten years. it is important we learn from public health incidents such as this. however, it is also vital that we examine all the facts before drawing conclusions on how a system might need to change to prevent such malpractice happening again. in addition, we must stress that the pip scandal does not illustrate a failure of the current compliance system. this was a criminal offence that involved manufacturers placing a substandard product on the market. although the committee resolution contains plenty of positive measures that will improve the regulatory framework for medical devices, the text also includes demands for a pre-market authorisation. this duplicates existing laws and standards and is needlessly disproportionate in my view. paragraph 22, for example, tabled by the greens, calls for toxicology assessments on all medical devices. do we really think that by nitpicking over the toxicity of everything, from elastic bandages to pacemakers, people will stop breaking the law? care should always be taken not to use a sledgehammer to crack a nut and i caution against knee-jerking responses that could fundamentally alter a regulatory system that has been protecting patients for more than 20 years. my group has therefore tabled an amendment and several requests for split and separate votes, in the hope that we can iron out these inconsistencies.
madam president, this issue stems from the failure of the french authorities to regulate its manufacturing industry. typically, ‘france has a take it or leave it’ approach to regulations that it expects other countries to adopt. in june 2000, us medical regulators posted a warning letter on the internet about problems at a breast-implant maker in southern france. the french authorities did not pay this much attention. the french health authorities acknowledged as much in a 175-page report published on 1 february this year. radical change is needed in europe to ensure proper surveillance of medical devices. france has shown itself incapable of regulating itself and should have external checks. many thousands of women have suffered, and are continuing to suffer, because of french negligence. france should be made to compensate all women affected by this negligence. in future there needs to be more communication with the surgeons, the clinics and the patients. these companies must be checked and the findings should be open to inspection by health professionals.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i also offer my congratulations to the rapporteur and to the shadow rapporteurs. better regulation should simplify the rules, unravel the tangle and make interpretation and implementation simpler, and this is a thread which clearly runs through the commission’s proposal. i absolutely agree that infants, young children and people with particular medical conditions should be protected from misleading information, but i do ask myself sometimes whether we have really simplified this proposal, or whether we are just making it more complicated, but in slightly different areas. yes, it is true, as the rapporteur said, that we had an agreement, but that agreement was breached by putting amendments to this plenary session, so i feel quite free on my own account to breach it too. so i will talk about the issues that i did not sign up to in the compromise. the first was the proposal on gluten-free. i certainly do not believe that the proposal that we have come up with in committee makes it easier for consumers. i do not believe it adds anything at all to their safety or to the protection of their vulnerability. it is protecting certain manufacturers in certain countries, and certain national regimes, and we should cut across that. i also have particular problems with the low calorie diet and very low calorie diet proposals from committee. they were offered no evidence at all that medicalising people who have a condition known to threaten their health would be helped by making it more difficult for them to get hold of the products that they find useful. again, following on with the ‘no evidence’, we were offered no evidence at all on the advertising of the milk products, the follow-on milk. it was an emotional reaction, which i am sure is very worthy, but there was no evidence. we should be making our rules based on the evidence in front of us. again, on these new amendments on pesticides, we already have, in my view, strict and well-regulated rules in place for the use of pesticides. no evidence was produced, beyond opinion, that it was necessary to provide stricter controls for these vulnerable groups. if we are going to make these points and legislate on them, people should at least have the courtesy of showing us decent evidence as to why we should go along that road. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, the simple answer is that i think the speaker is wrong. it is a question of whether or not these groups are helped. i do not believe that they are helped by this extra proposal. i do not think it helps at all. i think the proposal and the regulation we are putting in place on food – across food information for consumers, health claims – is all adequate. adding to this proposal does not help consumers at all. in fact, it may confuse them.
mr president, this report has been a huge task and i welcome many of the changes made by the commission and the rapporteur. however, i want to focus on one particular issue, which is the advertising of so-called follow-on formula milk for infants over six months old. the world health organisation and most paediatricians agree that these formulas are not necessary. currently there is a ban on advertising formula milk for newborns, but follow-on formula can be, and is, widely advertised. last year i tried to stop a misleading health claim on follow-on milk with the support of the majority of meps, but sadly we did not get the absolute majority we needed to block the claim. research shows that due to marketing techniques many parents do not know the difference between infant formula and follow-on formula and that they start using follow-on formula far too early. i fear that allowing advertising of follow-on formulas creates a loophole in the ban on advertising infant formula and it is a loophole that we should definitely close. obviously, parents are naturally anxious to provide the best nutrition possible for their children, but they should make these decisions on the basis of objective information from experts and not be pressurised by industry into buying products that may not be necessary. i therefore urge all members to vote in favour of amendment 86. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, the member is right, it is an awful long time since i had a child, since i am a lot older than she is. i have to say that i never actually used formula milk. i only breast fed, but that is irrelevant. this is not actually about whether a woman chooses to breast feed or bottle feed. i have no problem with whatever a woman chooses to do – that is entirely up to her, as people have different life experiences and different life styles. they may have various problems with breast feeding. however, many parents – and research has proven this – do not understand the difference between infant formula and follow-on formula. the member should look at the research if she does not believe me. surely what we should not be doing is misleading parents into buying things that they should not necessarily be giving to their children.
rapporteur. − mr president, the danish presidency informed me some weeks ago that there will be no fresh reading agreement on my report on a multiannual plan for west of scotland herring. this follows a similar blockage in council on the implementation of pat the cope gallagher’s report on a multiannual plan for the western stock of atlantic horse mackerel, which has been log-jammed for the past three years. a report by ms bilbao barandica on a multiannual plan for anchovy in the bay of biscay has been similarly blocked. this is a pattern which has emerged not only in respect of fisheries reports, but across all the work of our parliamentary committees where delegated acts and implementing acts have been disputed. my understanding is that the council refuses to accept that, under the terms of the lisbon treaty, it no longer has the sole right to determine such matters. i have suggested in my report on west of scotland herring that, via delegated acts, the commission will evaluate the implementation of multi-annual plans in full consultation with the pelagic rac, the international council for the exploration of the seas and the scientific technical and economic committee for fisheries. parliament and the council can veto the commission recommendations under delegated acts. the alternative is to use implementing acts which give the council more say in the evaluation of multiannual plans, but in this case parliament can only give advice to the commission and – of course – our advice can always be ignored. it appears that this blockage in the council is emanating from the official working groups, rather than from the ministers themselves. the working groups are determined to retain ownership of all multiannual plans through the use of implementing acts under the terms of article 43(3) tfeu, which gives them sole competence. parliament and the commission are demanding the right to deal with these multiannual plans under article 43(2) tfeu, under the ordinary legislative procedure. even the council’s own legal services agree with parliament and the commission on this issue, but the council remains steadfast in its opposition to delegated acts and the blockage seems set to continue. in respect of the current reform of the common fisheries policy, this legislative blockage is very dangerous indeed. to bring stability to the market and to provide fishermen and processors with the necessary long-term security that high levels of investment in the industry require, multiannual management plans must be introduced for the main commercial stocks. how can we argue that there is not enough money in the emff to reintroduce subsidised new-build or modernisation for eu fishing vessels when we are unable to offer our fishermen the reassurance that they can borrow large sums of money from the bank to build or modernise their own vessels based on multiannual plans for fisheries management. no eu bank, particularly during the current economic crisis, will lend a fisherman up to eur 2 million to build a new white fish vessel, unless he can show that there is a multiannual stock management plan in place that will give a concrete assurance of sustainable fishing over a long period. the current situation is untenable and puts at risk the entire cfp reform process. if we end up going to the european courts to resolve this crisis, which looks increasingly likely, it could derail the entire timetable for cfp reform, and it is worth noting that we have no legal basis for a new reformed cfp after 1 january 2014. it is essential, therefore, that we resolve this issue. i look to the cypriot presidency to knock heads together in the council to end this legislative log jam.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this report was unanimously adopted in the committee on fisheries, and that is not a frequent occurrence on fisheries issues, which can be highly controversial at times. our rapporteur says in the report that his report is about safeguarding parliament’s rights under the treaty of lisbon. the fact is that the lisbon treaty has created a confused and unsatisfactory situation in relation to fisheries management decision-making. the cfp reform process provides an opportunity for us to re-examine and radically change the whole structure of fisheries management by sweeping away the over-centralised methods which have so badly failed us in the past. instead of obsessively safeguarding the rights of eu institutions, we ought to be designing a framework of decision-making which will actually work, and which will succeed in its objectives. in my view, that means maximum decentralisation so that europe’s fishing nations can be empowered, working together in logical sea basins to conserve stocks for their own long-term benefit; and yet the commission claims that the lisbon treaty prevents them from proposing as much decentralisation as they would like. parliament’s legal services take a different view. the result is confusion and endless wrangling about eu institutions’ rights. i hope that this parliament, as part of the cfp reform process, will put the preservation of fish stocks, and therefore fishing-dependent communities, first, before this obsessively protectionist view on our own input and our own centralised management systems which have miserably failed in the past.
mr president, at 4.30 yesterday morning, ministers in the agriculture and fisheries council finished their deliberations on the common fisheries policy and put great emphasis, for hour after hour, on the need for a fishery-by-fishery approach based upon multiannual plans. of course, all this was a chimera, a nonsense, a fraud, so long as they continue to block the creation of these multiannual plans. the council wants to be able to continue to allow ministers to set tacs and quotas each year because they have been a brilliant success over the years. we know they have – every year they have met in december and set tacs and quotas above the scientific recommendations, which is the reason we have such a depletion of our fish stocks today. not surprisingly, some members of this parliament would like to tie the hands of ministers a little and commit them to long-term management plans that make some sense, but we recognise what the treaty says, and there was a genuine dispute between the powers of parliament and the powers of the council which must be resolved, and will only be resolved by us getting round the table and negotiating. struan stevenson said that he was looking to the cypriot presidency to put this on the agenda, but i look to the danish presidency. you have two weeks. i do not ask you to seek a solution, but what i do ask the presidency to do is to come forward with a procedure for reaching a solution. the sooner the council and parliament sit round the table and start negotiating, the sooner we will be able to put multiannual plans at the heart of a sensible fishing policy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, according to the commission, there are now some 20 fish stocks in the whole of the european union which are at maximum sustainable yield. this is a huge improvement on the situation of previous years where there have been virtually no stocks at maximum sustainable yield. twenty out of 250 or so is progress: small, but progress nonetheless, and i believe – though others who know the scottish situation better than myself can comment – that herring are one of the fish stocks which are currently in a better state than hitherto.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank commissioner dalli and all my colleagues who participated in the debate. we have heard repeatedly from colleagues in this debate that the key issue is the blockage by the council of these multiannual plans. we attach such importance to this issue that a delegation led by the chairman of the committee on fisheries, gabriel mato adrover, went yesterday to see president schulz himself. he was hugely supportive and said that he has made it his absolute priority that eu legislative democracy lies with this house. we are the directly elected representatives of the citizens of europe. it is a disgrace that we are having this debate when parliament and the commission are in full agreement and there is no one from the danish presidency sitting here, or indeed listening to this debate. they are not treating this with sufficient seriousness. president schulz agreed to raise this matter with the incoming cypriot presidency and, if necessary, to raise it with council president herman van rompuy himself. we need to rattle heads together and get this logjam unblocked. i would like to raise one final point. commissioner dalli, you said that you were accepting – and i am grateful to you – most of the amendments in my report, but you were a bit worried that we were going too far in asking the commission to consult with stecf, ices and the pelagic rac. i think it is absolutely essential – and you have heard this from many of the speakers in this debate – that the stakeholders themselves must be consulted. it is avoiding consultation with the stakeholders that has led to many of the problems in the fisheries sector. i would ask you to look carefully at the result of today’s votes in the house, and i hope the commission may then think again.
in writing. – i agree with the commission’s proposal in that it suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt fishing mortality rates and associated spawning stock biomass levels to scientific findings, and the ordinary legislative procedure in order to make other changes to the plan. the simplification of the evaluation procedure seems reasonable, as does the commission’s intention to keep the plan applicable even if the stock migrates into another area.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i too would have liked to have seen the commissioner here this morning, but my understanding is that he is in china, so let us hope he is in china and creating good markets for us to sell our produce out there. we have once again experienced a downward trend in the incomes of dairy farmers throughout europe. this brings home to us just how fragile and volatile the dairy market has become. while it seems that prices have steadied to some degree in recent weeks, no-one can claim that the problem is over. it is obvious that events in the global dairy market have an immediate effect on the livelihoods of producers and processors in europe. the council took, many years ago now, the decision to abolish milk quotas in 2015 – and i was the rapporteur for the dairy package which will be implemented when quotas come to an end in the member states. but i have this to say that i am not convinced that the legislation will prove to be an adequate replacement for the quota system, for many small dairy farmers will be left very vulnerable in the face of quota abolition. voluntarily it will not disappear, and we need to be prepared to respond faster and faster response mechanisms, which we have not seen to date. there must also be enhanced cooperation between the producers and the processors in the industry if the industry is to stabilise and realise its full potential. within the overall framework of the cap reform, we should ensure that adequate market measures are put in place to protect producers against this extreme volatility. we all speak about, or have heard of, the ‘soft landing’ and i have to say, quoting the former commissioner, mariann fischer boel, that this has proved to be a nightmare for the commission in the long-term. however, may i finish with a point. let us not talk ourselves into feeling that things cannot be made better. they can be made better if we all work together.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the uk diary sector is unique: cooperatives are less important than elsewhere and we have traditionally consumed much more fresh milk. a few years ago i would have added that we alone have doorstep delivery, but that has declined in a decade from nearly half the market to just 5 %. it has been killed by the supermarkets and that is because the british supermarket chains form a complex oligopoly so powerful that it is impossible for suppliers to negotiate as equals. they use their market power to relentlessly dominate and take a greater share of the value. the milk package was a chance to address this. i am not getting at jim nicholson, but it cannot work, because the most important element is missing from it. the whole supply chain from farm to jug is what counts and if the retailers are excluded from this you may as well not bother. what can british farmers do now? they must use the ombudsman to best effect: to challenge supermarket power; and they must not assume that relentless expansion in cow numbers is the way ahead.
mr president, after relatively buoyant prices through 2010, is it any wonder that production rose dramatically and we are now seeing the market oversupplied and prices starting to slide? the ability of milk producers to turn on the tap has never been easier. the ability to put extra feed into big holstein cows and knock out a thousand litres per head is just so easy. this is a reflection of the market signals indicating better returns. the question scottish milk producers are asking is whether this is the start of a long-term slide or just a blip in the market as it evens out. we will have to wait and see. the biggest concern of scottish and uk producers has been that of the constant uk price being lower than the rest of the eu. again, in 2011, we are 11.8 % below the eu price. part of the problem is the power of the retailers – which one of my colleagues has already alluded to – but another part of the problem has been poor returns from the manufacturing sector due to lack of brands and lack of value-added products. in the last few weeks we have seen huge changes in the uk market as arla, the danish farmers co-op, has taken over milk link and now controls 25 % of the uk market and müller has bought wiseman and now controls 16 % of the uk market. it is hoped that these companies, with their strong brands and their large export markets, will help address some of the fundamental problems that we have had in the manufacturing sector and act as a balance against the power of the retailer when it comes to purchasing milk.
mr president, the announcement of the ending of cooperation with the justice and home affairs council has taken me somewhat by surprise, considering the previous criticisms of the united kingdom for taking its ball away when it decide not to cooperate with the european council.
mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to explain our views on this particular issue. i would like to congratulate mr stevenson, my ecr colleague, on getting this vote through and for the support he obtained. but actually, when you look at the common fisheries policy overall, it is quite clear it has been a failure. it has been an exercise in central planning: it might as well be called a communist fisheries policy because it has led to unsustainable seas with not enough fish stocks. surely the lesson we should be learning as we go forward with any fisheries policy is that in the best ones – the ones that have worked, the ones from iceland, new zealand, the falkland islands and other areas – you have a fisheries policy based on property rights which can be traded on, which families can inherit, trade on or sell on. that way there is an incentive to maintain the stocks in a sustainable way, rather than this sort of communist, centrally-controlled fisheries policy, which has actually led to the depletion of our fish stocks and to disaster. it is time we moved towards a market-based approach.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on the stock of herring distributed to the west of scotland. i fully support the proposal in the report that scientific organisations should be playing a more fundamental role in the modification of the multiannual plan. in my view, the commission should be required to seek advice and to consult bodies such as the pelagic regional advisory council and the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries before it makes any changes to the multiannual plan as suggested. it is vital that we preserve these fish stocks, and any advice that can be gained on mortality rates and associated spawning stock biomass levels from the experts will surely help the commission in reaching an evidence-based decision and more suitable regulations ensuring that these vital marine stocks are managed effectively.
mr president, it does seem odd given what is happening outside this chamber – the bank runs, the economic crisis – that we are spending time talking about major accident hazards involving dangerous substances, but then it occurred to me that there is a certainly grisly aptness in this report. the most dangerous substance of all turned out to be the euro! i do not mean that in a literal sense – while i understand that some people did have an allergic reaction to the particular kind of alloy used in the coins, even i am not going to try and turn that into an argument against the single currency. what happened was that our leaders, so taken with their dream of political union, disregarded all of the economic danger signs with the calamitous consequences that we can see around us today: poverty, preventable deflation, emigration, despair and the prospect of endless tax rises, all because we were so in love with this dream of ever-closer union. outside the european parliament in brussels there is that statue of a female figure holding aloft the euro sign as a symbol to the greatness of the currency. years from now, when there is tumbleweed blowing through that part of town and the european parliament is in ruins, archaeologists will find its vast and trunkless legs of stone and see the inscription on the pedestal: ‘look on my works, ye mighty, and despair’.
mr president, it is important that we consider all sorts of hazardous and toxic materials. i am very pleased that we have actually looked at this issue, but in the context of the wider economic situation it is also important that we look at some toxic and hazardous substances there. we should look at the issue of toxic debt and why governments have been spending more money than they had coming in and therefore got themselves into a difficult situation. we should be looking at the issue of moral hazard, where we are now trying to encourage banks or governments to build up lots of money in case a bank fails. that just creates a moral hazard, because why would you act responsibly if you know there is a pot of money there waiting for you? we should also look at the danger of the euro for countries that are not competitive. look at what is happening in greece and spain; they cannot maintain this, and it is hazardous for their citizens. we should be looking at all hazardous substances, including substances that make countries poor.
mr president, our supermarket shelves are stacked high with food claiming to cater for specific needs. there is specialised food and drink for infants and old people; there are products for those trying to lose weight as well as those trying to gain weight. customers deserve a choice, but they also need to understand what they are buying and consuming. this report calls for clearer and simpler rules for the labelling of so-called diet products. i hope that when member states implement this legislation it will lead to a reduction rather than an increase in red tape. the new legislation should also facilitate – rather than prevent – small and medium-sized companies from accessing the market. consumers need clear information and companies need simple rules to allow them to compete effectively. for these reasons i support the report.
mr president, the right of every citizen to deal with brussels institutions in his own language is one of the few remaining signs that this is an association of nations rather than a single polity. i have very little patience with the argument which one hears very often, even in my constituency, that the eu as a whole – or at least the european parliament – should adopt just english, or just english and french, or just english, french and german. if you remove the requirement for the eu to produce everything in every national language, you simultaneously remove the biggest obstacle to a superstate. that said, we are adopting, if not in the literal sense, something of a common language in the way in which we debate these matters in this chamber. we use phrases which one never hears anywhere except here: ‘respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality’, ‘bringing europe closer to the people’, ‘the answer is more europe, not less europe’, ‘the people are demanding that we do more’. these are phrases that you only ever hear from eurocrats and meps. it is difficult not to think of the appendix to george orwell’s 1984, where he talks about ‘duckspeak’: the engagement of the larynx without the engagement of the higher brain centres at all. when you talk in clichés you are almost certainly thinking in clichés, and that is why we are in the mess we are in.
mr president, i abstained on the vote on this statement on public consultations and their availability in all eu languages. of course, it is important that each and every citizen of our union should have a right to address the institutions in any of the eu official languages, and that must be respected. it is also important that all consultations are given the same treatment so that they are all accessible to the same degree, but i do not support the multilingual system in our institutions, both for meps and officials, as this is too expensive and inefficient. i have no love for the eu tower of babel and i believe that three working languages would suffice – namely english, french and german. the un, with 186 member countries, only has six working languages, and the council of europe, with 47 member countries – including all the eu member states – has only two, and yet the eu, at a time of austerity and cuts, still insists on all 23.
mr president, well if i may continue briefly with my 1984 analogy, we are all familiar in politics with the concept of doublethink: the ability to hold two contradictory views simultaneously in your mind. it comes out in all sorts of ways. for example, a lot of people will be aggressively in favour of the rights of indigenous communities in poor parts of the world to be left undisturbed and yet will be aggressively in favour of immigration and multiculturalism in other parts of the world. that is human nature and i suppose we all do that. but tibet is a particularly egregious example of it. in this chamber we like to pat ourselves on the back for being on the side of democracy, freedom and self-determination, but when we try to apply that same logic to the european union, the doublethink kicks in. if tibetans are better off living under their own laws and their own people, then why are not portuguese or germans or british people or any other democratic community in europe? how extraordinary that having developed this idea of national self-determination and exported it around the world, we have turned out backs on it here in the continent it came from.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on tibet. the situation in tibet is still very alarming, with the whereabouts of many of the buddhist-monk victims of self-immolation largely unknown. it is important that the prc authorities reveal this information as soon as possible. i back the repeated calls for even greater efforts to address the poor human rights situation in tibet within the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue. it is vital that the chinese authorities continue and intensify their discussions with representatives of the dalai lama on the situation in tibet, as a lasting solution can only be found if it is a solution which respects the cultural autonomy and maximum political devolution of tibet within china. moving ever more han chinese people into tibet will only exacerbate this situation.
mr president, one of the sad things about the reaction of many politicians here in the eu to the financial crisis is that, while they complain about austerity, there is actually no alternative plan. austerity is very important to make sure that never again do we fall into the trap of spending more money than we have coming in but, at the same time, it is important that we look at measures that boost growth and make sure that we can create the jobs for people right across the eu. there can probably be no better tool available, whether you are sceptical or a believer in the european project, than a single market. we really need to continue to boost the single market and welcome the proposal for a single market act ii, which would reduce more barriers between member states and actually tackle some of those professions and industries which have been allowed to hide behind protectionism. let us give our businesses and companies a larger marketplace, give them a platform for the global stage; otherwise they will seek not to trade with europe but to trade with emerging markets, elsewhere.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion on the future of the single market. the single market has been one of the few triumphs of the european union, bringing huge benefits to all its citizens and many new opportunities for european businesses, as well as driving economic growth and employment. in the current poor economic climate, however, we must be cautious that any measures the eurozone takes for a banking and fiscal union do not freeze out the uk financial services sector from continental europe. i am proud to represent the city of london, so this is very important to the interests of my region. it should now be our focus to implement key legislation on growth, quickly – for instance, we could actually enhance the effectiveness of the services directive – and to cut the red tape and other remaining obstacles to free movement of goods, capital, services and workers.
mr president, ‘towards a job-rich recovery’ is a report title that could really have come straight out of the ministry of truth – and i promise that is going to be my last orwellian reference of the day. we have had all these promises of job-rich recoveries before. we had one when i was a new mep – it was the lisbon agenda, do you remember that? it was going to give europe the most successful, competitive, knowledge-based economy in the world by the year 2010. well 2010 has come and gone and, as sarah palin might ask, how’s that working out for you all? then it was the euro. we have forgotten that this was one of the great arguments we were given in favour of monetary union – that it would boost employment throughout the eurozone. again, how’s that working out? now we are on to our latest conceit, our latest bit of hubris. the truth is we politicians cannot create jobs; we cannot legislate them into effect. even if i employ somebody in my office i am doing so with taxpayers’ money which is being taken out of the private sector where it would have been used more efficiently. one thing we could do is stop destroying jobs with pointless, intrusive, pettifogging regulation, to allow the entrepreneurs, who are the real drivers of the economy, to create jobs and employment.
mr president, this debate on ‘towards a job-rich recovery’ actually highlights the philosophical difference between the state interventionists on the left and those on the right who believe in markets and a more liberal approach to economics. those on the left believe that they simply use more taxpayers’ money to create artificial jobs with the state, but they also want as many people on welfare as possible so, when it comes to elections, they can knock on people’s doors and say ‘if you vote for the parties of the right not only will you lose your job but you will also lose your welfare’. those of us on the right believe that what you need to do is create the right conditions for growth: get governments out of the way of markets; get governments out of the way of entrepreneurs and allow them to create real sustainable jobs – not jobs dependent on governments spending more taxpayers’ money than they have actually got and getting themselves into debt, but the creation of real sustainable jobs in the private sector so that they can then pay their taxes.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on female genital mutilation (fgm). with an estimated 140 million women and girls worldwide living with the terrible consequences of female genital mutilation, and at least half a million of them in europe –including, sadly, many in my own region of london – this is a huge issue. though fgm is a traditional practice in the horn of africa, it is not a requirement of any religion. it is a barbaric practice performed for the most part on girls younger than fifteen years old, leaving them with very serious long-term consequences and irreparable injuries. complications of the procedure such as haemorrhaging, infection, transmission of the hiv virus and complications – even to pregnancy and eventual childbirth – can sometimes be fatal. i back calls for the un general assembly to ban the practice across all its member states, and for our own member states in the european union to criminalise the practice at national level. in the united kingdom we need to see more prosecutions of both parents and surgeons who do this. it is still going on illegally and yet our police, for reasons of cultural sensitivity, are very reluctant to act, sadly.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution but would like to point out that, since herring is a migratory species, the specification of the area that the stock of herring distributed to the west of scotland currently inhabits should serve to distinguish it from other stocks but should not prevent this plan from applying in the event that that stock changes its mobility patterns.
in writing. − in voting for this proposal i backed amendment 86 which calls for restrictions on advertising infant food and follow-on food.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and support its call to the commission to ensure that every eu citizen’s right to address the eu institutions in any of the eu’s official languages is fully respected and implemented by ensuring that public consultations are available in all eu official languages, that all consultations are treated equally and that there is no language-based discrimination between consultations.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and its call for the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy of the eu to increase and intensify efforts to address the human rights situation of the tibetans in the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue.
in writing. − with regard to the resolution on the future of the single market act, i abstained on amendment 8 of this report because, while i recognise the very real need to combat tax evasion, i also think that all taxation issues, with regard to both personal and corporation tax, should remain exclusively within the competencies of the individual countries.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which believes that the external dimension of the single market needs to be reinforced, in particular by enhancing cooperation in the field of international standardisation, and that synergies achievable between the union’s internal and external economic policies, namely between the single market and trade, should be pursued.
in writing. − i support parliament’s call in this resolution for existing laws and measures on the single market to be implemented properly. single-market opportunities, when used effectively in areas such as energy, transport, retail, research and development, and labour mobility could have a positive impact on economic growth as well as bringing significant benefits to consumers. the resolution, which has my backing, calls for a yearly report that will show where consumers and businesses can benefit from the single market and where barriers still exist that stop consumers from buying what they want, e.g. while internet shopping.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which suggests that the commission resume its work on the ninth company law directive on groups of companies in order to provide a regulatory framework for this common form of business association. it believes that there is no need for fully harmonised european corporate legislation on groups, but rather a need for a set of common rules on, inter alia, the protection of subsidiaries and stakeholders and greater transparency as regards legal and ownership structure.
in writing. − i worked closely with the shadow on this resolution to call for pro-growth reforms to the labour market to tackle unemployment. i was happy to vote in favour of this resolution having achieved some very sensible compromises making it into a progressive positive position for the ep to take with regard to jobs and growth. it highlights the importance of improving the business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which are the cornerstone of employment within the eu. it also touches on the need to support entrepreneurs and self starters in developing new businesses and social enterprises which are vital for global competitiveness. i am really pleased that the focus here is on social enterprises and youth entrepreneurship and i will continue to promote these as much a possible within the employment committee. i voted against amendment 11, which had it been passed would have deleted an important call for reform of european employment legislation in order to increase worker mobility and stimulate job creation. it is crucial that member states take decisive action now to liberalise their labour markets in order to build competitive economies that will deliver sustainable growth in the long term. a sustainable and competitive european economy based on real economic performance not endless public borrowing is the only route to creating jobs and reducing our unemployment rates.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and welcome the fact that it stresses how the employment situation of young people is highly dependent on the overall economic situation and how important support, guidance and monitoring is for young people in their move from education to professional life. i also welcome its call for the commission to align any future policy proposals in this area with the ‘youth on the move’ and ‘youth opportunities’ initiatives.
in writing. − my conservative colleagues and i welcome the commission’s communication on a job-rich recovery which seeks to complement the employment priorities of member states. there are many points within this resolution that we agree with. we certainly welcome calls to support and promote entrepreneurship, business start-ups and the self employed. smes and micro-enterprises are the backbone of our economy and are a huge source of employment. we do not welcome attempts to use the commission’s communication as an opportunity to call for greater harmonisation of eu employment legislation. we believe that a one-size-fits-all approach will prevent social inclusion, prevent poverty reduction and will impact hugely on our ability to deliver more jobs and does not adequately address the diversities that exist between member states. we believe it is unrealistic to call for a stronger role for the eu by introducing new measures such as controls and sanctions. we do not support attempts to use the commission’s communication as an opportunity to establish minimum wages. for these reasons we have voted against this resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this report in the understanding that across the eu the lack of depth in governmental reaction to job losses is going to further exacerbate social cohesion. many of the ideas contained in the report are self-justified, but i particularly wish to mark out the ‘youth guarantee’ which creates real hope for a generation that can be easily broken by failure to act. people are losing their homes, their jobs and their identity in the economic system. this sets a scene for further economic and social breakdown. i therefore commend many points and ideas in this report.
in writing. − this resolution, based on the commission’s policy paper on a job-rich recovery, has my full support. throughout the eu many citizens are worried about the job market in their country and in the current economic climate it is vitally important that there is an increased focus on creating jobs and growth. the resolution focuses on the commission’s paper, which highlights the benefit of setting minimum wages in order to help the working poor and which i am fully in favour of. the european youth guarantee scheme to tackle youth unemployment is an important part of the resolution and the resolution also asks the commission and eu governments to invest in smes and microenterprises, which provide over two thirds of private sector jobs in the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution as there are no circumstances which justify forced female genital mutilation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and welcome its recommendations. a breast implant register, more stringent safety checks, improved product traceability, and a pre-market authorisation system are among the measures proposed.
author. − mr president, the sahel region has been experiencing sustained difficulties for a number of years. a dire combination of severe drought, famine and chronic poverty and a deteriorating security situation has resulted in literally thousands of internally displaced persons. continuing large migratory flows across poorly demarcated borders and desert areas have exacerbated the problems. the sahel now faces an additional real and sinister threat from a plethora of islamist militant groups allied to al-qaeda which seek to capitalise upon internal turmoil to further their radical agendas. eu nationals are being kidnapped and murdered brutally both in mali and niger. there is also now a problem, following the libyan conflict, with tuareg mercenaries who have become part of the secessionist movement in mali. the breakaway region in northern mali is now in danger of becoming another somalia if we are not careful. all this adds up to a dire humanitarian situation across this vast region, so i now call upon the high representative to redouble european union efforts amongst the international community to prevent this crisis from becoming an unbridled catastrophe, both humanitarian and security-wise for the west.
mr president, i too express my deep concern over the reported climate of impunity that has developed in recent years in the philippines. of particular concern was the 2009 tragic massacre of 57 individuals, including civil rights campaigners and journalists, participating in a peaceful convoy in maguindanao. this tragic event illustrates the extent to which the manila government is increasingly presiding over a criminal culture of intimidation, extra-judicial killings and widespread corruption. the philippines currently ranks just above the notoriously corrupt and failed state of somalia in terms of press freedom. i therefore urge president benigno aquino to respect his country’s commitment to the rule of law and to upholding fundamental human rights by, for instance, instigating a witness protection programme to protect witnesses, and also by fighting very strongly to eliminate all the forced disappearances and all the harassment of the political opposition in what is otherwise a beautiful country.
mr president, véronique de keyser was right when she said that iran is not a mono-cultural society although it is obviously an islamic republic. i can say though that, as all the other speakers have said, it is very dangerous to be a member of an ethnic minority or a religious minority in iran. i can support this motion, therefore, which promotes the universality of human rights in iran and across all the ethnic minorities and religious groups. the number of groups, as speakers have said, are many – those that we know of that can be easily identified by size or religious identity. however, converts from certain religions to other religions also face, potentially, a very uncertain future and may be bigger than some of the ethnic minorities that we know about in iran. so, like others in the room, i would like to see the broadest capture of ethnic minorities so that the communities like the assyrian christians and others can be added and included in our statement.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the subject of tachographs is one that has constantly evolved over many years. changes in technology have seen us move from analogue to digital, and now we have a report that really asks the question: how far can we take this? it is often said here in parliament that because we have technical capability we need to do something with it. i disagree. just because we can do something does not mean that we must. there is a suggestion that we merge driving licences with tachograph records. i do not agree. the two are not the same. one is private, one is professional. like the limiting of a company’s liability, there must be protection for the individual acting in a private capacity. as for the subject of ‘big brother’s eye in the sky’ and satellite tracking of vehicles, this makes me very uncomfortable. if equal enforcement across europe is our main concern, then that should be the focus, not creating a new way of tracking people. finally i would like to tackle what i regard as the elephant in the room: namely the question of money. how are we to pay for this? is it necessary at this time? do you want to force struggling businesses to pay for it? no, it is not necessary now. and we should not be adding costs to struggling businesses. in the current climate, they have enough to worry about.
mr president, a number of amendments have raised serious concerns inside the british freight industry. amendment 136 seeks to broaden the reach of the legislation by altering the weight threshold for vehicles subject to regulation, in some cases bringing it down to one-and-a-half tonnes. this brings millions of vans into the remit without any recourse to an impact assessment. it would bankrupt small businesses up and down the uk which are reliant upon such vehicles and do not have the resources to accommodate such a regulation. similarly, amendment 134 alters the weight limit down to 2.8 tonnes. whilst companies in germany operate under such limits, the uk does not. it broadens the scope of the legislation enormously, again without adequate justification. many representatives of the uk freight and haulage industry strongly oppose plans to prevent operators carrying out their own tachograph calibration. it is right that this amendment be lifted, and i hope that it stays out of future proposals. today’s proposals establish far-reaching surveillance that goes beyond anything anticipated or justified. i fear that permitting these amendments could pave the way for brussels to roll out similar levels of monitoring and enforcement for other road users and in other industries.
mr president, i am of course in favour of controlling the hours driven by commercial and passenger vehicles in the interests of road safety. however, they should be drafted and enforced with flexibility and common sense and not an exercise in obsessive-compulsive disorder. the report seems to be keen on supporting a zero-tolerance enforcement policy. i am not. one of my constituents was recently fined gbp 600 for exceeding his allotted time by 15 minutes in an effort to get home that night. there is a need for convergence of these laws only in the case of vehicles that leave the countries from which they operate. it should not apply to those that remain within their own countries. even then convergence can just as easily be achieved by multilateral international agreements. there is no need for power-hungry supranational entities to get involved.
mr president, twelve years ago i was a member of parliament’s negotiating team working on the water framework directive and we persuaded member states to accept the requirement to achieve good water status by 2015. that was a proud achievement. now we are just three years off and it is clear that we are going to miss this target. building on the urban waste water treatment directive, some good progress has been made over the years. lots of rivers are cleaner across europe. we know that treating sewage and waste is expensive so perhaps it is not surprising that poorer countries have had trouble meeting the original targets. but what excuse have countries like belgium got? it treats only 65% of its waste water properly. france only treats 64% of its waste water and luxembourg only 56%. that is astonishing. i did not realise that luxembourg was an impoverished country that could not afford to deal with these problems, but apparently so. ensuring that we deal with our own human waste and stop polluting our rivers must be a top priority for the environment but, as so often, we come back to the problem that we must not simply pass laws in this parliament; we must also make sure that they are properly enforced.
mr president, the water framework directive has set ambitious goals, goals for reducing pollution, goals for improving the water environment and goals for promoting better use of water. i am pleased the rapporteur has addressed the issue of leaks in his report. 20% of water in the eu is lost due to inefficiency. in my constituency of london this rises to over 25%. until recently, in fact, my constituents have been forced to suffer a hosepipe ban during what has been, even for london, a particularly wet summer. these bans are bad for business and are putting local people’s jobs at risk. it is our job as policy-makers to ensure our constituents have access to clean, safe water at a fair price.
madam president, david cameron has suggested that there might be a referendum on the european union, but he does not know when and he does not know what the question should be. he only knows what the question will not be: should britain leave the european union? this is because he does not know what the eu will look like in the future. but we all know, do we not? those of us here on both sides of the eu argument know exactly that it is intended to be a single european political state, a united states of europe. the current eurozone crisis is being used to bring about financial and economic government and full political integration. the only person who apparently does not understand this is david cameron. the uk independence party can explain it to him, exactly as we are explaining it to his voters. the only referendum that the british people want is a straight question on whether we should stay in or get out and we want it sooner rather than later.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to do two things this morning. first of all, i want to wish the secretary-general of parliament a very happy birthday. i am sure he is delighted to be having to spend his birthday listening to us drone on in this chamber. secondly, and much more importantly, i would like to thank the danish presidency, their officials and ministers and all those whom we have dealt with over the last six months. of course, prime minister, as a socialist while i myself am a conservative, i am sure there are many issues on which we would disagree. however, i would like to pay tribute to the typical danish efficiency and practicality which has been sorely needed in the eu over the last six months. in particular your presidency should be congratulated for burying the financial transactions tax as an eu-wide initiative. it would have damaged many of the eu’s financial centres, and many ordinary savers and investors as well. your administration should also be thanked for refusing to reopen negotiations on the pregnant workers directive, which would have raised costs for businesses, reduced women’s choice and made it harder for many young women to find jobs. you should also be congratulated as a member of the eu net contributors club for pushing for budget restraint within the eu as well. in fact when i look at many of the policy areas, it seems there are many lessons that you could teach the wider socialist family about the responsibilities of power should you ever choose to come back to this parliament. regarding the row over the schengen evaluation mechanism, i have to say you have my sympathy on this. after all, the decision to change the legal base was made unanimously by the council – a council which, as mr daul and others often remind us, is made up predominantly of leaders of the epp. i think it is very unfair that the messenger should be shot over this incident. that aside, i think the danish presidency’s overall relationship with parliament has been extremely good and i would like to thank in particular your europe minister sitting behind you, mr wammen, for all the work that he has done. he sat there tirelessly day after day in this chamber, having to listen to a lot of brickbats and criticisms. i think he has done it extremely well, extremely courteously, and i am sure he has a great future ahead in your government. prime minister, overall your presidency has been a good honest broker between the institutions and we come away with a positive assessment of denmark’s time at the helm.
mr president, those who advance the european project see themselves as good europeans. in fact the project itself is geared towards the destruction of europe’s distinct identity. this can be seen clearly in the programme of the danish presidency. denmark sought to advance the candidature of turkey, a country that is not ancestrally, culturally or religiously european. it sought to facilitate legal immigration, claiming that europe is somehow in need of yet more immigrants. in january it promised that immigrants would be ensured smooth and non-bureaucratic access. they have certainly kept their word about that. it has paid lip service to a returns policy for illegal immigrants, but we know from frontex that they are not detained long but are released and given an order to leave that is neither checked for compliance nor enforced. the peoples of europe are not arbitrary collections of peoples who can be airbrushed out of the future and replaced by people from the third world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, firstly let me also congratulate spain on their great victory on sunday night. clearly, germany is not the most competitive european country at everything. of course at least it allows spain to boast of some success from the euros – well they are certainly more successful than france were at the games, anyway. when we look under the surface of last week’s summit, we find that, in reality, the decisions taken were, of course, just another set of short-term stopgaps. perhaps they relieve the immediate pressure points but it was hardly the game-changer that the irish prime minister claimed. using the bank recapitalisation and buying bonds may give spain and italy some breathing space. however, i find it slightly ironic that the same people in this house who want to bash the bankers and propose a financial transaction tax – to punish the bankers at every opportunity – are the same people that are perfectly happy for the risks and profligacy of those same bankers to be transferred on to the backs of taxpayers through these bailout funds. initially the markets responded positively on friday – finally perhaps they had seen some signs of life from eu leaders. however, as is usual in these things, already the deal seems to be unravelling. countries like finland and the netherlands are challenging the new roles for the bailout funds that they seemed to have agreed to in the summit on thursday night. when the dust has settled, the small print is read and the details are finally discussed, i fear that the outcome of this summit could be far less seismic than many in this house want to believe. that is because, yet again, the fundamental questions have not been answered. the lack of competitiveness of many countries has not been addressed. the possible mutualisation of debts has yet again been avoided. relying on the esm and the efsf is no long-term solution to this crisis because they are not bottomless pits of money with the power to grant our every wish. if they are being committed to bank bailouts and used for secondary bond purchases, will there in fact be anything left over for the sovereign bailouts for which, let us remember, they were originally, intended? let us not pretend that even this relatively small shift in german policy was arrived at with great harmony. even for these few small concessions it seems that italy had to hold the proverbial gun to germany’s head. in reality what we saw in the council highlighted that, even for countries in the euro, the mentality is still one of maximising national interests. now do not get me wrong, i fully support national governments fighting their corner. but let us also be clear that the euro was never a tool aimed at helping countries to defend their national interests. as margaret thatcher remarked in 1990, the single currency is about the politics of europe. it is about a federal europe by the back door. the great irony of it is that this very tool that was intended to unify the peoples of europe is in fact now driving them further apart, because it was always inevitable that permanent fiscal transfers would be required from the north to the south, with germany acting as the paymaster of less competitive countries. it was also inevitable that we would see the supranationalisation of economic policy, effectively rendering national democracy defunct within the eurozone. in the future, will there in fact be much point in holding elections in many eurozone countries if their budgets and fiscal policies are going to be rewritten by brussels every time? this is not a small point that should be brushed under the carpet; it is a fundamental issue of accountability of government to the peoples in their own democracies. at the moment we face an impasse: germany wants to supplant economic policy at eu level; the mediterranean countries want germany to underwrite their debts. i am reminded of the story of the two politicians. one says to the other, ‘ok, let’s be honest with each other’; the other one says, ‘all right, but you first’. inevitably someone has to move first – but let us never forget that there is an alternative. it is for the eurozone to reduce in size so that some countries have the ability to devalue their way back to relative competitiveness. that would be a political disaster for the euro’s cheerleaders, but for some countries it remains the least worst option and a possible way out of this crisis. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – of course, i do not disagree at all. if they have committed criminal acts they should be prosecuted. it is not me who wants to give them unlimited amounts of taxpayers’ money to bail them out from the costs of their own profligacy. this is the policy of the socialists and others that want to throw unlimited amounts of taxpayers’ cash at the very same bankers that you keep telling us you want to criticise.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, that is the 19th crisis summit that mr cameron has been to. as the rolling stones might say, the 19th nervous breakdown, and that is reflected i think by the funereal mood in this chamber this morning. yes, on that friday morning ‘breakthrough’ was cried, and indeed mr van rompuy parroted the word this morning: ‘breakthrough’. nobody believes you. the wheels are coming off. this european stability mechanism, your new bailout vehicle, is doomed before it starts. we have legal challenges in ireland and in germany. we have the estonian justice minister saying it will not fit their constitution but – most fun of all – the finns and the dutch seem to have broken the agreement that was made in the middle of the night. perhaps they were excluded from this, perhaps the little countries do not have a say in europe at all any more. it is not credible. the euro crisis now looks to me to be frankly insoluble. there is also a massive crisis of leadership. it is lovely to see you, mr van rompuy. you have not been here for many months; it is delightful to have you back. last time you were here you told us we had turned the corner, that the worst of the crisis was over. with every one of your predictions it goes on getting worse. i am sorry, sir: you do not have the presence, the credibility or the standing for the international markets to believe that you can provide a solution. and mr barroso here: at the g20 he stood up at the press conference and said that we do not need any lessons in democracy – said the unelected president of the european commission. i mean, he went on to say that the eurozone’s problems had been caused by unorthodox practices in north america. you have made yourselves an international laughing stock. you do not have any credibility. but one piece of helpful advice from me: do not this summer go on any billionaires’ yachts on extended holidays, because the markets guarantee we will all be back here in august.
in writing. – sinn féin welcomes any increase in investment in job creation and reduction in the cost of the debt burden. but the european council is still not serious about growth. there is only eur 10 billion of new investment. austerity remains a key pillar of the eu’s approach to the crisis. yet the eu continues to pour billions into the banks that are still operating largely unregulated and are gathering billions in personal wealth, storing it far from the reach of the public purse. the failed policy of austerity and bank bailouts to financial vampires who sucked the life blood from our economies needs to end. we need greater flexibility for member states to implement policies suited to their specific needs, we need investment in jobs to generate economic growth and assist in deficit reduction, and we need debt reduction to enable indebted member states to return to the markets at normal rates.
mr president, the eu has a strategy for the baltic, a strategy for the danube and now this report calls for a strategy for the mediterranean. soon there will not be a single european body of water without its own strategy. the economies of the mediterranean from cyprus to portugal are in trouble, but are we fools if we believe another strategy will solve the problem? eu regional funding is simply another layer of bureaucracy which is preventing, not promoting, growth in the economy. eu funds are about compliance, not performance, and many regions, including those in the mediterranean, have been failing to deliver results year after year. and what does the commission want to do? it wants to increase the budget for regional funds by 8%. there is no value added in this and the main strategy should be to realise the full potential of the single market.
mr president, i voted against this report on the evolution of eu macro-regional strategies, with particular reference to the mediterranean. not because i have any particular problem with the mediterranean and those countries working together if they should wish, but i fundamentally object to being required to make decisions based on an attempted evaluation where insufficient evidence is provided. i oppose the report’s suggestion that regions should be forced to use some of their structural funds to fund any macro-regional strategy. this should most definitely be a decision left to member states. if joint work between member states and joint funding is appropriate, then good. go ahead. but they should make that decision bilaterally.
mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal on a single european railway area. it seems to be quite apposite to consolidate existing directives on european rail policy while moving towards a necessary further liberalisation. current international services in europe are still often run by complex joint ventures formed for this purpose and requiring unnecessary expenses and delays. a free market in rail services will surely be a boon to the european traveller and haulier. a gradualist model of strengthening national independent rail regulators, with a view to the establishment of a pan-european regulator, is the right approach. i must also say, as a london mep, that my constituents are eager to see deutsche bahn run their ice 3 through the channel tunnel, ferrying passengers from london to cologne and frankfurt. they have been disappointed at the bureaucratic delay to this project. i am a great supporter of the rail sector and of new infrastructure building, such as the new high speed 2 set to be constructed in the uk. anything that can be done at european level to establish proper funding models and set high standards on issues like noise emissions is very welcome.
mr president, i voted against this report as i find the notion of a single european railway area a ridiculous, unnecessary and unwelcome intrusion into domestic affairs. there is no need for fritz the tank engine or for a single eu fat controller for our railways. it is true that international, rather than regional, agreements are valuable for air and maritime transport, as are single market measures for rail suppliers. but the united kingdom is a large island with only one rail connection with continental europe and it has no road connections at all. so for road and rail it does not work. i think this proposal does nothing but confuse priorities and drive up costs. in east anglia, my constituency, hard-pressed rail users do not stand on platforms demanding a single european railway area. they need better services, less crowding and reasonable ticket prices. this is a silly single rail area proposal and it should not be allowed. it should not leave the station.
mr president, it may outside the portals of this institution strike people as odd, given what is happening, that we are devoting all this time to discussing a single european railway area, but then again there is, i think, an appropriateness in this topic, both literally and figuratively; literally because it is precisely such harmonisation, such uniformity, such micromanagement that led europe to its present discontent, and figuratively because the train is the ultimate european metaphor. when the euro was launched we were forever being told that we would miss the train and that this was a terrible danger, and we can now see exactly where the train that we missed has ended up. it is hurtling out of control under its own momentum: bailout-and-borrow, bailout-and-borrow, bailout-and-borrow. as we look, we can see that there is still theoretically time to throw the switches. you could still deflect it on to a different course. you could allow an orderly dismantling of the eurozone and countries to export their way back into the market, but the terrible grisly truth is dawning on us is that there is no one in the engine. it is out of control and it is going to hit the buffers and, when it does, the shockwaves will be felt around the world.
mr president, i have to say, having listened to the previous colleagues, that this should have been a priority in the first place. we should have been looking at completing the single market rather than focusing on trying to complete a eurozone without actually getting it right in the first place. having one currency, 17 different spending decisions, and one set of interest rates was a project that was always going to get into trouble: it would either be derailed or actually hit the buffers. that is what we were going to find with that project. what we are finding with the single european railway area is a drive towards more competition, and this is what we want to see. we want to see more competition so that passengers benefit from this; they can have a choice of carrier. we should also encourage open-access carriers as much as possible, so that we do not see monopolies of carriers on the same piece of track. it is interesting when we look at this that we are asking for more competition in a single market. yet when it comes to the eurozone, we are saying no competition when it comes to currencies because if you have a market you have to have the same currency. we have to get the message right.
mr president, i voted against this report on recording equipment in road transport with particular reference to tachographs. i know how important tachographs are. i think we can all agree that they have road safety benefits and transport operators use them without complaint these days. new technology should of course be embraced, particularly when it is aimed at combating fraud. but i cannot agree with the suggestions in this report that extra expenses should be imposed on european transport operators by agreeing to mandatory introduction of new technology without a clear cost-benefit analysis, and by that i do not mean an analysis of people not complying. i mean an analysis of the results of people not complying, which seem to be significantly missing. i am particularly concerned about the extra cost to transport operators of the requirement to retrofit into vehicles new technology by 2020, which seems to be an unnecessary expense and one which will disadvantage many in the transport sector.
mr president, i voted against the proposal on recording equipment, namely tachographs, in road transport. i am concerned that this proposal violates the principle of national subsidarity. i am in broad agreement with the commission’s goals in formulating the policy generally, especially the attempt to reduce the administrative burden of manual checks, and indeed the safety principles on which previous directives and regulations are based. while in general i am unafraid of surveillance measures, this proposal raises serious privacy concerns that are surely best dealt with at national level. the prospect of a remote surveillance organ for the whole of the eu, accountable only to the eu institutions, is a step too far in my view. the commission’s assurances on data protection are also insufficient, and – as has been pointed out – fraud is an increasing problem. i appreciate that in the field of road transport, some european harmonisation is necessary. however, complete harmonisation goes far too far. another pressing concern is the requirement to retrofit vehicles by 2020. this will be very expensive and will be an additional burden on a road haulage industry already suffering in the current economic crisis.
mr president, when i speak to road hauliers in my own constituency, they tell me two things. firstly, the economic situation has left their business on edge and they are often working simply to cover costs. secondly, they are weighed down by levels of bureaucracy and red tape. many have genuine concerns for the viability and sustainability of their business. hauliers are responsible people and this parliament should treat them as such. yet some of what is suggested here seems to treat them with mistrust. the intrusive level of monitoring with the proposal for satellite tracking of vehicles is something i cannot agree with. i also oppose the merging of tachograph records and driving licences. furthermore, by seeking to bring more vehicles into the remit of these requirements, we would close small businesses, and therefore weight thresholds should not be altered. we ought to be working to ensure our haulage industry survives these difficult times, not to add to their costs and regulation just because we can.
mr president, i just want to explain why the alde group could not support this motion, despite the fact that we are very much in favour of the introduction of digital tachographs. we put forward a lot of amendments to reduce the burden on small businesses, including the one which mr deß has just referred to on increasing the exemption area. none of these amendments were passed. we also had some destructive amendments from elsewhere which actually made the burdens greater. therefore we were unable to support this motion as a whole. there were also some issues from the greens – which thankfully were rejected – which would have brought the weight down to 1.5 tonnes. this would have included all farmers’ pick-up trucks. thankfully that did not go through. overall, we are in favour of the digital tachograph but we need to make sure that it is not a great burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. therefore, we did not support this report.
mr president, i have always supported strengthening the enforcement of intellectual property rights, and i welcome this overdue commission proposal. my country, the uk, is particularly strong in this area. tolerating the siphoning off of the profits of european wealth creators and inventors defeats the logic of the single market. i hope that the measures proposed will go some way towards furthering the stalled eu 2020 strategy. in particular, i am pleased with the prospective new capacities for involved third parties, such as carriers, to receive compensation from lawbreakers. it is also necessary to increase the legal pressure on copyright violators. of course, i share the concerns of some members of this house with regard to generic medicines, but let us not forget the profit motive, on the basis of which most medical advancements are made in europe by our pharmaceutical companies. my group has previously expressed concerns that additional responsibilities placed on already strained national customs authorities should not be too onerous, so therefore i would hope that any forthcoming amendments will avoid encumbering them more than is necessary.
mr president, i consider the issue of intellectual property to be one of the most finely balanced that we have to deal with in this chamber. it is not as clear as left or right; free market or dirigiste; europhile or eurosceptic. in all of the areas which come under this broad heading – patenting, trademarking, copyrighting – you have to strike a balance between competition and the rights of creators, and between diversity and property. the more difficult it becomes to define what you mean by property, the harder it is to strike that balance. i would just say two things. first of all, i am very disappointed that, on the strength of what seems to have been simply a reaction in principle against what was seen as a concession to david cameron, we have withdrawn the vote that was scheduled to be held tomorrow on the european patent. secondly, in its current form i think that the acta proposal is, on balance, disproportionate and i intend to oppose it.
mr president, i welcome this report on the implementation of the water framework directive. the results of implementation across europe are of course varied. i am not one of those in this place who express dismay, disgust or even surprise at this. member states progress at different rates, in slightly different ways. that is the whole point of it being a directive, so if it were all uniform i would be most surprised. yes, water is a precious resource; yes, we need to make efficiency gains; yes, we should look at member states cooperating across their borders. there is all good stuff in this report, but let us keep it simple. let us not complicate the issue discussing shale gas and most particularly let us not complicate the issue with amendments on soil directives. as ever, a simple report on implementation was turned into a rambling wish list by members of the committee on the environment public health and food safety and for this reason i have had to abstain.
mr president, water policy is one of the areas in which eu coordination can be highly beneficial for our consumers if done properly. water security and environmental standards, e.g. the ‘polluter pays’ principle, key goals of the water framework directive, must be preserved and furthered, and this report unfortunately casts light on the slow progress of the directive. that many eu water bodies will not have achieved good status by 2015 is of course a disappointment and it is distressing to read that even the basic information on european water quality and quantity, which we evaluate our progress from, still remains poor. i welcome, however, the conclusion that the regional dimension must be addressed more closely and that water policy should be mainstreamed into all policy areas. i am in favour, however, of acting at international global level wherever possible, and the report notes correctly that there needs to be more focus on the international angle. europe is not an island and water scarcity in the rest of the world will inevitably cause problems for all of us in the future, not least with regard to conflicts, displaced persons and mass migration.
mr president, water is a precious commodity that we should not take for granted. therefore, it is essential that mechanisms are in place throughout each individual member state to safeguard this vital resource. i am pleased to report that in my own constituency of northern ireland, water quality standards are improving year on year. in 2011, standards at the tap were 99.8% compliant; with regard to waste water quality in 2010 our targets were exceeded, with 88.6% of works compliant with current regulations. i would also like to draw attention to the impact of eu water legislation on the agricultural sector in northern ireland, where concerns have been raised in relation to the soil framework directive. although farmers in northern ireland are very much in support of the need for action, in order to maintain their land in good condition ensuring long-term fertility and productivity, the challenges faced in protecting agricultural soils vary across europe. therefore, i believe that a harmonised approach is not the best way to safeguard resources. any further interference by europe will only result in increasing costs and red tape while reducing the productivity of the agricultural sector.
mr president, i think we all agree that water is an essential resource and i have heard a number of speakers say that today, but we have to remember that, despite what many on the left say, water is not free. the water that ends up in our home and in our workplaces is not free. the water that comes from the sky may be free, but it has to be collected, it has to be stored, filtered and pumped to homes, offices and other places. all that costs money. so it is essential that we have the right legislative framework in place to allow companies to do that, to provide us with clean running water, and to make sure that they can actually provide what we as consumers want at the end of the day. recently – well in fact a couple of years ago – we had a problem in my constituency of london with thames water not fixing enough of their broken and leaking pipes. when i challenged them about this and asked why they were not spending more resources on it, one of the reasons they gave – not the only reason, but one of the reasons they gave – was that they were spending too much time adhering to eu directives rather than actually fixing the problems they wanted to fix. an eu regulation like this can sometimes allow companies to take their eye off the ball and we have to ensure that they concentrate on providing clean running water to our constituents.
mr president, i voted in favour of this proposal. the ecall system builds substantially on the eu’s previous decision to establish the common emergency telephone number of 112 of which i remain a supporter. this is alongside the existing national systems, such as the 999 dialling in the uk. the implanting of emergency services’ telecommunications devices within the private motor vehicle has the potential to save thousands of lives by automatically relaying the information about accidents and their whereabouts. although i realise that a voluntary approach to implementing this has largely failed, i am still worried that moving to a mandatory approach may impose significant, although unknown, costs on the member states. i accept that this should not be a prime concern when human lives are at stake. i was however pleased at the committee stage that the ecr group was successful in guaranteeing a technology-neutral approach whereby private ecall systems can compete with a public ecall, as this is most in accordance with the principles of a single market and also competition.
mr president, we hear all too often about the tragic loss of life on our roads and quite rightly in the wake of these tragedies it is often asked whether anything could have been done to save that life which was lost. i have no doubt that the ecall system has a great deal of merit and has the potential to save many lives, and from this perspective i can, of course, support it. however, i do have concerns and would like to see this remain optional rather than mandatory. i believe that member states should focus their attention very much on the attempts to educate driver behaviour and so try to minimise road deaths in this way as well. it is a terrible scourge in my constituency – we have lost many young lives to deaths on our roads – but we must also look at the impact of speed, the impact of alcohol and drugs and of driver behaviour, as well as at these kinds of measures.
mr president, when my constituents discover that i am a member of the european parliament, they respond in many and varied ways. some of the things they say are not suitable for repetition in this chamber. but one thing that they have never said, in the 13 years that i have been doing this job, is that they want a common european number to dial in emergencies. once again, though, there seems to be a metaphorical aptness in what we are discussing. the emergency has been caused by precisely such harmonisation as this. if people were to dial their national emergency number – 999 in the case of the uk – they would at least find a responsive national mechanism on the other end that might do something about it. but if they dial a common number expecting the fire brigade, they will instead find the arsonists. europe is the problem and not the solution. the earlier we recognise that, the better for everybody.
in writing. − it is imperative that the eu does not seek to create a one-size-fits-all social policy. the uk does not want eu involvement on social matters. the idea of creating a new social mark in order to promote “social aspects” of the eu would only serve to make member states more attractive to illegal immigrants and allow people coming from poorer eu countries to move to the uk to take advantage of a more generous uk social security system.
in writing. − i voted for this consultation of the european economic and social committee on establishing a european social mark.
in writing. − this is a purely technical postponement of the expiry date of existing insurance legislation pending entry into force of a replacement solvency ii ‘quick fix’ directive in order to extend the deadline for the implementation of the new solvency ii regime which is still being debated almost 15 years later. however micromanagement of the insurance sector is an unwelcome power grab by brussels and renders the industry uncompetitive. in my opinion existant legislation should be removed, rather than extended while the council and commission debate further additions to its remit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this solvency ii ‘quick fix’ directive in order to extend the deadline for the implementation of the new solvency ii regime which we are still debating in trilogue. this is an extremely important piece of legislation that has been almost 15 years in the making, and we must get it right. the original solvency i regime comes to an end on 31 october 2012. therefore, in order to avoid a legislative vacuum, we have decided to extend the solvency i regime to 1 january 2014. the extension should allow parliament and the council sufficient time to reach a compromise that protects policy holders and strengthens our prudential regime, and also keeps our insurance industry globally competitive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment of directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii).
in writing. − changing the status of saint-barthélemy from that of an outermost region to that of a country and territory associated with the european union would make the 26th country and territory enter into a new reciprocal partnership with the european union and force saint-barthélemy to consolidate its relations with regional players, including the other overseas countries and territories, acp countries and outermost regions of the caribbean. the most significant motive for this decision is in order to channel more money to the french colony and grant brussels autonomous powers over a territory that currently is under french control.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal as i believe that this change in status satisfies the needs and special characteristics of the territory of saint-barthélemy without prejudicing the interests of the european union.
in writing. − this report recommends the change of status of saint-barthélemy from an outermost region to a territory associated with the european union. this means that saint-barthélemy will join the eleven british territories associated with the european union, including the falkland islands, south georgia and the sandwich islands. saint barthélemy, like the falkland islands and other british territories in the south atlantic, traces its ties with europe back to the seventeenth century. while not part of the eu, these territories are indivisibly linked to europe. this report is about providing support to the various territories associated with the eu. i certainly support the falkland islanders in the face of recent aggressive threats from argentina, and as we mark the twentieth anniversary of repelling an argentine invasion it is vital that we continue to defend the overseas countries and territories that have constitutional ties with our member states, including the falklands.
in writing. − the creation of new "macro-regions” to establish macro-regional identity equates to "social and financial engineering." it allows brussels to increase funding for regions who are unable to comply, or spend/invest responsibly and would include funding for maghreb countries, which are already benefiting from eu neighbourhood policy and the eu mediterranean association pact and who, in my opinion, should not become automatic recipients of eu funding derived from eu taxpayers during times of such financial difficulty. it enables the eu to spread its scope and power via handouts, not passed by the public. in the light of these proposals we are likely to expect an atlantic strategy, carpathian strategy, balkan strategy, and so on, representing a large cost to eu member states without prior consultation.
in writing. − i voted for this report. macro-regional strategies offer new prospects for territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. they can assist the broad eu strategies such as trans-european transport networks or the integrated maritime policy. they can ensure better coordination between regional programmes and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i support this report, which calls for the economic and environmental problems facing eu regions to be addressed through macro-regional strategies with multi-level governance. these strategies, involving local, regional and national authorities working together, can create new ways of using cohesion policy towards territorial cooperation projects. this can help work towards broad eu strategies such as trans-european transport networks or integrated maritime policy. it is vitally important that the economic needs of regions are addressed and i hope that these strategies, following on from successful strategies in the baltic sea and danube areas, can bring together territories to find solutions to the problems they face.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the second reading agreement on the recast of the first railway package as i was convinced that this recast will contribute to improving the functioning of the internal railway market. establishing a single european railway area has always been an ambitious goal of the european union, and remains a key instrument of the internal market and the reduction of c02 emissions while remaining an important challenge given the disparities between member states. establishing a single railway area requires in particular strong and independent national regulators to establish a level playing field between big and small railway companies but also a european regulatory body to ensure a more integrated regulatory oversight of international services. i hope that the european commission will soon come up with proposals on the fourth railway package that i hope will help us move forward in establishing this single european railway market.
in writing. − the proposed legislation fails to take into account real practicalities like variances in track size between member states. in the uk the high speed networks in st pancras and euston also would not match. it would also involve establishing unpopular eu controlled regulatory bodies to enforce the rules. the privatisation of railways in the uk caused many problems and users still suffer from higher prices while operators suffer from delays due to issues regarding track maintenance. this legislation in effect would put control of uk rail networks into the hands of brussels, making services even less accountable to users, despite brussels arguing that the opposite. whilst it is important that industry is aided by a strong transport network across europe, member states should have the freedom to control their own railway networks and work in cooperation with one another.
in writing. − i voted for this report and welcome the fact that parliament has insisted from the beginning on establishing a compulsory mechanism to reduce railway noise emissions caused by trains. noisy trains have negative effects on people’s health and therefore on their acceptance of rail transport and are ultimately harmful to the development of the sector. an effective noise reduction scheme should therefore be found.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it became apparent at an early stage that we needed to get agreement on the recast before we could get down to the real issue of the 4th railway package which the commission will come forward with later in the year. all through the passage of this report it has become very apparent that certain member states are more interested in protecting their own national railways and thus took a nationalistic view rather than thinking on a pan-european basis. the rapporteur and the shadows have done a good job in getting the message across that we expect regulators to be independent, and we expect infrastructure managers to be transparent in all their actions. this hard fought agreement with council is not perfect. but it does give us a sound basis for the next move in regard to railway policy; namely the 4th rail package. who knows one day we may see rail services crossing borders unhindered. every now and then miracles do happen.
in writing. − europe needs a high performance rail network. i support incentives to modernise trains and expand the rail network across the eu. rail currently lags behind other modes of transport and underinvestment in rail needs to be addressed if we are to meet important environmental and climate change goals. furthermore, i support the creation of an eu network of national regulators, which leaves the door open to the establishment of an eu rail regulator in the future. i also support calls to improve rail-related services and to provide financial incentives to encourage noise reduction by operators. finally, providing non-discriminatory access to various services and infrastructures, such as freight terminals should be promoted.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote of the report as i believed that the report as adopted did not strike a good balance between road safety and reducing administrative burdens on small and medium enterprises. lib dems are leading the fight to improve road safety across europe, but we also want to ensure that the rules for transport safety are proportionate and sensible. i particularly strongly opposed one amendment from the greens which would have forced all vehicles over 1.5 tonnes used for carrying goods to install digital tachographs. this amendment was happily defeated but an amendment from the s&d group succeeded in including vehicles over 2.8 tonnes rather than the current 3.5 tonnes in the regulation ; this will mean a potentially bigger administrative burden for many larger vans.
in writing. − a number of amendments have raised serious concerns inside the british freight industry. amendment 136 seeks to broaden the reach of the legislation by altering the weight threshold for vehicles subject to regulation, in some cases bringing it down to 1 and a half tonnes. this brings millions of vans into the remit without any recourse to an impact assessment. it would bankrupt small businesses up and down the uk reliant upon such vehicles that do not have the resources to accommodate such regulation. similarly amendment 134 alters the weight limit down to 2.8 tonnes. whilst companies in germany operate under such limits, the uk does not. it broadens the scope of the legislation enormously - again without adequate justification. many representatives of the uk freight and haulage industry strongly opposed plans to prevent operators carrying out their own tachograph calibration. it is right that this amendment be lifted and i hope that it stays out of future proposals. today’s proposals establish far reaching surveillance that goes beyond anything anticipated or justified. i fear that permitting these amendments could pave the way for brussels to roll out similar levels of monitoring and enforcement for other road users and in other industries.
in writing. − as ever increasing amounts of goods are transported by road it is important that regulations relating to the use of tachographs and the consequent data is updated. while i agree that europe's roads need to be safer and harmonisation is beneficial in this instance due to the cross border nature of the industry, this report goes too far. my main concerns relate to the lengths this regulation goes to regarding enforcement, remote communication and retrofitting. strengthening enforcement requirements should not undermine those member states which already have stringent methods in place. the same also goes for the mandatory use of remote equipment, which is already used in the uk; it should be up to individual member states to decide if this is a beneficial tool as their effectiveness is dependent upon the existing enforcement regime. although the technical details of remote access is not yet clear compulsory provision will cost hundreds of thousands of pounds, a cost which would be passed on to industry. i cannot and will not give my support to anything that could damage british industry at a time when we should be fostering economic growth.
in writing. − i voted for this report but agree with the rapporteur who regrets the fact that in the current regulation the standards and specifications are limited to the description of the vehicle unit as a black box recording driver activity data. the technical design of the downloading and interpretation tools is the responsibility of the member state. the tachograph is not supposed to evaluate whether there are infringements of the drivers’ hours regulation. it is only supposed to record data, not to interpret data. the main consequence of this fact is the large disparities among member states regarding the capacity and efficiency of enforcers’ instruments for roadside and company checks and the limitation of the tachograph to support, for the benefit of the driver, the application of the social legislation with interpreted data.
in writing. − the vagueness of the term “property” could allow these proposals to potentially incorporate an unprecedented range of items that would become subject to intrusive searches. it is essential to protect our personal rights and possessions. these proposals pave the way for acta, which was resolutely rejected by a large majority in this very parliament due to its encroachment upon civil liberties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creutzman report on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. the rapporteur worked constructively with all the shadow rapporteurs, including from the ecr group, and produced acceptable compromises which addressed many of our concerns. these included: the obligations of customs authorities when goods are suspected as copies or imitations; the circumstances in which goods can be destroyed; the importance of tackling counterfeit medicines; instances when compensation may be sought from an infringer; and the increased role of enhanced risk-management technologies in detecting counterfeit goods. we have struck the right balance in this report, prioritising the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in the face of calls from the socialist and green groups to water them down. we have also ensured that we respect national customs authorities and have avoided placing additional burdens on them, which is vitally important at this time of austerity and fiscal discipline.
in writing. − i voted for this report. intellectual property rights (ipr) are fundamental to innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. given the increase in ipr infringements and international trade in infringing goods, large parts of economic growth and jobs in the eu depend on the effective enforcement of ipr.
in writing. − this report was adopted by a large majority in the imco committee in february and it is a shame progress has not been made sooner with council. i welcome the rapporteur’s decision to vote now and i hope we will be able to reach a deal with the council soon on this important issue. my approach on this important report has been to further strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights in customs, against attempts by the s&d group and the greens/efa group to water it down. intellectual property rights are fundamental for innovation, jobs and growth in europe and it is of great importance that we ensure the correct mechanisms are in place. i tabled amendments stressing that national customs authorities have limited resources and that it was therefore important to ensure that no new additional burdens were placed on them. i also focused on improving efficiency by stressing the importance of using risk-management technologies in identifying infringements. i support the rapporteur’s view on including parallel trade in the scope, however i disagree with the approach of reversing the burden of proof to the holder or declarant concerning goods in transit. i am happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − while the provision of safe water is essential, too much focus has been placed on building new reservoirs and pipelines from new sources, thus disregarding existing networks which may see current water supplies degrade. the policy derives from the un’s global socialist position that the world’s water supply is a collective responsibility and poses it as a ‘human rights’ as opposed to a ‘civil rights’ issue. there are inherent dangers to forging an almost communist stance on the supply of such a vital commodity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu water report by mr seeber which examined the effectiveness of the water framework directive. the rate of implementation by some member states has been slow, and many eu water bodies will not achieve ‘good status’ by 2015. the report identifies many challenges and gaps in the existing legislation. specifically, emphasis should be put on the regional dimension; reliable data is needed, in particular on water quantity; water protection requires a holistic approach; major water efficiency gains can and should be made; and research and innovation should be further promoted this report should feed into the commission’s ‘blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources’ which will be published in november 2012. following publication of the blueprint we will hopefully be able to assess what steps are necessary in order to bring water quality within the european union up to an acceptable standard.
in writing. − i voted for this report. water is essential for life. managing it sustainably is vital to ensure that all ecosystems receive a sufficient quantity of good-quality water to function properly and provide essential services to food security and safety, to our health, and to our society and economy. water is arguably the most important of all public goods. however, europe’s and the world’s freshwater resources are at risk if we manage them beyond the boundaries of sustainability: urbanisation, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological alterations and climate change put ever-increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and secure water. future economic growth cannot be sustained unless it is decoupled from adverse environmental impacts on water.
in writing. − labour meps supported this report as it makes many important recommendations on meeting our target of ‘good’ water status for our rivers and lakes by 2015. however, we have reservations about the call for universal water metering, as this is a decision best left to individual member states, which are better able to assess the full impact of such a measure in terms of cost and impact on consumers. we believe that individual countries should be able to adopt anti-poverty measures such as social tariffs and similar schemes.
in writing. − i extend a cautious welcome to the call for the european commission to compel all new cars from 2015 to be fitted with the 'ecall' system, which automatically alerts emergency services to serious road crashes when airbags are deployed. the united states are currently leading in the deployment of telematics of this kind, with 50% of cars sold now fitted. in the eu most manufacturers do not include them therefore the mandatory introduction of ecall seems necessary for large scale deployment in europe. however the whole rescue chain has to be 'ecall ready' by 2015 from mobile phone systems to emergency control centres. on top of that, i strongly opposed extending the scope of ecall deployment to motorbikes, tractors and industrial vehicles. motorbikes do not have airbags and are almost always separated from their riders in an accident. as for tractors and industrial vehicles, the purpose of the vehicle is to bump into things, i do not see how it is possible to install ecall on these type of vehicles without triggering false alarms to emergency response teams. the alde group's efforts to remove these categories from the recommendation were not successful at this time but i will try to ensure that if any legislation follows, these vehicles will stay out of the scope. the alde group also asked for a rigorous cost-benefit analysis of ecall which we are still awaiting.
in writing. − while ecall could be a beneficial and welcomed demonstration of how smart technology can be used in vehicles to potentially save lives following an accident on any european road there are many flaws in this report that have still not been adequately addressed. this system should be voluntary, european citizens who purchase a car should be given the choice to pay for this technology to be fitted along with the optional extras which are already offered by vehicle manufacturers. a mandatory introduction would mean increased vehicle costs for citizens who may not want this device fitted. there is also an issue regarding the infrastructure and the high levels of investment needed to ensure full coverage across the eu. there are still huge signal black spots at cross border areas and areas with low population density where this system is promoted as being most needed. there have been no answers forthcoming regarding these costs. these points must be addressed before the commission considers bringing forward a legislative proposal on the introduction of ecall to new vehicles with a mandatory implementation date of january 2015.
in writing. − i voted for this report. in the event of a severe road accident, an ecall-equipped vehicle will automatically trigger an emergency call. even if the passengers cannot speak, ecall creates a voice link to the closest public safety answering point (psap) and sends an emergency message, known as the minimum set of data (msd), including key information about the accident, such as time, precise location, driving direction (resulting from accurate satellite-based data) and vehicle description. ecall can also be activated manually.
in writing. − i support calls for a free-of-charge emergency ecall system, which would alert rescue services to road crashes automatically. such a system could help save lives and reduce injuries after serious road accidents. an in-vehicle ecall system would automatically alert emergency services to the location of accidents, which will enable victims to be treated by professionals as quickly and efficiently as possible. i believe that this system should be made available to all motorists across the eu. if introduced, we could see 2 500 fewer deaths a year and the severity of injuries would also be reduced. i now hope that the commission will respond to calls from meps and come forward with some binding legislation on this issue.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which welcomes the ecb’s longer-term refinancing operations (ltro); calls on the ecb to further act in a decisive way in addressing the current euro area debt crisis by maintaining price stability while at the same time minimising negative spill-over effects on the real economy and the investments that the banking sector’s liquidity problems might generate; believes that the banking sector must take the necessary steps to address its structural weaknesses with regard to longer-term liquidity risks in order to restore investor confidence and therefore to avoid the need for the ecb to intervene so massively in future; considers that the bank’s operational framework should be shaped in such a way that a proportion of the grants would be made available for development purposes and to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − the ecr group has decided to abstain on this own-initiative report, despite many valuable points developed therein. we welcome the fact that the eu remains the largest regional destination for foreign direct investment (fdi), despite the slowdown in investment flows as a result of the lingering global crisis. investors appreciate the investment opportunities of the eu single market mainly due to its high-quality and diverse human capital, relatively predictable business environment and high potential in research and innovation. we concur with the rapporteur that more needs to be done to overcome the burden of high taxation and high public debt accumulation, which have resulted in a loss of eu competitiveness at global level such as to eliminate restrictions on the supply of venture capital funding in small and medium-sized enterprises. we also agree that promoting education, research and development and job creation in areas such as greenhouse gas emissions reduction, development of renewable energy sources and improvement of energy efficiency could contribute to attracting fdi in the eu. nevertheless, we object to the outright call for the implementation of a directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) in the eu as mentioned in paragraph 32 of the report.
in writing. − investment in europe, and in particular foreign direct investment, is hugely important to europe’s economy. this report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission to present a strategy to make investment in europe more attractive. cohesion policy investment is vital to this, as is creating a more robust european industrial policy. i fully support the report’s call for the greater use of innovative financial instruments and its emphasis on the need to facilitate workers’ and citizens’ mobility, which is vital to ensuring further investment in jobs.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which ‘is convinced that the economic integration of the eastern partners with the eu cannot be efficiently carried out without political and social reforms, participation of civil society in the decision-making process and economic integration among the eastern partners themselves; emphasises that economic integration among these countries should be open, so as to capitalise on its benefits; regrets in this regard that regional frozen conflicts have for many years harmed the effectiveness and development of cross-border trade and continue to cause enormous economic losses to some of the eastern partners and to lead to their economic isolation’.
rapporteur. − madam president, today my strong recommendation to this house is that we reject the acta treaty. at the outset of this debate though, let me make it clear that, unlike some, i do not criticise the commission for bringing forward this proposal. it is their role as the institution with the right of initiative to do so. but the role of parliament has been strengthened under the lisbon treaty and it is our job to scrutinise international agreements and to give them or deny them our consent. over the last three or four months i have carefully studied the text. i have spoken to the officials who have negotiated this agreement. i have spoken to the rights-holders that it seeks to protect, and i have engaged with civil society organisations who have serious concerns about this agreement. i personally have come to the conclusion that there are serious flaws and serious concerns about the way that this agreement could be misinterpreted and implemented. therefore, as rapporteur, i cannot recommend that the parliament gives it its approval. before, i have described myself as the accidental rapporteur. i genuinely came to this report with no agenda on acta and, if anything, i was probably regarded as having a pro-ipr agenda. i know of authors and musicians who are far from wealthy and who depend on the protection of their creations to make a living. as i have said before, creativity is the raw material of the european union. in september 2011, we were here debating the eu 2020 strategy and the future of trade policy. protecting european intellectual property is a key part of that. we cannot compete globally as a low-wage economy and we should not try. protecting our innovation and creative industries is vital for job creation and for economic recovery. but this is not a vote about the general importance of ipr. it is a vote on the text of the acta treaty. i have listened to civil society’s concerns on this agreement and, while some of the perceived threats of acta were perhaps exaggerated or unfounded, i am convinced that there are some key problems with the treaty. the first is a lack of clear definition of ‘commercial scale’. acta refers to ‘commercial activities for direct or indirect economic or commercial advantage’. but what exactly is ‘indirect commercial advantage’. what if one person copies a piece of music or a film and gives it to a friend, who gives it to another friend, and so on. is that ‘commercial scale’, or is that simple private usage? i know the commission will say that it is not ‘commercial scale’ because commercial scale is defined in european law. but ‘commercial scale’ is not defined in the acta treaty. it is also possible that acta could unintentionally criminalise individuals if we do not have a clear and precise definition of ‘commercial scale’. i also have related concerns to the sanctions contained in the acta treaty which appear sometimes to be excessive in terms of the civil and criminal penalties. the third major area of concern i have is the role of internet service providers (isps). provisions which might push isps to monitor online behaviour and report individuals for ipr infringement is very dangerous. it is not the role of isps to police the internet, and we should not be privatising law enforcement in this way. we have had many debates in this chamber on international agreements. i have often said that the devil is in the detail. this time the devil is in the lack of detail. rights-holders in the creative and manufacturing industries are voracious in pursuing their rights. often understandably so when you see the level of counterfeit and piracy they face. but this means that a vague text is dangerous. we cannot guarantee that civil liberties will be robustly protected by the acta treaty provisions. when it comes down to protecting intellectual property rights or protecting civil liberties, civil liberties should always be central to the concern of this house. the freedom of the internet is highly valued by our citizens and we interfere with that at our peril. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i think it is quite clear from the level of the debate that we have all received a lot of correspondence from a number of constituents. yet most of my correspondence has come from non-constituents from all round the world warning me of gloom and doom if acta were to be passed, and of the end of the internet. frankly, that is a load of rubbish and we should really focus on some of the concerns that we all had at the beginning. there were concerns right across the house on transparency; there were concerns on the issue of fundamental rights and civil rights for citizens and i think some of those issues would have been dealt with by the european court of justice. i think we also have to be quite clear that many of the laws about the internet which are worrying us actually come from national governments. the ‘three strikes and you are out’, for example, and some of the american proposals on the internet have nothing to do with acta. these are national governments that have brought in these measures but i think there is also an important distinction to be made. in his book ‘free’, chris anderson, the editor of ‘wired’, makes a distinction between the world of atoms and the world of bits. he says that in a world of increased processing power, increased bandwidth and increased storage the price of digital products tends towards zero and therefore he proposes new business models for digital products. the problem with that view is that people should be allowed to give away and share if they want but, at the same time, we should not prevent those who want to use intellectual property and make money out of intellectual property from being allowed to do so. we should allow both business models to be able to coexist. overall, my real concern about this is that many political groups wanted a referral to the ecj. we pushed the commission for a referral to the ecj but, when the commission actually goes ahead and listens to us and refers to the ecj, what do we do? we move the goal posts and we complain about a referral to the ecj and we ask for rejection. i actually think that is quite dishonourable and we will not be taken seriously if we continue to act in this way. i have to say, as someone who is concerned about european integration, that in some way i welcome the undermining of the ecj in this way because the ecj has been one of the greatest pushers for european integration. if you are going to set that precedent i thank you, but let us focus on the issue at hand. let us not move the goal posts when we have asked for a referral in the first place. the most honourable thing to have done would have been to wait for the referral to the ecj and wait for the ecj to rule. in fact the ecj’s ruling may even have given you ammunition against those who are against acta. i welcome any blue cards at this stage. bring it on.
mr president, the acta agreement is one i wish i could champion. i very much agree we need measures to counter piracy and protect intellectual property, which is vital to business, but i cannot support this acta. it is not acceptable in its current form. it is too catch-all. whilst the thrust of the agreement is worthy, the devil is in the detail. in the detail we find that internet service providers will be forced to spy on all their customers, chinese-state style, becoming legally responsible for pirated files. search engines could be closed for aiding and abetting. in this acta, we have what i call ‘pre-crime’, as in the movie minority report, where you can have your pccs on the mere suspicion of infringement. you have a loose definition of commercial scale, which could see many law-abiding citizens prosecuted for very low-key usage. you have customs officers able to go through your files at airports, and we have this unaccountable acta committee which has the power to make changes without referring back to this parliament or others. in conclusion, i support the aim but i do not support the detail of acta. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i have read it in english so i do understand it. i have taken the trouble to go through this and so have my researchers. i think honestly you have to judge it on the legal detail in that agreement. that is what i have made my decision on, not on a lot of e-mails i have received – we have all received those – but on the actual detail and what it says in that agreement. i do not think, unfortunately, that that is acceptable.
mr president, i have had literally hundreds, if not thousands, of e-mails from around the world on this subject, at least 99.9 % of them asked me to vote against it. i can assure these people, and especially my constituents in london, that i and my ukip colleagues will vote against acta. but one element of acta which particularly concerns me is the criminalisation of offences under article 23. of course genuine copyright and intellectual property right infringements must be prevented and owners’ rights protected, but the european union is creating its own comprehensive police state with provisions such as the european arrest warrant and the european investigation order. criminalisation opens up all kinds of sinister possibilities for suppressing free speech, dissent and alternative points of view. we only have to look at the case of julian assange to see where that can lead. all things considered, i urge my colleagues here to vote against acta.
mr president, this treaty has got much more to do with the possible criminalisation of innocent third parties such as isps, and disproportionate actions against small businesses and even private individuals, than it has with the protection of legitimate copyright interests. if acta were interpreted to impose responsibility on service providers they would introduce filters and monitors which would analyse data streams for offending content. we would then potentially have the machinery in place to do what china does to its internet access in that country: monitor and filter out unsuitable political content. the losses claimed to have been incurred by the entertainment industry are exaggerated enormously. it cannot be presumed that every person who illicitly gains access to copyright material would otherwise have paid for it. the obligation of isps to hand over personal data about alleged infringements of copyright would open the door to large corporations forcing people to pay unjustified demands for money to avoid crippling legal expenses.
rapporteur. − mr president, i think we have had a very good debate both here inside the chamber and a parallel debate taking place on twitter, which has been very highly informed. i think there has been one misunderstanding in the debate, which is the role of the commission here. i think people, particularly outside this house, have to understand that the commission not only has the right, but has the duty to defend its proposal and has a duty to advocate its proposal, and that with the way the institutional triangle works it is then up to parliament and the council to accept or reject the commission’s position, and that is where we are now. the one thing that is worrying me about this debate is the presumption on some benches that if you listen to ordinary citizens, you are being populist. but if you give in to the big commercial lobbies, you are being responsive. that is not a distinction that i can accept. there are two demographics that i have found who have been opposed. there has been general opposition to acta, but two demographics in particular have expressed concern about acta. the under-25s who regard the internet as a zone of freedom and an open area for expression, and i do not think acta has successfully reflected their concerns. interestingly, the other demographic has been people from central and eastern europe who know what it is to have their freedoms curtailed and have expressed great concern about the way acta might be implemented. so i understand where the people have come from on this issue and i think we are absolutely right as a parliament to respond to that. i also take from this debate though, both on the internet and in this room, that there is no one who really opposes the idea that rights-holders should get a decent reward for their efforts. what they object to is, perhaps, overreaching the proper definition of reward and curtailing freedom in providing that reward. what we have to strive for now, both as a commission and as a parliament, is the balance between ensuring that rights-holders do get a return for their investment, for their effort, whilst maintaining internet freedom. that is the challenge we all face in the weeks and months ahead. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the european economy faces challenges like never before, and it will principally be our ability to keep pace with the rest of the world that will determine the future for the european peoples. the budget will be the key to that future, and our most pressing priority ought to be improving competitiveness to support economic growth based on a fully functioning single market and greater value for money spent at european level. that means investing in research and development, investing in border infrastructure and investing in broadband connectivity – all things which will help people in their daily lives and in the future. but it also means that, in a strictly limited budget, we should only be spending where we can see clear value for money and relevance to the challenges of the day. this is the time when we ought to be looking again at the traditional spending areas. it is a time when we ought to be asking the difficult questions. for example: has past investment in structural funding projects really brought the benefits that were intended? will the reform proposals for the common agricultural policy really deliver measurable environmental benefits, and at what price to the european taxpayer? against the backdrop of the current economic challenges, this budget is missing the opportunity to seek out those new approaches. instead, the solution is more of the same: the same policies, but more money spent. this house would be mistaken if it was to presume that it could go on increasing spending at a time when the people of europe are experiencing cutbacks and austerity. we should be leading by example, and that means freezing the size of the budget.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, here we go again. in the worst financial crisis in living memory, this house comes up with more unrealistic and irresponsible demands. it simply beggars belief that a majority here can even dare to ask for a 6.8% increase. the idea that genuine growth and employment can be delivered by the eu budget is simply ridiculous. hundreds of billions have been spent to date that have added up to precisely nothing in terms of growth. many believe, as i do, that the eu and its policies are, to a large extent, responsible for this crisis. the commission in particular has failed to control the use of eu funding entrusted to it by the taxpayers, while targeting the funds towards supporting its own heavy regulation and the eu project as a whole. now this house wants to reward this failure with an increase. if you are listening, mr cameron, i have a straight-talking message for you: continue to send money to brussels and you are effectively transferring power to an unelected, irresponsible and hugely wasteful bureaucracy. for goodness sake, give the british people a break and cut our contribution to the eu budget. i am calling for a reduction, not for a freeze.
madam president, i would also like to thank mr la via for his excellent report. i speak as the rapporteur for the other sections’ budget under heading 5. first of all, i will say just a few words on parliament’s own budget. colleagues will recall the letter from the commissioner urging all institutions to keep their increase next year to below 1.9 %. colleagues will also recall that in our estimates we said we would aim for an increase of 1.9 % for the moment. i say ‘for the moment’ because what we have done as a parliament is to put in place a working group to look at making savings in parliament’s budget. currently the working group is looking at such things as travel costs for members and for staff on missions, and we are looking at a comparable study with other member states and the us congress as well. by september of this year i think we will be able to recommend some savings in parliament’s budget and by the end of the year we will have a full report available as well. i also want to say a few words on the budgets of other institutions. the commission originally proposed an increase in their budget of 3.2 %. i understand that the council will be proposing an increase of around 1.8 %, which is of course very close to the 1.9 % originally suggested by the commissioner. i think we need to look at all the institutions individually, however. we know, for example, that the court of justice and the external action service are already saying that they will need a much bigger increase. but i think that, in general, we should go for an increase of around 1.9 %, if not lower. then we can say – and the other institutions can say – that as a parliament we have had a cut in real terms in the administrative budget of our institutions. i think that would be a good thing for this parliament and for the other institutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group believes, with regard to the eu-israel acaa, that the concerns raised in the joint oral question from the committee on international trade and the committee on foreign affairs are unfounded and confused, as this agreement is not about the territorial provenance of pharmaceutical products, but the right for competent israeli authorities to certify medicines that they examine as being up to eu standards. there are already separate stringent eu-wide rules about goods arriving from the west bank and gaza and what eu tariffs should apply to them. acaa is a purely technical agreement and has become a highly politicised one as part of an israel-bashing exercise which does nothing to facilitate access to high-quality and affordable pharmaceutical products for our european consumers. the acaa has been delayed far too long in this parliament and the committee on international trade should move swiftly to a vote on the agreement, thus facilitating a decision on parliament’s assent at a future plenary vote, which should likewise take place without any further delay. i strongly believe in upgrading eu-israel trade relations under the association agreement.
mr president, i could not disagree more with christopher fjellner on this subject. it may be a technical upgrade of the relationship with israel but there is no doubt there is a highly politicised move at this time. adopting the caa is entirely out of sync with the eu’s ambition for policy coherence between trade, human rights, development and foreign policy. tomorrow, we will vote on a resolution on eu policy in the west bank and jerusalem. let us be coherent about how we tackle the suffering in the occupied territories and the increased trade benefits we give to israel. we cannot turn a blind eye to the serious escalating human rights violations when we upgrade a trade agreement. more trade and easier trade should never be at the expense of upholding our commitments to human rights. the collective punishment of gaza is unacceptable and until serious steps are taken by israel to comply with international law, i strongly oppose this upgrade. i hope that the commission is able to give detailed answers on how the caa would function in practice and how we would ensure that products manufactured in the settlements do not fall under the scope of the protocol. i disagree with christopher’s analysis that this is never going to happen. this clarification would help with the caa but at the moment, even with that clarification, i strongly believe it would be wrong in terms of policy coherence to upgrade our relationship with israel and i will continue to oppose the caa until the situation between israel and the palestinians improves.
mr president, it seems that every aspect of trade relations with israel is used by some as an opportunity directly or indirectly to attack the state of israel. how much better to recognise that here is a country of nearly eight million people with a standard of living higher than many eu member states. it has turned desert into productive agricultural land, led the way on desalination technologies, and is home to a phenomenal number of start-up companies and a vibrant democracy. what a contrast to those around. how much the palestinians could learn and benefit from this if they were given the opportunity by their own leaders, if they recognised the right of israel to exist, ended terrorism and hostility and moved forward in a positive spirit with negotiation of a two-state solution. those seeking to pick holes in the eu-israel caa protocol should ask themselves a simple question: do we want to bring about peace and prosperity for palestinians or do we wish to condemn another generation to a life of poverty, hardship and insecurity? on the specific matter in hand, eu policy is clear, namely that occupied territory products cannot benefit from preferential treatment under the technical arrangement and the eu-israel association agreement. however, as the commission itself has said, cases of abuse are neither numerous nor significant. there is no case for changing the technical arrangements and the acaa protocol should be supported unhindered.
mr president, i also thank commissioner de gucht for his very clear answers, though they only confirmed what we already knew. it is time to get on and vote on this agreement. two years of discussion in committee has been a delaying tactic. as commissioner de gucht said, the objective of the acaa is to eliminate barriers to trade by reducing costs and delays. i am rather astonished that many on the committee on international trade want to constrain trade and keep up costs. you are doing consumers and patients no favours on choice and price of medicines. i hope that, if there are palestinian pharmaceutical products, they will also benefit from easier export to the eu under this protocol. on the question of trade and human rights, i have no hesitation whatsoever in criticising settlements or administrative detention by israel or the many human rights breaches by the two palestinian administrations. trade is not at the expense of human rights. i have to say, as vice-chair of the us delegation, that has never stopped me criticising human rights problems like rendition in guantánamo in the united states and it will not stop me on israel either.
blue-card answer to christofer fjellner. – mr president, very simply, the palestinians are not holding israeli children in jails, the israelis are holding palestinian children in jails against international law. the israelis are conducting a blockade on gaza, which is wholly against international law, they impose collective punishment of citizens, and i could go on. israel is completely out of sync with international law. contrary to what colleagues have been saying today, it is not the greatest democracy in the middle east. it is not a democracy, because certain people who reside within the israeli borders are not entitled to vote in that country.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report with recommendations to the commission by jürgen klute, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on access to basic banking services (2012/2055(ini)) (a7-0197/2012). before we start, can i make the point that we are running 30 minutes late. i would hope that people keep to time to allow the interpreters and other staff to get something to eat before we resume at 9 p.m. it is after all their human right.
mr president, i agree that consumers need access to basic bank accounts in all member states, but i do not think that requiring all europe’s commercial retail banks to provide such centrally-defined accounts is necessarily in the best interests of all consumers. let me explain. in wales there is currently a strong network of credit unions that provide basic banking services to the most disadvantaged group of people in society. they go far beyond simply providing people with bank accounts. they also provide advice and help to those people who have difficulty managing their basic finances. they help those who cannot afford to pay for help to understand financial services and provide a personal relationship manager that the large retail banks will never be in a position to provide; this certainly will not be a commercially-viable proposition. access to bank accounts for everybody is likely to put the business of these credit unions in jeopardy and force them out, so that, while people will end up with a bank account, they will lose all the added value that they are getting from these local institutions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 4 july 2012). written statements (rule 149)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for all his work and the progress that he has made in relation to the direct payments issue for 2013. whilst it is important to make provision for the payments in 2013, it is also important to make provision in the amendment for the rural development spend. for us in the uk that has also been very important. it is also very significant for us that there are payment commitments for less favoured areas and for the agri-environment schemes that are so important. also very important is that the transition for these payments must be smooth, and limited in its impact on farmers’ incomes, especially in the light of the ongoing volatility within world markets. therefore i believe that we can be pleased with the progress to date and the constructive outcomes. the current reform of the common agriculture policy post-2013 must also recognise the importance of direct payments and support through pillar 2 for those actively farming to produce traceable, wholesome food and promote food security within europe. i believe that pillar 1 payments should remain as direct support to recognise the extra lengths that farmers go to in producing food. pillar 2 is best placed to deliver tailored outcomes in rural development and in the environment. i also believe it is important that we must be very strong in achieving a credible budget settlement in the mff and, most importantly, we must correct the imbalances in rural development allocations; this is especially important for countries like the united kingdom, which traditionally has a very poor allocation. that historical imbalance now needs to be sorted out.
mr president, i will be no exception in congratulating our prolific and energetic-as-ever rapporteur, luis, for a solid piece of work this evening. it is amazing that he has managed to find time to fit it in, with everything else he has been undertaking. this is a bit of solid work on the part of parliament and the commission in terms of giving some welcome clarity going forward for our farmers that rural development programmes and lfa direct payments will continue in the bridging period into the next cap. there is not a great degree of controversy around the chamber tonight. you might wonder why we are devoting parliamentary time to this at all. however, let us not forget that this is controversial in certain circumstances and certain circles. there are member states which want to cut direct payments to farmers. however, from a scottish perspective, direct payments are of crucial support to farm incomes and we very much want to see them continue. i am very pleased that the scottish government has been so constructive and so in the mainstream of european thinking. it is rather unfortunate that our present member state has been rather less constructive in its negotiations, not least over the general nature of the budget. however, commissioner, i can assure you that you do have some allies in the british isles. i look forward to working with you for the betterment of europe’s agriculture.
mr president, i am sorry i will not be continuing the obsequious tone. i particularly welcome the support of the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the anticipated support more widely in plenary for the amendments on voluntary modulation. this mechanism is necessary to address the issue of the uk being at the end of the queue when pillar 2 funds were distributed at the beginning of this cap period. despite this very poor settlement, it is widely acknowledged that the uk has delivered strong agri-environment schemes via its singular use of the voluntary modulation mechanism. although not initially or particularly popular with farmers and not necessarily the way we may wish to move forward in the new direct payment framework, it is vital to secure stability for the period 2013 to 2014. therefore, i would like to say thank you to mr capoulas santos once more for his pragmatic approach. i look forward to continue working with him on cap going forward.
mr president, many of my constituents have contacted me regarding being disadvantaged by an uneven playing field in the direct payments and cap in general. direct payments or direct subsidies to farmers account for three quarters of the cap budget, which of course is 48% of the eu budget, so it is quite a considerable amount of money. however, the conservative-led british government is reluctant to make use of some of those discretionary funds that are available to support our farmers. in fact they are increasing the uneven playing field by wishing to voluntarily reduce direct payments faster than any other member states, which is why i will be voting against amendments 1 to 12 and 13. the struggles of uk farmers are compounded by the commission’s ongoing use of the historical distribution key to allocate pillar 2 funds between member states. this discrimination against the uk primarily needs to stop. we need a fairer allocation of pillar 2 farmers and to protect our farmers in the uk.
mr president, there was some concern, both in london and holyrood, when the commissioner published the legislative proposals which missed out the inclusion of the voluntary modulation powers. clearly, both in england and in scotland, without the ability to top-slice single farm payments and switch the money into rural development, the rural development programmes, both in england and scotland, would have huge financial black holes in them for the year 2013. thankfully, as a result of the strong lobbying of the commission by both the uk and scottish governments, and with the assistance of my colleagues here in parliament – luis capoulas santos, paolo de castro, jim nicholson, etc. – we have managed to insert them back into the package. that will give some reassurance that both the united kingdom and scottish governments now have the power to decide whether they want to top-slice farmers’ single farm payments and switch the money in order to plug that financial black hole in the rural development programmes in 2013. i would like to thank luis and paolo for their cooperation. i wish you well, luis. i hope the next two legislative packages go as smoothly and as speedily as this one has, but i somehow have my doubts.
mr president, my constituency in wales depends heavily on the rural economy; farming in particular is a vital contributor to the welsh economy. given the extent of less-favoured area farming however, welsh farmers are disproportionately reliant on direct payments. without these payments many farming families would probably leave the business altogether. i therefore welcome the move to allow these direct farm payments to continue on a historic basis for the coming year until the new cap is in place. i would, however, make a plea that transitional arrangements under any new agreement should be flexible and open to regional interpretation as our farmers adapt to the new rules. i look forward to welcoming the commissioner himself to this year’s royal welsh show, where the farmers can put their case to him directly.
mr president, can i also add my thanks to the rapporteur and say to luis, as someone else has also said, enjoy the bouquets we are throwing at you tonight because we may not be as generous in the weeks and the months to come; but enjoy them tonight. it was very important that we were able to get this situation covered because it would certainly have been quite a disaster otherwise. i think it is good that parliament was able to exercise its right and ensure that we were able to cover what was overlooked in the past. while i am certainly no fan of modulation and i have always opposed it, this was very necessary to guarantee funding for rural development measures and commitments, certainly in the united kingdom. can i add my words and say how deeply dissatisfied we are with the pillar 2 amount that is awarded to us, because it is restricting us in carrying out real good projects and works, and i hope the cap reform and the multiannual financial framework negotiations with the uk will receive a fair share. this was very much good work. well done and thank you, luis.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, along with my colleague paolo de castro and others, i have had the misfortune to have been involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission on the horizontal file for over 18 months and under three different presidencies of the council, and to date we have little progress to show for all the effort that we have put in. at the heart of the problem is the council’s view that every decision on secondary legislation should be made through implementing acts rather than delegated acts. i must remind the council, although there is no one representing them here tonight to hear this debate, that implementing acts should be used solely for the purpose of the uniform application of non-essential elements of policies across the eu. however, the council’s position seems to be that parliament should have no say whatever over what the commission does in secondary legislation. the council’s position seems to be that we have no say; they have no recognition that lisbon has changed the game, that power must now be shared and that it is not business as usual. the commission proudly claims that it is the guarantors of the treaties, yet time after time in the negotiations on alignment the commission ends up siding with the council and denying parliament its rights under codecision. the commission should be sticking up for the rights of parliament and defending the correct interpretation of the lisbon treaty provisions. commissioner, tonight i hear what you say about being sympathetic to our cause, but that is not borne out by our experience in the negotiations so far. tonight i think it is crystal clear from this debate that this parliament will fight tooth and nail during the cap negotiations to protect our powers under lisbon, even if that means holding the final agreement on cap reform to ransom until the council and the commission agree to a sensible compromise on this key issue of recognising this parliament’s role in co-legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while the issue of alignment of the lisbon treaty is perhaps not the most riveting issue going through the committee at the moment, especially considering our work on the cap reform, it is nonetheless very important. i commend the work of the rapporteurs who have worked on these dossiers. it is quite clearly extremely complex and a subject with legal difficulties. i think we recognise that. although we have not been able to reach agreement, the issue must be dealt with in the cap reform. the vote tomorrow will provide a clear position for the parliament side. we have to recognise that there is clearly a growing void between the commission and parliament. granting powers to the european parliament is one of the aspects of the lisbon treaty which i totally support. in terms of delegated acts, i am in favour of parliament being given more control and influence, because this takes that control into the hands of parliament and elected representatives. however, i urge parliament to use these powers, and i have no doubt it will. especially under the leadership of the current chairman of the committee on agriculture, we would use those powers wisely and at least it would be more democratic.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the term ‘implementing act’ is enough to send the layman fast asleep. if i shouted out ‘commission power grab’ he might wake up. the lisbon treaty was another remorseless shift in the removal of democracy; it is little surprise to me that the commission is pushing things to the limit and it is clear why the eu was so desperate to avoid referendums on this subject. here tonight we are completing the tidying-up exercise of taking a handful of issues that were still being discussed under the old pre-lisbon regime. one of these is organic farming. this must be one of the most pampered industries in the entire world. there are generous grants to convert into it; organic farmers have exclusive access to generously paying environmental schemes; and they are, i understand, exempt from the inconvenience of the greening measures that other farmers must endure. despite this, the end product is still more expensive to the consumer. today is 3 july, and a feed compounder in britain today is having to pay gbp 200 to have a tonne of wheat delivered to his mill. this fact alone should concentrate the minds of political leaders into removing obstructions for real farmers, rather than playing around with implementing acts and organic farming.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would say this to president christofias: your country cannot lead the european union by size or strength, so you must lead by example. lead by example on economic growth: use the eu’s influence to help reunify cyprus’s people – economists say it would add eur 12 000 to the prosperity of every family on your island. lead by example in europe’s fight against crime – intervene against the intricate intrigue of corrupt cypriot lawyers and property developers who rob holiday-home buyers of their retirement savings. lead by example in other areas too, not by letting a fossil fuel find fool you into forgetting your island’s natural wealth of sun and wind. not by being mortgaged to moscow, nor by evading engagement with ankara. you will take forward the budget talks and the eu’s road map 2050: marry them together by investing in renewable energy eu-wide and cutting our dependence on russian gas. you will oversee eu talks on bank supervision and sovereign debt: use the ecb and the eib to nurse our weaker nations back to solvency. you spoke of a better europe for our children and our grandchildren. you must talk to turkey, not overlook the plight of our fellow citizens behind the barbed wire. along with my constituents in gibraltar they face the fate of being forgotten people, failed by the designated guardians of the eu treaties who are too timid to take on the tough talkers. forty years ago another mediterranean islander, the songwriter/poet, georges moustaki, wrote of ‘les îles barbelés, les murs qui emprisonnent…en méditerranée’ (the barbed-wire islands, the imprisoning walls… in the mediterranean). we will not carp if you cannot bring peace or freedom to syria and the countries of your sea’s southern shore, much as you should try, but you can rid your island of its barbed wire and its prison walls and restore what that poet called ‘un bel été, qui ne craint pas l’automne’ (a fair summer that has no fear of autumn). (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr kasoulides, i am not one who defends everything that was done under colonialism by my country but i do not believe my country can be accused of causing the problems on the island of cyprus. i am not criticising cyprus. i am asking the presidency to use the eu’s influence to sort out some of the serious problems you still face on your island and i hope it will. i think there is a lot to be done and i wish president christofias every success in this regard.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me first of all thank president christofias for his speech today and for the welcome that he gave to my group when we recently visited cyprus. we greatly appreciated the constructive meetings that we had with him and his government. it is clear that we are not going to have much in common politically, but nevertheless we did appreciate his courtesy and his hospitality. we also agree with the implication in the presidency’s priorities that the eu is not seen as relevant by many of its citizens, and that it needs to become more effective and more efficient. the position of my group is clear: we do not want to see the eu fail, but if it continues to pursue the agenda of the past then it most surely will. let me say a word to president barroso. i was particularly surprised by his outburst yesterday here in this chamber. to suggest that somehow we take great delight in the problems facing the euro is, frankly, absurd. do you honestly believe that we are pleased to see so many people suffer as a result of your political project? i have merely many times set out the options for the eurozone as i see them: either an effective fiscal union or a reduction in the size of the eurozone. at the moment you are trying to move towards a political union without the fiscal union that is really required, and i think that it is entirely reasonable that we should raise the alarm about what this will mean for national democracy in many member states. whether or not the euro survives, what is important for me is that those countries that had the good sense to stay out of it are not hampered by the decision of 17 to go ahead with more integration, if indeed that is what they choose to do. but of course, the one tool that must always remain the equal property of the 27 countries is the single market. it is the one thing that we all support, and i was therefore delighted see that the cyprus presidency has said that one of its ambitions is the deepening of that internal market. you will have our full support in that aim. the presidency will also conclude negotiations on the capital requirements directive. yesterday, as part of his criticisms, president barroso pointed out – correctly – the uk’s significant bank bailout commitments made under our previous, socialist, government. i agree with him that we should ensure that banks are sufficiently capitalised to present this from ever happening again. so why, then, is the commission still trying to water down the commitments the eu made in basel to implement the capital requirements directive? mr barroso, my group, and indeed the uk government, is in favour of more stringent bank regulation than your commission. we want to make sure that taxpayers never again have to bail out the banks. turning very briefly to the multiannual financial framework, it still continues to baffle me how the commission can enforce austerity on member states and simultaneously demand more money from them for the eu budget. it seems that everyone has to cut spending, apart from the european commission. the idea that throwing money at economic problems and hoping it will make them go away is surely a doctrine that was discredited in the 1970s. if the presidency can truly deliver a budget that genuinely focuses on quality and added value, and on better spending rather than on more spending, you will indeed have our full support.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying kalimera, president christofias. it was a delight to meet you when i came to nicosia in 2009. can i pay tribute to your efforts to solve the cyprus problem; a problem which is way overdue. the ongoing insult given to you by the turkish government of not recognising you as the president of cyprus is something which should be highlighted in this chamber. i would call on you and the eu to remove the candidate status of turkey, because they have shown themselves not able to communicate with the european community. you talk about this as being a bastion of democracy. however, you were educated in russia and you would have seen how the duma was no more a bastion of democracy than this place is in relation to the politburo, which is probably likened to the commission led by mr barroso, who uses this place as a veil of democracy for its actions. you are right to highlight that the problem of your presidency is the plight of workers. in athens you will find graffiti that says: let us refuse to live as slaves. your background and your ideology as a communist will make this very difficult for you. how are you going to protect the workers or stand up for the workers with the austerity that angela merkel and the rest of the european union is pushing forward? surely you would agree with me that eu 2020 lacks 20/20 vision? i have no doubt it will be as successful as the lisbon strategy, which was meant to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. you said in an interview on television last night not to expect a mountain from cyprus. well, the eu is the everest of all … (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question to ioannis kasoulides. – mr president, i wish to ask the gentleman why he thought the attack on the united kingdom was warranted. let me remind him that my country has backed up eur 10 billion in imf guarantees to his country. our forces are stationed on cyprus, at costs of tens of millions of pounds every year, to safeguard cyprus. if it was not for british forces i think that turkey would have gone a long way further in 1974. but has this place moved on? i thought this place was about the future. what about the austro-hungarian empire? what about italian colonialism? what about french colonialism? what about portuguese colonialism? what about german expansion? are you moving on or do you want to be part of the past?
mr president, i would like to raise just one specific point with the president of the council. essential to proposals to reform the common fisheries policy is the establishment of long-term management plans, giving every fishery clear objectives for the recovery of fish stocks. three of these have already been approved by parliament but they are frozen by the council. the council has refused to take them further. the council and parliament disagree over the interpretation of the treaty, and there are fair arguments on both sides. these can only be resolved through negotiations, but negotiations are not taking place and the current impasse puts at risk all that we are trying to achieve through the reform of the common fisheries policy. i know that our president, martin schulz, has already raised this. i ask you now, mr president of the council, to take this opportunity to give us an undertaking to lift the freeze and to start the negotiations between the council and parliament. i do not ask the cyprus presidency to find a solution to the problem. i just ask you to start the negotiations which can achieve that solution.
mr president, talking about growth and employment will not be enough to secure them. the single greatest cause of unemployment in southern europe is the euro. it is overvalued for them and, rather than being helped to stay in it, they need to be rescued from it. globalism and trade agreements with emergent economies are destroying our manufacturing basis and throwing european workers out of their jobs. the new presidency refers to demographic change in the form of ageing populations and mentions the necessary responses to that phenomenon. i wonder what those might be. well, you have got it: a forward-looking and comprehensive immigration policy and better integration of third country nationals of different cultural and ethnic backgrounds. so the third world young will be replacement europeans for unborn european babies, except that they will not. they will bring the third world with them and transform parts of europe into the third world. distinctive peoples are not the product of distinctive cultures. distinctive cultures are the product of distinctive peoples.
blue-card question. – i am sure you agree with me that it is extremely important that the commission gives clear statements to this house. so just on the comments that president barroso made yesterday about the gbp 64 billion of british taxpayers’ money paid by the socialist government at the time into british banks, may i remind you that gbp 30 billion of that – i.e. nearly half of it – went on bailing out irish and dutch banks – money from the british taxpayer – and that the uk actually intends to implement the global agreements on bank reform, but the commission’s proposals dumb those down, especially for french and german banks. furthermore, the uk plans even stronger protection for taxpayers, splitting retail and investment banks, but the commission’s proposals would make that almost impossible. does he agree with me that we need to make strong bank reform a priority of the upcoming presidency?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is a rich programme for 2013 and it is suitable for the last full year of this legislative mandate. the commission has reached cruising speed, and we even have passion. the applause for mr barroso yesterday was clearly genuine and appropriate, and it confounds the critics who consistently accuse the commission of being non-elected technocrats. liberals believe that a strong commission is always a political commission. of course there can be improvements, across the board, in its functions. there are several functions and sometimes some are disguised too much. first the commission is the public face of europe. secondly it is the administration, which must be tight and efficient and rigorous in putting into effect union law. thirdly it ought to be the intellectual powerhouse, the think tank for the union. it should also search out and articulate the common interest of the states and citizens, thereby exploiting to the full its right of legislative and political initiative, especially now as a counterparty to the european council. the commission is at its weakest when it becomes defensive, when it becomes complicit in closeted deals between one, two or three prime ministers. it is strongest when it sticks to the general interest, so we welcome the unprecedented paper of the four presidents that proposes the blueprint and road map to banking, fiscal and political union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think it is indispensable that this work programme is seen as the commission giving leadership in the whole area of growth policies. that is what we put out in our resolution. i am delighted to hear what józsef szájer said because i think he is very much in support of that. indeed i am disappointed, because i think we were close to getting agreement on a resolution that focused on the growth policies. but i agree with józsef szájer that part of the problem with the way that the work programme is presented – and i say this to the commissioner – is that it does not actually give us a clear focus on the growth policies and on the targets. the commission has been highly responsive to what my committee in the european parliament has asked for in giving priority to the completion of the single market. the single market act is actually the growth programme for next year – i notice it was not mentioned in your speech, but we have the targets there, we have the holistic policies that ms turunen was asking for, and so what we want from you, commissioner, is a much clearer lead on the growth policies. if you look at the council statement – because clearly the single market will not be delivered simply by the commission’s policies but by implementation in the member states – what we need to see in the 2013 programme is a framework where member states can sign up and show clear commitments to delivering on their single market commitments. it is now in the council statement that the commission will monitor performance, and we will have an annual report in the framework of the semester. that is a new initiative that has to come forward as a result of the work programme, but the other thing i also want to emphasise – and again i am in agreement with what mr szájer said – is that the commission is on the hook for a reduction in the regulatory burden, and member states are as well. it is a shared agenda. it says here that you are going to present us with a communication at the end of this year about further steps in smart regulation, but what we want to see is some delivery of those in 2013. moreover we need to have a complete look at the way that we are pushing policy through, to have more pre-legislative work done in this parliament, more analysis, better impact assessments – those are the things we expect to see in your growth agenda. in conclusion, the lead issue we want to see emerging from this is delivery of jobs and growth by completing what we have on the table. as józsef szájer said, the growth is going to come from small enterprises in the service sector. we have the services directive. you, we and the member states, working together, as our socialist colleague said, have to deliver those jobs and that growth.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, liam mellows said of another treaty that it had passed not because of the will of the people, but because of the fear of the people. engendering fear seems to be the response of the eu’s institutions to the ever-growing resistance – expressed in votes and in protests – to the failed policies of austerity. the commission’s work programme therefore needs to come up with a radically new approach, putting people’s needs before profits and recognising that austerity measures are particularly detrimental to women and children. the programme needs to foster public investment in growth and jobs. it needs to support smes and adapt to the particular needs of each member state, and this must be the basis of any credible crisis resolution strategy. time restricts what i am able to propose, but let me say that we need a well funded, flexible cap; we need a new peace iv programme; we need to reject the microeconomic conditionality for access to cohesion policy and regional development funds; we need a binding youth guarantee for decent jobs and training; an eu road map on equality for lgbt persons; a comprehensive eu strategy on violence against women; and the implementation of the barcelona targets on childcare provision.
mr president, i quote: ‘overall the european union is in mild recession’. this must count as the most outrageous and misleading understatement since the minor cleric in the cartoon remarked to his bishop that parts of his decidedly rotten egg were good. in spain and greece youth unemployment is around 50%. they have already exported their jobs. now they are exporting their skilled workers too. the eurozone prevents these countries from competing effectively by allowing their currency values to fall. they can compete only by austerity programmes that drive down their wage rates. and they expect countries with reduced incomes to get out of debt! freedom of movement of workers between countries with greatly differing wage levels has left semi- and unskilled workers in the west in permanent unemployment and underemployment. in the uk they are forced to sign up to slave labour, wageless work schemes for the benefit of corporate balance sheets. meanwhile, countries in the east have been deprived of their most able and motivated workers. the greatest threat to any drive for growth and employment is globalism and trade agreements with emergent economies with which we cannot compete. the eu talks about achieving a single european market. its real goal is the single world market in which emergent economy wage levels will be imposed on all workers.
mr president, i do not want to provoke a big row about this, but david cameron did not say that. he said, when asked at a parliamentary committee, that there are lots of contingency plans to deal with all sorts of eventualities, and this may be one of them in the event of a particular event happening. i think that if hannes reads the detailed press coverage and the comments about it, he will find that the reports that he has read are not true.
mr president, acta has now been rejected by five parliamentary committees. it has been killed so many times that in fact it now only exists thanks to the epp life support machine. (applause) no emergency surgery, no transplant, no long period of recuperation is going to save acta. it is time to give it its last rites. it is time to allow its friends to mourn and for the rest of us to get on with our lives. (applause)
mr president, i opposed the report on the attractiveness of investing in europe. investment is key to our economic growth. to be competitive we need investment, but unless we are competitive we lose it. to help our small businesses become competitive, i have campaigned urgently for them to be excluded from large bits of eu legislation, but that is not in this text. i am also concerned that larger long-term investors like pension funds and insurance companies face unintended burdens from some of europe’s legislation on the financial sector. the committee on international trade and the committee on industry, research and energy agreed with me, but this did not make it into the text. instead, this text calls for further coordination of employment and social policies. we know that when we coordinate at eu level our policies become even more restrictive and not less. the only investor that will be left in europe is the state, and the state has run out of money.
mr president, we need to take advantage of the single market in order to attract more investment in the eu. all too often the only kind of investment which the eu wants is to promote public investment. eu funds do not necessarily increase our global competitiveness. the eu already has a high-quality human capital and a predictable business environment. as a former businesswoman i know that is not enough to attract new ventures. we need to give businesses what they want, namely less red tape and lower taxes. this report recognises that high taxation is damaging the eu’s competitiveness but, if we are serious about attracting foreign direct investment, then what we must really do is liberate the economy from excessive bureaucracy.
mr president, as we strive for economic recovery in northern ireland, we face the challenge of attempting to rebalance our local economy by moving away from a reliance on the public sector for employment. it is, therefore, vital that northern ireland plc can offer incentives to foreign companies to attract them to set up in the province and to bring with them investment and job creation in the private sector. it is, therefore, deeply concerning that the commission is proposing quite radical changes to the rules surrounding these incentives, as part of the post-2013 regional aid guidelines. of particular concern is the size of fdi companies eligible for regional aid funding. this situation is compounded in northern ireland by the fact that my constituency is the only part of the united kingdom to share a land border with a euro zone country, and one which has a corporation tax rate of 50% less than the uk one. in recent times in northern ireland, we have seen companies like the new york stock exchange and citigroup come to belfast. under the post-2013 rules, these companies could not have come.
mr president, it is very obvious why people are not investing in europe: our costs are too high, our labour market is too rigid, our taxes are too high. we are witnessing an epochal shift in power and wealth. we still look at these old maps which have europe at the middle, we do not realise the extent to which the centre of gravity has shifted to the pacific. and the reason it has happened is very easily identified. for 500 years the secret of europe’s success was our diversity, our variety, our pluralism, the fact that instead of becoming a single empire we remained a plurality of competing states, each trialling new ideas, each striving to outdo its competitors. the tragedy of our generation is that, just as the great civilisations of asia have learnt the secret of decentralisation, we in europe are going in the opposite direction. we are following the ming, mogul, ottoman path towards more uniformity, more bureaucracy, more taxation and more harmonisation. there is nothing inevitable about this. we are the authors of our own poverty. ‘the fault, dear brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings.’
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. it is vitally important that the eastern neighbourhood partnership (enp) remains effective for these five countries in our eastern neighbourhood. it is clear to me that the eu must continue to advertise its free market liberal economic model to the east, lest more retrograde economic forces prevail there. dcftas will not only encourage trade flows between the eu and ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan, but will also force a necessary liberalisation of their internal economies and, hopefully, more democracy. i specifically welcome the report’s conclusions that the arab spring has diverted our attention from eastern partner countries whose exact economic and geopolitical situation continues to change in ways in which we must be aware of now, such as the growing influence of china in that region and also the competition posed by the eurasian economic community with central asia. it is especially important to keep ukraine on board as the general political drift in that country is not favourable to western interests. ukraine’s record on human rights and democracy, already sullied by the tymoshenko incarceration case, is set to deteriorate further if the proposed ban on discussing lgbt issues takes place.
mr president, i believe the eu is primarily a commercial block and we should be trading as effectively as possible with our global partners, which is why i supported this report. however, it groups together a number of different countries at various stages of economic and political development and i have yet to be convinced of the added value of the eastern partnership. since their liberation from communist oppression the former soviet states have embraced democracy and the free market with differing degrees of success. we cannot possibly compare georgia, which has one of the most progressive and liberal economies in the world, with belarus which is lumbered with a soviet-style command economy. even countries like ukraine, once considered a promising partner for the eu, has political problems and is undermining economic growth. i support more trade with the countries of the eastern partnership. however, we must be cautious that the one-size-fits-all approach does not work for six extremely different countries.
mr president, it is a truth rarely admitted in this chamber that the european union can be a remarkably uncomfortable trading neighbour. the countries of the former soviet union now find themselves in the position in which a number of ex-warsaw pact states found themselves in the 1990s, where they are squeezed between two large dirigiste trading blocks. when you talk about partnership agreements with countries in the caucasus, or in the balkans, we are remarkably reluctant to open our markets to the things that they do best: coal, steel, textiles and above all agriculture. instead of offering them a straightforward free trade deal, we try to draw them into the euro-nexus of subsidies and support and regulation. this is the last thing they need; these are countries with educated and industrious work forces, with a relatively low cost of living and with the opportunity to export their way into the market through cheaper exports. all they need is the ability to sell freely and without hindrance.
mr president, the economic picture across europe is very bleak. most member states, including the united kingdom, are increasing taxes and cutting expenditure. they are doing this to reduce debt. in britain the coalition government inherited an annual deficit of gbp 160 billion when we came to office in 2010. in the last two years we have cut this by a quarter. my constituents do not enjoy the harsh medicine, but they understand it is necessary after 13 years of labour taxing, spending and borrowing too much. the european union must act responsibly when we set our budget for next year. our spending should be subject to the same discipline that we expect from the member states. taxpayers will not understand the demand from the commission that the eu increase its expenditure by 7% at a time when expenditure is being cut at home. calls by this parliament for europe to have more money whilst we face austerity at home will reduce further the reputation of the eu in my constituency.
mr president, the common agricultural policy is the european union in microcosm. we have created a system where any market mechanism was deliberately suppressed; a system based on subvention, on state support, on guaranteed prices; a system which penalises us all as taxpayers – we are forced to pay for the production of food for which there is no market – and penalises us all over again as consumers by driving up food prices; a system that makes harder the settlement of a general global free trade deal, but that fails to deliver for farmers. the slowest growing part of the european economy, and that is saying something these days, is agriculture, because enterprise has been overtaken by a system which encourages people to look to the state for every rise in life. but of course it has succeeded in one objective: it has created a corpus of people who see themselves as dependent on brussels, and that is why i say it is the european union in microcosm. the system has become a racket. it has become a way of redistributing money from everybody else to the people who, one way or another, are earning their livelihood from it.
mr president, there has not been a single rescue that has had the consequences that gave it its raison d'être in principle. the answer from european bureaucrats, however, is always to come up with a bigger bailout. ladies and gentlemen, you cannot solve a debt crisis with more debt. the recent bailout has not solved spain's debt crisis but has worsened it, adding up to 100 billion more to the country's liabilities. the hard truth is that we have witnessed the dire consequences of an artificially cheap credit fever. the medicine is bitter, but we are rectifying the disastrous consequences of that fever and, once we are done, we can grow again, following the path of sanity and common sense.
mr president, although i opposed the lisbon treaty it is now clear that european union law must conform, albeit reluctantly, with its contents, so in the case of organic products and the regulation of such products, along with my political group i accept the use of delegated acts and therefore voted in favour of this proposal. the committee should of course include representatives from member state governments and technical experts. it is quite appropriate that technical prescription of organic labelling should be handled by the commission. i welcomed amendment 4 in particular, which specifically stated that the process of alignment of the lisbon treaty should unburden organic farmers of excessive red tape through the simplification of the eu law in this area. it is to be hoped that the commission will take this opportunity now to support organic farmers, as i do every day i do my shopping in my local supermarket.
mr president, the acta file, for me personally, has been a very difficult one on which to come to a decision. my preferred route would have been to refer it back to the committee until the judgement of the ecj was available, but this was rejected democratically, and i therefore reluctantly abstained. i would like to make it clear that i do support rigorous, defensive intellectual property. i also deplore the proliferation of counterfeiting, particularly in safety-critical areas such as medicines and car parts. it is regrettable that these two issues have been conflated in the acta regulation. but i also have considerable misgivings about the level of powers proposed for various authorities and the level of intrusion into citizens’ lives that could be possible, depending on the interpretation of the report. so i therefore find it impossible to support the complete rejection and i find it impossible to support the complete embracing of this report. i think that it needs further work, but it is not a case of it being completely dead. maybe acta is dead, but we still have to go out there and find ways of promoting and supporting our intellectual property in europe.
mr president, europe’s comparative advantages cannot just be in manufacturing or natural resources but also in the marketing of proprietary information and intellectual property. this is the core of our economic model and i strongly support measures against counterfeit products. however, there are many aspects of this acta resolution which gave grounds for concern. it was a shame that the us drafters conflated physical goods, e.g. counterfeit medicines and car parts, with digital content, since the latter is so much more difficult to protect from copyright theft and requires a different approach from the former. there are also civil liberty concerns and questions regarding the draconian measures envisaged in this resolution. the ecj was reviewing these at the time, which is why i was in favour of referring it back to committee. the other issue which gave me a lot of concern was the fact that it is not a global thing, bringing on board china and india which are the source of much counterfeit in the world. so overall, like all other conservatives, i abstained.
mr president, you might imagine the horror which british meps felt when we first saw the commission’s proposals for what looks like a very routine adjustment for one year, only to discover that the voluntary modulation mechanism, much used in the uk, and indeed only necessary because of the appalling settlement on pillar 2 in the last cap, had been left out. so i very much welcome the pragmatic support by the committee on agriculture and rural development for reasserting this right for the uk for the last year of the financial framework. without it we would not be able to deliver what are, i think, fairly uniformly recognised in the european parliament as good – in many cases exemplary – agri-environment schemes delivering biodiversity and environmental benefits across the uk.
mr president, for the majority of farmers in northern ireland, direct payments account for a large percentage of business income and are key to maintaining adequate cash flows. the smooth transition to the new cap post-2013 is key, and it is important that farmers’ incomes are sustained. rural development spending must also be maintained in the transition period, especially for spending which has been earmarked for countryside management and less-favoured area payments. a lack of investment and support for the farming community over a short period of time will have a negative impact on rural communities and businesses. the commission must allow for member states to take the appropriate action to prevent this from taking place.
mr president, i did not vote for the budget mandate for 2013 in today’s vote. the commission’s proposal for a 6.8% increase is based on the forecast from member states of the amount of eu expenditure they think they will need for 2013. of course the majority of the budget – 94% of the eu budget – is spent in the member states’ own backyards, yet many in the council are now saying that the forecast for the increased spending is too high. they are disputing their own figures supplied by their own managing authorities. if we are to have a serious discussion on how much eu spending is needed for 2013 then we need to clarify member states’ forecasts and agree between the institutions what the right figures are. we also need to examine whether there is scope for savings in the budget and agree various options to be put on the table. it is also important that this parliament makes a contribution towards finding savings, and i am sure that the working group looking into this will come forward with some concrete suggestions. i hope that the commission, the council and the parliament’s committee on budgets can work together to bottom out the member states’ estimates so that we can have a robust set of options on the table which will allow us to make an informed decision on the spending levels needed for 2013.
mr president, the eu budget is eur 130 billion. that is 13 followed by ten zeros. it is a number so large that it is almost incomprehensible. yet, for the commission this colossal figure is simply not enough. the commission, like oliver twist, would like to ask for more. but, like oliver twist, the commission is in the poorhouse. many member states are tightening their belts and reining in public spending. so why should the commission be immune to austerity when it so quickly imposes it on others? we need regular evaluation of the eu budget to ensure that all spending is achieving its desired outcome. a 6.8% increase is simply not acceptable. we need to freeze the eu budget and to look to make cuts where possible.
mr president, i voted against this report as i do not believe that parliament should be giving a mandate for negotiation at trialogue of a budget with these levels of increased spending. at a time when national governments all over europe are having to take drastic and sometimes socially divisive decisions to reduce public spending, it is impossible to support an increase in spending across the eu via this budget. we are missing a golden opportunity to review the way in which budgets are put together. we need to be more flexible in looking at member states’ needs and looking for ways to save money. all kinds of innovative programmes are coming through member states, but they never seem to permeate through to this level. we here in the european parliament could achieve a real increase in public support and we could really make inroads into public perception of our activities if we were simply to grasp this nettle and get on with delivering a budget that the people of europe could support.
mr president, the budget negotiations provide an opportunity for this parliament and eu leaders to restore some degree of credibility against the backdrop of the continuing economic crisis which engulfs the eurozone and the rest of europe. a modicum of credibility can be restored if we, as meps, accept that we too must exercise budgetary restraint. i have said this often in this house but i will repeat it once again: it is simply not realistic, it is not sensible and it is not equitable that, while member state governments exercise economic prudence at home, brussels argues for the right for greater budgets. where is the responsibility? where is the leadership and the example that the eu can show at this time? in the united kingdom confidence in the eu is at an all-time low. while we persist with vanity projects like the european house of history or the waste of travelling between two places of work, strasbourg and brussels, then that will not change.
mr president, british conservatives have consistently called for the eu to do less, but do it better. therefore i could not vote for this resolution, giving a mandate to take to the budgetary trialogue which would have endorsed the commission’s unrealistically inflated and actually unfounded budgetary proposals. the draft budget for 2013 astonishingly calls for a 6.8% increase on the figure of gbp 100 billion a year, a figure that looks totally incongruous set against the current climate of eu-wide austerity. in a time of widespread fiscal consolidation by member states, it makes no sense to propose anything other than a spending freeze, if not a reduction. this will be widely interpreted as the institutions living in a parallel universe of their own fashioning. my constituents in london should not have to endure the prospects of more eu spending and largesse whilst every other tier of national government in my country makes cuts to its budgets, resulting in many jobs being cut in public services. i agree with ms dodds that perhaps we should close down the strasbourg parliament. that would be a huge saving to the budget, if only we could get consent for this from france and germany.
mr president, i was pleased to support marit paulsen’s report. i think that she deserves credit for producing a very balanced report that deals with some very sensitive issues where there are strong feelings on both sides of the argument. i welcome her emphasis on enforcement rather than on the need for more rules. i also welcome her suggestion of legally enforced milestones for new eu legislation in the future, because our experience of both the egg ban and the ban on battery cages, which was introduced last year, was that the commission was utterly powerless when faced with a situation where many member states appeared to be dragging their feet in enforcing that legislation. we are about to see a rerun of that same fiasco again with the ban on sow stalls and tethers for pregnant pigs. we need to give the commission more teeth to be able to step in earlier and enforce legally enforced milestones to ensure that member states do comply in future with deadlines for introducing bans relating to animal welfare.
mr president, regrettably i was not able to support this report. there are many welcome aspects, particularly the call for a new regime to deal with compliance with animal welfare advances, such as the rules on sow stalls which come into force at the end of this year. it is vital to devise a system that allows us to take action to expedite compliance before a deadline is reached. the debacle of this year’s laying hens directive must simply not be repeated. i welcome ms paulsen’s attempts to come up with a strategy for that. i also welcome the call for equivalent welfare standards on all imported animal products as a significant step forward for livestock farmers and human health. however, i regret the inclusion in this report of a call to extend the scope of europe’s animal welfare strategy to pets and wild animals. i believe that these are member state issues and will not benefit from european interference. if you look at the way in which we have put into place the european zoos directive and the complete lack of enforcement in member states, i have no confidence at all that wild animals and pets will get any more attention.
mr president, supporting and encouraging meaningful animal welfare advances is important to both the consumer and the producer. i think it is important to note from a purely production point of view that a well cared-for animal is a more productive animal. there is always a need for safeguards and updating of legislation as a result of developments in science, but equally important is the need for adequate monitoring and surveillance of the current legislation. in europe we must have a level playing field for all producers. we are all aware of animal welfare standards which have been put in place where some member states have blatantly been non-compliant and little action has been taken in the form of punishment or redress. this has been recently demonstrated in the debacle over the continued use of battery cages for hens, and is facing us again in relation to sow stalls. this puts those member states and producers that have complied at a competitive disadvantage, which is unacceptable in the single market.
mr president, i voted in favour of the paulsen report as a firm supporter generally of animal welfare across the union. it is vital that the eu should have a cohesive and effective science-based strategy in defending and advancing animal welfare. i agree with the report’s conclusion that lack of compliance and non-harmonised standards across member states not only distort farming competition, for example over the laying hens issue and the sow stalls issue, but also put animal welfare generally at risk and make our wto demands for third countries to fall into line much less credible. it is disappointing to learn that the enforcement of existing rules has remained lax. it is, however, heartening that this report envisages future legislation to fill in the rather large gaps in eu animal welfare law, most notably in the field of dairy cows. i would also like to take this opporunity to register my support for the maximum journey time of eight hours and 500 km for the transport of live animals, with some derogations, and for the general principle of ‘on the hook’ rather than ‘on the hoof’. however, i agree with my colleague that the issue of managing stray dogs is far better left to the member states to legislate on.
mr president, amid the continuing crisis, yet another summit, yet another set of short-term fudges that buoy the market for a moment and then begin to unravel soon after. at the same time the people of europe continue to suffer. in italy in may, 36.2% of young people were out of work. in spain, that number is 51.1%. in all of this summitry, the fundamental issue of the lack of competitiveness has not been answered. significantly – and very worryingly – in this whole process, the importance of national democracy has been diminished. in this house this week, we have heard demands for people to be quiet after a summit. surely this house, being directly elected by citizens, should recognise that national governments – having pursued the proper ratification of esm – have the right to raise questions when those rules are changed. i fear that we will soon be discussing another spike in this continuing crisis.
mr president, thank you for your great patience today. i am sure that for many of my uk colleagues – and particularly those other uk meps representing northern ireland in this house – the timing of this report is rather ironic in light of the banking failures of the rbs group and the particular plight of ulster bank customers in my own constituency. the technical problems that have consequently affected so many ulster bank clients, with no access to bank accounts for several weeks and problems with direct debit facilities, serve to highlight how important simple banking transactions have become to our everyday lives. the situation in my constituency has caused great anger, particularly since in great britain customers of rbs have had these problems resolved, whilst ulster bank customers will have to endure further weeks of misery. tellingly too, it has also served to highlight how banks seek patience from their clients at all times, even when they are at fault. but when clients default on their responsibility, even slightly, those penalties are severe and entirely disproportionate. it is time for the banks to regain trust from their customers and ethical banking will do much to help this.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal on common rules for direct support schemes for farmers. the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the classic comitology procedures (advisory, management, regulatory) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now replaced with a two-tier structure, consisting of delegated and implementing acts (the former including parliament’s right of veto), which enable the commission to exert powers in implementation and execution. thus, the existing body of legislation has to be aligned to this new legal reality.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal as according to the treaty of the functioning of the european union (tfeu) the current regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 (as one of the first proposals) has to be aligned based on the principle of sorting the current commission implementing powers which were adopted on the basis of regulations (ec) no 1974/2006 and no 1975/2006 between measures of implementing nature and measures of delegated nature.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which strikes the right balance between the need for the commission to act efficiently and expediently, on one hand, and the powers parliament and the council have under the lisbon treaty with regard to the legislative process, on the other.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the amendments relating to the expenditure to be financed by the eaggf and the recovery procedure constitute a simplification in that they replace two council regulations and result in a decrease in the administrative tasks incumbent on member states.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal and share the point of view of the rapporteur on this proposal. the commission has drawn an accurate distinction between more general provisions, establishing additional elements (article 290) and more technical elements that are very much connected with the discretion that member states enjoy in implementing this measure (article 291). therefore no amendments on the classification of delegated and implementing acts are proposed to the proposal for a regulation to amend regulation (ec) no 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the classic comitology procedures (advisory, management, regulatory) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now replaced with a two-tier structure, consisting of delegated and implementing acts (the former including parliament’s right of veto), which enable the commission to exert powers in implementation and execution. thus, the existing body of legislation has to be aligned to this new legal reality.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal which should help improve access for eu companies to the russian market for services. the russian market remains very restrictive and is not in line with their new obligations since becoming wto members.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. while regretting the survival of trade-distorting measures in russia after its wto accession, i appreciate that the eu producers of automobile components will benefit from a compensation scheme in case their exports to russia fall significantly. the rapporteur also calls for a close monitoring of the evolution of trade relations in vehicles and their components between the eu and russia and, if necessary, for renegotiating the terms of the compensation scheme before the end of the phasing out of the trims.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the urgency and importance of a legally binding agreement on raw materials is strongly supported by the recent ban on imports of livestock from all the eu member states imposed by russia, following the spread of schmallenberg and bluetongue viruses, despite the fact that such a ban is in a clear breach of the rules of the world trade organisation. the european commission has already demanded immediate lifting of the restrictions by russia, but finds itself rather limited in its capacity to protect eu consumers’ and producers’ interests and respect for the wto regulations. this ban signals that not much has changed in russia’s approach, regardless of its accession to the wto. without a strong, legally binding bilateral agreement on raw materials, the eu will have no insurance against similar protectionist measures in the future.
in writing. − i supported the rapporteur today in his proposal to reject acta. the greens have been an integral part of the campaign to raise awareness of the problems we see within this treaty, for individual rights and the protection of some of those most in need. concerns about the draconian and disproportionate penalties linked to copyright infringement in the proposed treaty are well-known. i am deeply concerned that governments and the commission have put themselves in the position where acta is the subject of an ecj ruling concerning its compatibility with fundamental human rights. i am also concerned at the potential problems arising for generic medicines – essential for improved healthcare for some of the world’s poorest people. i look forward to future treaties being given the same rigorous scrutiny as acta has received.
in writing. − i welcome the rejection of acta by the european parliament. i hope the commission will draw lessons from this rejection and seek to involve parliament fully in the early stage of trade negotiations. agreements struck behind close doors are always likely to be bad deals. openness and transparency must be the commission’s leitmotif for future talks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which recommended to reject the acta treaty due to its vague nature and the fact that it was open to misinterpretation. negotiations on acta have been carried out without full disclosure and the european commission should have updated parliament on the ongoing negotiations, in accordance with previous parliamentary resolutions. eu citizens and civil society have expressed serious concerns about acta and, although i firmly believe that intellectual property right infringement must be tackled at an international level, i cannot agree with this treaty as it stands. acta was intended to bring numerous benefits and curb piracy; however, these benefits are outweighed by the potential threats to online freedoms. other measures must now be looked at to protect intellectual property rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this report lays down the provisions for 2013 and covers the ‘gap’ in legislation while we wait for the cap. i welcome this as a positive first step, which i hope will set a precedent for a smooth transition to the reformed payment scheme. in ireland, our farming industry and rural communities, as well as being fundamental to our society, are some of our greatest assets. they have already seen their share of crises and we must ensure that the reformed cap looks after these areas, ensuring nobody is left out in the cold. i am particularly pleased to see the special provisions put in place to ensure there is no drop in funds as a result of the end of voluntary modulation. this method of manageable, step-by-step transition should be at the heart of the cap reform.
in writing. − i supported this resolution. the current financial discipline provision requires all farmers’ direct payments to be scaled back if the pillar i budget minus a eur 300 million margin is forecast to be exceeded. in the current financial perspective, the purpose of the margin is to provide for a ‘safety net’ in case of any unforeseen need for additional financing. in its proposals for the multi-annual financial framework and the cap for 2014-2020, the commission is proposing to make use of a new crisis reserve to address additional financing needs resulting from an unexpected agricultural crisis. in line with these proposals, the draft regulation removes the eur 300 million margin for the financial year 2014.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution as i do not feel any significant increase in the budget can be justified in the present financial crisis.
in writing. − i did not support the vote to approve parliament’s resolution on the 2013 eu budget. although there were measures within the budget i did support, the overall budget’s net increase of 6.8% over the 2012 levels at a time when states all over the eu are imposing austerity measures is something i cannot condone. i have previously voted to limit additional member state contributions to the rate of inflation, and suggest a reappraisal of spending priorities for specific budget lines with any unspent money reallocated. such funds could also be used to meet extra commitments resulting from new post-lisbon treaty measures. a favourite area for funding cuts is the billions of euros spent on the iter nuclear fusion budget. i believe this selective approach to be a more appropriate method for directing spending in times of financial hardship, rather than approving across-the-board blanket percentage increases.
in writing. − i regret that the alternative motion for a resolution was not passed as it contained strong guarantees in relation to cloning and transport times for live animals. however, i supported the resolution which was eventually passed as it is a positive step forward. the eu urgently needs to address the effective implementation of existing legislation, not least with regard to the zoos directive, and member states need to increase their rate and standard of inspection in relation animal welfare. it seems that many of my colleagues believe that high welfare standards reduce competitiveness: it is true that those producers who cut costs by cutting standards are a problem: they need to be tackled by making sure rules are kept, where they exist. but we also need to address the rules of international trade, so that methods of production can be made explicit and also used to ban low-welfare imports.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution as the final text weakened our commitment to animal welfare.
in writing. − i voted against this report because it became apparent that yet again animal welfare was to play second fiddle to agricultural profit. for parliament to vote against the introduction of an eight hour travel time limit for livestock is outrageous. to add to this derogations for certain regions to ignore welfare standards is at best cruel and at worst immoral. the paulsen report is a blot on parliament’s reputation and proves yet again that the vested interest that is the european agriculture industry wins the day over the need for proper animal welfare standards.
in writing. − mr president, according to a recent study, my own constituency of northern ireland has the highest rate of stray and abandoned animals in the united kingdom, with 9 000 stray dogs found across northern ireland in 2011 and 1 615 of these being destroyed. this equates to approximately one in six of the dogs in pounds – a much higher proportion than the uk average. in order to help tackle these high statistics, the northern ireland executive has introduced new legislation under which all dogs will have to be micro-chipped when their licence is renewed. it is our hope that making micro-chipping compulsory will reduce the number of strays on the streets and mean fewer healthy animals have to be put to sleep. i voted against this report. i believe that the proactive stance taken in northern ireland on the issue is a good model and one that can easily be taken at member state level.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on pets and stray animals which calls on the commission to put forward an eu legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals, including: rules for the identification and registration of animals; stray animal management strategies, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes; measures to promote responsible ownership; the prohibition of unlicensed kennels and shelters; the prohibition of the killing of stray animals without medical indication; information and educational programmes in schools on animal welfare; and severe sanctions to be imposed on any member state which fails to comply with the rules.
in writing. − in the run-up to euro 2012, i received a number of letters about dogs in ukraine. my constituents were concerned about the inhumane methods used to reduce the country’s population of stray animals. this resolution on stray animals has been proposed by the committee on petitions. it is important that we listen to the issues which are of most concern to our citizens. nevertheless, i was not able to support this resolution. this is not because i do not care for the welfare of animals. i am a firm supporter of animal welfare and i recently signed the written declaration on dog population management in the european union. yet there was a difference between the written declaration and this resolution. the declaration called for member states to adopt dog control and anti-cruelty laws. the resolution wants to introduce an eu legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals. there is no legal basis for such a framework and i cannot support new rules on strays at the eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ecr resolution which welcomed the summit conclusions, including several new programmes or compacts dealing with responses to the present crisis. the first of these relates to the report concerning deeper financial integration to strengthen the economic and monetary union. the second concerns future measures to improve growth and competitiveness, named the compact for jobs and growth. we can all agree that overcoming the crisis in the euro zone is the overwhelming political priority of the foreseeable future. the financial crisis has now been ongoing for four years, yet the european union risks being the last significant economic region to emerge from it. i support the efforts of members of the euro zone to address the structural shortcomings that the financial crisis has revealed and welcome the acknowledgement that specific differentiations exist between euro zone and non-euro zone member states. this must be respected for any new framework specifically relating to the functioning of the monetary union, rather than to the single market. all institutions should now work tirelessly to deepen the single market and move towards completion of the single market act. further improvements to the single market will also be necessary to boost jobs and growth.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which among other things calls on the member states to distribute wealth evenly in the european union by fighting tax evasion, by introducing taxes on wealth, by increasing income taxes for those on the highest incomes, and by taxing the financial sector and their speculative financial products.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s decision to limit its proposals on access to a basic bank account to a recommendation; i believe that the member states have the capability to act alone to improve consumer access. despite basic bank accounts being voluntary in the uk, there are 16 different basic accounts available. a legal right to such an account would therefore have little impact in terms of consumer access to finance. for that reason i am unable to support parliament’s report. it departs from the commission’s initial proposal by calling for a legislative proposal that would require all banks and other payment service providers to offer such a service – this is unnecessary and conflicts with the freedom to contract. the report is far too prescriptive with regard to account features and pricing. it is important that national authorities are given the discretion to ensure that any measures have a proportionate impact on their market. otherwise costs will rise, thereby jeopardising existing provision for consumers. i urge the commission to ensure that all policy options are carefully considered before bringing forward any future legislative proposal, taking the principles of subsidiarity and necessity fully into account.
in writing. − i welcome today’s resolution on basic bank accounts, and the commission’s response during the debate, as being important steps towards greater social inclusion. an estimated 30 million european citizens do not have a bank account and approximately 7 million have been refused access to one. while some may choose not to be within the banking system (and, given current events, who can be surprised at their decision?), many others do not have a choice. they then find it difficult to take out contracts for housing or other essential services, and may find themselves paying higher prices for domestic utilities as companies effectively charge a premium for what they view as ‘high-risk’ groups: the poorest are often hit hardest. i look forward to the commission’s proposal on legislation later this year.
in writing. − i welcome this report calling for universal access to banking services. if you prevent people from being able to hold a bank account you are in effect excluding them from the ability to benefit from financial products and services, deals and discounts and, perhaps most importantly, certain jobs which require access to a bank account. it creates an unnecessary social divide between those who hold bank accounts and those who don’t. in the uk the move towards universal benefits payments means that bank accounts are going to become an increasingly important way for people on benefits or with low incomes to manage their money. credit unions are ahead of the game and are already helping people to manage their monthly payments and ensure that they have enough money at the end of the month; banks too should be playing their part,
in writing. − i voted against this report. while i appreciate the fact that 7 % of the eu’s adult population does not have a bank account is a troubling statistic, a wholesale imposition of an obligation on financial services providers to provide free or low cost basic payment accounts is unacceptable. this will present a significant cost to the industry, especially since the report in recommendation 4 proposes that banks must take on the task of marketing bpas themselves on their websites and in branches. moreover, quite simply i do not agree that consumers should have an enforceable right to a basic payment account. what about the right of banks to choose their customers? this report – by dictating to private enterprise – essentially goes against the most basic principles of the free market which has brought so many tangible and dramatic benefits to european citizens, especially in the post-communist countries that are so well represented in my group. i would point to the commission’s original proposal as a far better and certainly more pragmatic solution.
in writing. − consumers across europe should be able to open and run basic bank accounts. currently, there are around 30 million people in europe who do not have access to a bank account. having a basic bank account is a consumer right – without a bank account citizens are excluded from carrying out essential payment transactions, such as bill payments, making cash withdrawals and receiving income or benefits. i support calls for rules to ensure that banks cannot refuse to give accounts to those with low incomes or a certain type of job. i hope that the commission will come forward with strong proposals to protect consumers and to tackle financial exclusion.
the next item is the report by göran färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a competitiveness and innovation framework programme (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks (com(2011)0659 – c7-0372/2011 – 2011/0301(cod)) (a7-0150/2012). i would like to welcome mr werner hoyer, president of the european investment bank, and mr mavroyiannis, who i think is making his first appearance before us for the cyprus presidency.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the rapporteur’s proposals, particularly for investments that will help stimulate the european economy, but i want to add a word of caution that it must be investment which adds real value. things like research and development, cross-border connectivity of energy and transport and broadband are really adding european value, whereas a lot of the previous investment in infrastructure has been of questionable value. i also agree with the rapporteur’s approach to funding. but i stress that, this being a pilot project, it is strictly time limited and at the end of that period it will be subject to independent analysis. it is important for that analysis to be taken seriously because it is not a rubber-stamp exercise. the outcome must be respected and, in respecting that, the key must be to protect the interests and exposure of the european taxpayer.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 5 july 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on breaches of schengen rules (2012/2700(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, once again we find ourselves debating the schengen system and its implementation – in this case by germany and the netherlands, but it is becoming increasingly impossible to have a discussion on schengen separated from a discussion on the security of borders generally. the schengen area is not just an area administered by the eu, it is the territories and borders of individual member states, and yet article 4(2) of the treaty on european union states that national security remains the sole responsibility of each member state. increasingly this house wants member states to have less control over their borders, and concerns about this are not reactionary or short-term but a belief by states that they themselves are best placed to deal with the unique security situation that they face. instead this debate has so far been dominated by a rather petty squabbling with other institutions. perhaps the european council and member states would feel less urgency to regain powers if this parliament acted more responsibly and understood the security pressures which we all face. in the fight against cross-border crime we need to join together to do that, but we should not be allowing ourselves to be held to ransom on topics such as my own eu pnr proposals, which were removed from our agenda at an important moment. it is important that we should conduct our business in future in a different, more considered and balanced way.
mr president, i would say to my domestic coalition partner, mr kirkhope, if he were here, that internal border controls do not play a major role in catching major criminals, or even terrorists, and nor would pnr collection on internal eu flights do that. what is needed for that purpose is not populist moves designed to impress voters that irregular migration is being curbed, but strongly cooperative intelligence-led policing. in addition we do need better managed external borders. i speak, of course, as a brit who does not enjoy free movement travelling between london and brussels or strasbourg. indeed, on a brussels–london eurostar journey i have my passport checked three times at present and my ticket twice. i acknowledge there is an issue on that route because people can buy a ticket to lille but continue to london, but please be grateful that most of you do not have to endure these checks in schengen and please preserve internal free movement so that even we brits can join one day.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i firstly welcome the reforms contained within the report by my colleague, mrs thein. i believe they represent a good first step towards improving the functioning of the court. the introduction of the lisbon treaty and enlargement have all contributed to the increasing backlog that we hear so much about, particularly in the general court. also, the economic difficulties are adding to the workload. we find an 11% increase in commercial and business-related disputes in 2011 alone. tax disputes increased by 37 % and intellectual property cases by some 18%. it is essential that the ultimate arbiter of european law works effectively and efficiently in order to provide our citizens and businesses with the utmost legal certainty when transacting across borders. we must bear in mind that, although procedural reforms are able to alleviate some of the delays, it is difficult to deny that structural reforms are necessary in order to properly resolve the burden of cases still outstanding before the court. finally, there have been some rumours circulating that the united kingdom is in fact blocking this matter going to a vote. that is not the case. we are working on a very speedy basis, moving domestic legislation to allow this to proceed through our houses of parliament, so that we can move this here in time for the appointment of the new judges in october this year.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, since we are discussing justice i would like to raise a disturbing issue that has come to my attention today. mr roger hayes has been summarily sentenced to 21 days in liverpool prison following a cursory appearance before a magistrate on monday. mr hayes was arrested at 8.30 a.m., taken to court, sentenced and locked up by 6 p.m. that evening. no members of the public or witnesses were reportedly allowed at his hearing. mr hayes’ family have reportedly been refused any direct access to him. mr hayes is the founder of the british constitution group and is a prominent tax protestor. his case arises from his withholding of council tax on a legally-based objection that the revenue is being illegally used. mr hayes’ imprisonment may well be illegal under english common law. mr hayes must be freed without delay and the issues behind it widely publicised. i hope this helps.
mr president, free elections involve campaigning free of intimidation. it is right that we raise in advance questions about the reports of arrests, impounding of assets and restricted access to media in advance of these elections. indeed for cable tv packages to exclude the opposition-leaning tv channels certainly appears indefensible. i also express my deep concern at the violent breaking up of the country’s first pride march on the international day against homophobia in may earlier this year. nevertheless, georgia is welcoming 400 osce election observers, has established a multi-party agency to rule on violations, there is a civil society ‘this affects you’ campaign which we should support, and i understand that the european union has started media monitoring, so all involved in the elections must know that we are watching. like my colleagues, i stress that these questions are put in a spirit of friendship to the country and its people. having visited the eu observation mission at the administrative borderline of the occupied territories, i want to use this debate to also invite the presidency to join me in expressing concern that the head of our mission has been declared persona non grata by the proxy authorities. finally, to my epp colleagues, i place on record our objection that you blocked our oral amendment to the eastern partnership report this week, removing an appeal to georgia to combat child labour, when unicef says that there are 2 500 working children on its streets. i understand that your party is about to hold an event in batumi which could be interpreted as seeking to help mr saakashvili’s party. our role in this parliament should be to promote functioning democracy, and we do not do so best if it appears that we are scrutinising one party in an election in a third country to a different standard from any other.
mr president, president saakashvili is a great political survivor. he has presided over two successful terms of office despite the loss of two provinces to russia in 2008. the president has succeeded in bringing his country closer to the eu, via association agreement negotiations, and also to nato, and he has a strong track record of fighting corruption and encouraging free-market economics. he has wisely appointed as prime minister the experienced vano merabishvili, who must continue now with the sweeping reforms and westward-looking policies of the current administration. but i do hope there will be a level playing field between billionaire opposition leader bidzina ivanishvili, of the georgian dream party, and his opponents in the imminent october presidential election. my group, the ecr, has links with the opposition christian democratic party. democracy is a hard won privilege and must be supported in a small caucasian country in our eu eastern partnership. i also hope there will be a significant long-term eu observation mission presence to ensure free and fair elections in that beautiful country.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, sadly we are only too aware of the atrocities and the human cost of the repression taking place in syria, and the dreadful impact on the syrian people. i want to focus very briefly on the wider implications for regional security. syria, of course, has long been unapologetically close to the regime in iran. it has hosted terrorist organisations rejected elsewhere and has promoted terrorism in other countries. only recently, hamas shifted its hq from damascus. a few months ago the anti-turkish pkk (kurdistan workers’ party) was welcomed back by assad, and syria has long been the logistics base for hezbollah and other movements with terrorist affiliates. this is in keeping with syria’s longstanding opposition to peace with israel. under assad’s regime, israel’s borders are under constant threat from syrian and iranian-sponsored attacks. turkey and israel share a strategic interest in the transparency and stability of syria, with a view to ensuring that it is no longer a sanctuary for terrorists and other hostile movements, and we should give both countries every possible support in the difficulties they face in dealing with the consequences of assad’s violence.
mr president, i would like to ask the president-in-office about his statement that those responsible for crimes must be held accountable. i would ask you, president-in-office, why you and your fellow foreign ministers dropped the reference to support for a reference to the international criminal court for crimes against humanity committed in syria from the draft text of the conclusions of the last foreign affairs council, and why you withdrew from tabling the text on syria at the un human rights council in geneva this week? is it because in reality you do not support such a reference despite the repeated calls by the un high commissioner for this to take place? like many colleagues in this debate we have read the human rights watch report this week detailing the torture inflicted by the syrian authorities, including beating by baton and wire, electrocution, burning with battery acid, sexual assault, the pulling of fingernails and mock execution. elias, one detainee, described how he had been hung by his wrists for eight days and denied sleep. he said: ‘my brain stopped working. i was imagining things. ... it was excruciating. i screamed that i needed to go to a hospital, but the guards just laughed at me.’ why do you not support a reference to the international criminal court and today will you commit the european union … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, syrian opposition leaders now claim that 15 000 people have lost their lives in this tragic conflict, which has dragged on for nearly a year and a half now. recent defections from assad’s armed forces testify to the regime’s continuing loss of support, even sometimes from the alawite component. the syrian national council, with its islamist components and other strictly secular opposition groups, must now show a fully united front against the brutal repression of the baathist assad regime, as this would aid in ceasing the conflict, which is fast taking on the characteristics of an all-out civil war. the high representative of the eu must give her full backing for the agreement reached at geneva to allow for a transitional national unity government, minus president assad, which will pave the way for democratic elections. the annan plan may yet prove to be a success. i take this opportunity also to thank turkey for all its help with the refugees and i send my condolences to the family of the pilot who was lost, shot down by the syrian air defence system. this is a tragedy. we must do all we can to bring about the end of that ghastly regime in damascus. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i know the honourable gentleman made his statement in all sincerity but can i ask him why the government of our country, led by his party, has not joined the czechs, the estonians, the finns, the germans, the irish and the slovenians, in specifically calling for that reference to the international criminal court? it could be argued that delay creates a space for a negotiated solution. however, it has not: it has created a vacuum for continued and intensified violations. why has britain not made that call?
blue-card answer. – mr howitt knows full well that i do not speak for the british government. it is a coalition government and i am not accountable for the actions of the british foreign office or the british prime minister. all i can say is that i would be very happy to see president assad tried before the international criminal court, but it may well be an expedient thing to give assad some ‘wriggle room’ to leave office. if he knows he is about to be tried and arraigned before the icc he may be tempted to stay in power and cause even further bloodshed. so i suspect the reason – i have no prior knowledge – is to actually give some possible way out for assad to leave damascus and go into exile. i am only guessing though.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, president morsi is egypt’s first democratically elected president of the post-mubarak era. whilst free and fair democratic elections are a great step forward for egypt’s people, i believe it is also essential for morsi to keep two vital manifesto promises. firstly, he must uphold the longstanding peace treaty with israel to prevent regional destabilisation, and he should recommit himself strongly to help find a lasting peace deal for the arab-israeli conflict with a two-state solution. secondly, he must protect the rights of the sizeable christian coptic community, another non-muslim minority in this country, and protect them from the persecution perpetrated against them by salafi extremists. i therefore welcome president morsi’s pledge to include christians and women in his new government. he should now also publicly distance the muslim brotherhood from the extremist elements who wish forcibly to include a saudi wahabi-style sharia clause in the constitution, which would lead to disastrous iran-style isolation for egypt and possibly to a mass exodus of christians and ultimately to the collapse of the egyptian economy.
mr president, i have recently returned from a visit to egypt along with other colleagues. it was before the presidential elections and quite clearly there was a very difficult situation: a power struggle taking place with scaf, the constitution still in a state of flux. parliament was still constituted at that time. we had an opportunity to have a dialogue with the elected members whilst we were there, and i have to confess to this house that i was left less than confident that those members would lead to an agenda of openness and liberalisation. i have real concerns for the rights of religious minorities and women. but what is the eu agenda to support the egypt that we have in front of us today? we have to support it, but not in such a way that those in power can nullify those with an alternative view. our support must be for those elected representatives who wish to develop a society built on fundamental freedoms and human rights, on shared values. mr pöttering speaks as a christian. i respond as a muslim. we speak the same language – one of basic humanity, and we have to weave that into the basic society of the egypt that is developing today.
mr president, many of us feared that the delay in the presentation of the presidential election results in egypt was cover for some form of rigging or manipulation of the votes. so, like other colleagues who have contributed to this debate, i think it is now clear that a transition has taken place in that country, and that is something we should welcome without, of course, endorsing one political party or another. there was a prospect of the whole arab spring actually being stopped in its tracks if this election had failed, so i believe that some hope is retained following what has happened in egypt today. with some other members of this house, i met representatives of the muslim brotherhood in cairo. they told us that they are committed to pluralist democracy and to women’s and minority rights. i do not think that we should take the sort of aggressive stance about political islam that we sometimes hear from the other side of this house. nor do i think that we should be naive. but i do think we should hold the muslim brotherhood to the pledges they have made to us, and that should inform the european union’s continuing relations with egypt and our continuing support for the arab spring.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the rio summit reinforced my belief that we need to ensure economic and environmental agendas go hand-in-hand. we can boost sustainable development through trade liberalisation. however, the commission is putting jobs at risk, both in the eu and in the developing world because of rigid preferential access rules. four and a half thousand skilled jobs are at risk across the eu because of restrictions on sugar cane imports. if refiners in europe fail, the developing countries will not be able to sell raw sugar cane to the eu. in brazil, sugar cane is providing a solution to economic, environment and even energy problems. during the summit, a test flight took place using jet biofuel derived from sugar cane. the commission needs to urgently make changes to the sugar regime to ensure competition in the sugar market and to ensure that sugar cane takes off in the eu.
mr president, i can do no better than a british newspaper, so i quote: ‘it is always a bad sign when a un conference ends on time: if anything substantive is at stake, these unwieldy gatherings of 190 governments invariably overrun, only reaching resolution in the early hours of the morning. so it says much about the inconsequentiality of the agreement in rio that it was finalised even before the meeting began.’ i think that is a pretty fair judgment on the structure of the summit, and i hope its failure will lead to a re-evaluation of the efficacy of these set-piece events. i would ask the commissioner to take a lead from parliament and consider the cost to taxpayers of mass attendance. i do, however, welcome one outcome and that is the setting up of the new high-level group. it will meet regularly and, i hope, avoid future dependence on these events, concentrating on true environmental sustainability, without all the social ‘fluffy stuff’ that has been associated with the rio talks. i look forward to parliament working closely with commissioner potočnik in developing what mr gerbrandy so eloquently described as a ‘bottom-up’ approach – an approach that i fully support. if we are disappointed with the outcome for oceans, we have our common fisheries policy. if we are disappointed with the outcome for the environment, we have our land-use policy. let us use these policies aggressively and make sure that we make a difference.
mr president, the rio summit failed utterly, as did copenhagen and cancún before it. we have to ask why, and the truth is that nobody believes in climate change any more. there has been no global warming for 15 years. sea levels are not rising significantly. countries like india, china and the usa will not sacrifice economic progress for speculative and alarmist theories about climate change and our european taxpayers will no longer pay for it. more and more scientists are rejecting the alarmist case. earlier this week in this parliament we heard from professor fritz vahrenholt. professor vahrenholt has been for decades a german socialist politician and green activist. he has been an environmental regulator and most recently he was ceo of rwe renewables. but after a lifetime of environmentalism, he has looked again at the facts and concluded that carbon dioxide is not a significant driver of climate change. i commend to colleagues his important book ‘the cold sun’. we are told that renewable energy will become cost competitive as the price of fossil fuels rises, but the price of fossil fuels is not rising. new oil finds are coming on-stream. the world is awash with natural gas. the usa and china may soon become net exporters, and beyond shale gas we have methane hydrates which offer more energy than all other known fossil fuel reserves put together. the price of electricity in the usa has halved on the back of shale gas. natural gas in the usa is one fifth of the price in germany. how is europe supposed to compete with those prices? we have voluntarily made decisions on energy which will marginalise and deindustrialise europe. we are driving energy-intensive businesses with their jobs and investment out of europe altogether. we are forcing households and pensioners into fuel poverty. we have chosen to impoverish our children and our grandchildren. future generations will look back at this period with horror and despair and they will never forgive us.
mr president, as one of the meps in rio, i would like to join with colleagues who were there to thank personally commissioner potočnik and, despite all the shortcomings, to say how proud we were of the position he took on behalf of us all in the european union. he understands that my main role at the summit was to press the case for mandatory sustainability reporting by business. again, paragraph 47 of the summit’s conclusions represented only a limited success. i made the case for voluntary calls for business to report. ten years ago in paragraph 17 of the johannesburg plan of implementation, the european commission itself did so in 2002, as did the g8 countries in 2007, but since then we have seen perhaps only 6 000 of the world’s 80 000 multinational companies begin to report. we have to do more, more quickly, and the experience of denmark, sweden, south africa and others is that regulation is an essential part of enabling us to do so. the strength of paragraph 47 is that it names governments and the un itself in calling for action on corporate sustainability reporting. it specifically uses the concept of integration and seeks to build on not duplicating existing frameworks. i would specifically name the global reporting initiative and the international integrated reporting council in this respect. i am proud that denmark and france have joined the friends of paragraph 47 as governments in taking this forward. i hope that in his reply commissioner potočnik will express his support for his colleague commissioner barnier in bringing forward regulation at european level on binding corporate sustainability reporting.
mr president, this is an extremely complex issue that has caused much debate and discussion within cites for more than ten years now. we are dealing here with the whole question of who does what when catching fish in international waters and then landing them in a port, particularly in respect of marine species listed in cites appendix 2. last year the cites standing committee came very close to endorsing the recommendations agreed by the working group that flag states should be responsible for export certificates, but at the last minute brazil and the oceania region brought up the question of chartering and effectively threw a spanner in the works. they wanted special provisions for chartering vessels fishing in areas beyond national jurisdiction. now the issue was referred to a working group which met recently in the us and, although the majority of countries were in agreement on provisions for chartering vessels with special safeguards, including consultation with our fishery management organisations and the food and agriculture organization, there was no overall consensus. the issue is now on the agenda for the upcoming standing committee of cites, which is supposed to endorse the text and refer it to the conference of parties next year for adoption. just when everyone thought that the issue was now closed, the new provision of giving the flag state the responsibity of issuing certificates for marine specimens caught by another flag state, the chartered one, is now being seen as highly risky. several eu member states have raised concerns that this would cause conflict with existing provisions for our fmos as well as with our own regulations to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and would risk creating distortions to the rules of origin. surely the most important issue here is not to lose sight of the main purpose of cites. i am not reassured by what i heard commissioner potočnik say at the opening of this debate today and i hope the commission can give us some further reassurance that they are taking this matter very seriously.
in writing. – in fisheries, the flag state is ultimately responsible for the activities of a vessel, including declaring catches, enforcing management measures, control activities, etc. both the eu’s iuu regulation to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the fao guidelines on iuu are based upon this principle. this long-established principle is threatened by the practice of chartering. if a state engaged in fishing on the high seas charters a vessel flying the flag of another state, the flag state and not the chartering state must be responsible for the vessel’s actions.
mr president, if i may repeat a cliché: justice delayed is justice denied. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. any large backlog in any part of the eu justice system is obviously highly unwelcome. the fact is that, despite a large increase in the number of cases disposed of annually – i.e. in productivity – the number of pending cases continues to rise year on year, as we have failed to close the gap with the increasing number of new cases. i was not in support of the lisbon treaty, but we now need to buttress it by adjusting to the high judicial case-load that the treaty seems to have generated. the list of structural reforms, as we have heard, will reduce the restrictions on the composition of the grand chamber, allowing holders of the newly created post of vice-president to sit in the grand chamber in lieu of the president, and doing away with the quite excessive requirement that all the presidents of the five-judge chambers be present there all the time. i am all in favour of streamlining the eu’s decision-making so that my constituents get better value for money.
mr president, during the 18th century in a sermon preached before his king, bishop hoadly of winchester made the observation that ‘whoever hath an absolute authority to interpret any written or spoken laws, it is he, who is truly the lawgiver, to all intents and purposes; and not the person who first wrote or spoke them’. judicial activism is a problem intrinsic in any system which places final interpretative power in a tribunal. it is a system that has been greatly exacerbated in the european union by two particular phenomena. first of all, the fact that there is no requirement for the judges at the ecj to have spent a single day on the bench in their home countries. the only qualification you need in essence is a law degree, so many of them are politicians, officials who have an overt federalist agenda. secondly, the federalist agenda is in the job description, in the spec of the people who do it. this is the problem with any renegotiation. you have matters which are plainly intergovernmental being reinterpreted as single market issues, as qmv issues by judges with a mission. the ecj should stick to interpreting what the law says, rather than ruling on the basis of what they think it ought to say.
mr president, as i have just said before regarding the ecj, i welcome this common-sense proposal on reforming the structural features of the eu justice system to better fit them for an ever-expanding case-load of an enlarging union post-lisbon. it is quite shocking actually that there currently exists no workable procedures for replacing a civil service tribunal judge if he or she falls ill. one has to wonder why this was not included in the original statute in the first place. i was in favour of the separate civil service tribunal (cst) at the time of its establishment in 2005 and i should like to reiterate my ecr group’s position that we need more specialised courts on the model of the cst to provide tailored expertise in specific legal areas such as infringements of ip law. but we must always be wary, as my colleague daniel hannan said, of judicial activism whereby judges seek to replace the role of elected politicians.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. it is of course very questionable whether we need to have a growth plan at european level over the next ten years after the clear failure of the lisbon agenda. i am sceptical about a deliverable programme that the project bond initiative hopes to represent. however, i have some immediate real concerns and this is why a proper evaluation of the pilot phase is vital at this stage, as the ecr group has repeatedly made clear. the moribund economies of southern europe do not necessarily need some gigantic keynesian investment programme. they need flexible labour markets. the problem is mainly the supply side. across europe, as well as at eu level, national and regional governments refuse to cut red tape, the one long-term solution that could lead europe to the prosperity we now find elusive in a globally competitive world. i am nevertheless in favour of infrastructure development as a general principle and, since this initiative may, if well thought through, bring some success, it makes sense to trial it now, with a view to making an evidence-based decision on whether to take it further at a later date.
mr president, once again we are trying to spend our way out of trouble. excessive consumption without any commensurate production is why we are in this mess, and more subsidies are the problem rather than the solution. i know it is a very unpopular thing to say this in this chamber, where you get thunderously applauded if you make any kind of attack on the british conservatives – as we saw yesterday, when mr swoboda did it, and the day before, when mr barroso did it. i think the mood of the house can perhaps be best understood in psychological terms. perhaps i should ask my friend and colleague, charles tannock, who is a proper psychiatrist, to explain it in terms of transference, in terms of projection. the thing is that nobody is enjoying this mess, for all that mr barroso claims otherwise. no one could possibly be enjoying the economic crisis that is engulfing europe, and nobody likes to say ‘i told you so’; it never makes you popular. what we are pleading for is that the people who have got the analysis right so far be listened to next time, so that we stop repeating the very mistake that led us to our present discontent. we are where we are because we have been spending too much and borrowing too much. we are not going to get out of it by spending more and borrowing more.
mr president, at a critical time for peace negotiations, possibly based on the arab peace initiative, it is highly inappropriate for a body such as this parliament, famed for its anti-israeli invective, to seek to undermine the honest broker status of the european union and incite further tensions. the goal should be now to work for an equitable and viable two-state solution where israelis live in peace and security while the palestinians have the job opportunities they need to prosper. rather than apparently coming down so strongly against one side, the parliament should take a much more balanced position and not prejudice any negotiations between the parties, which i very much hope will resume soon. my group, the ecr, refused to sign the joint motion which virtually tried to question the state of israel’s legitimacy. this is the only true democracy in the region and it was more like a report than a resolution: a litany of condemnations of israel. we all hope for a two-state solution of course, but these matters are very complex and a lot of give and take will be required by all parties to come to a fair and lasting peaceful settlement.
in writing. − i voted for this report but i feel that it would be unwise to require the court to create at least two specialised chambers. this would be too rigid. i would prefer to leave the court with the possibility of creating such chambers in its rules of procedure. moreover, the court already has the power to allocate cases of the same nature to one or more specified chambers.
in writing. − the court of justice has faced an ever-growing caseload in response to the continued expansion of the powers of the european union and increasing levels of litigation. the backlog of cases in the general court is increasing: as of 12 october 2011, the number stood at 1,323 cases, compared to 1,304 at the same date in the previous year. it is important that the court of justice works effectively, as part of a well-functioning legal system providing clarity and certainty for firms operating in the eu. under this dossier, the office of vice-president of the court of justice will be established, and the rules relating to participation of judges in the grand chamber reformed, in order to allow the court to operate more efficiently. concerning the civil service tribunal, the possibility of appointing temporary judges has been created, in order to substitute for existing judges who may be unavailable for long periods of time. i voted in favour of this pragmatic proposal which will avoid adding significant extra costs to the court. it ensures a balance between delivering efficiency and maintaining a consistent direction in the jurisprudence of the court.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal of the court of justice as a sensible solution to a practical problem which can be very disruptive to the work of the european civil service tribunal.
in writing. − because of the need for investment in cross-border infrastructure, particularly in ireland, i have voted in favour of this report. however, i have concerns about the use of project bonds, which involve the transfer of risk from major private sector companies to the public sector.
in writing. − i voted against the färm report because my experience with the management and supervision of european funding is not good. regional funds which require cofinancing are poorly controlled, with responsibility being shirked by the commission which is ultimately in charge. project bonds should be a good means to get private funding for these infrastructure projects, but alas, with the eu managing them i anticipate poor control and indifferent results.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. a modern and effective infrastructure is of key importance for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as well as reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market. investment needs in the field of transport, energy and information and communication technologies (ict) infrastructure in europe are estimated at eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance the main part of these – mostly profitable – investments, the public sector’s role in europe will be crucial for achieving the above targets. to this end, the commission has proposed a ‘connecting europe facility’ (cef) for the next financial framework in order to accelerate infrastructure development in the fields of transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on strategic cross-border parts.
in writing. − investment needs for transport, energy and ict infrastructure projects are estimated at around eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. it is therefore vital that we find some mechanism to help generate this investment. i believe that the decision to launch a project bond pilot phase over the next 18 months is a good initiative and will help test how financial markets perceive them. guarantees from the eu will help to attract private investment in transport, energy and information technology network projects across the eu. the fact that the bonds are guaranteed by the eu budget and the eib will mean that they are safer and more attractive to capital market investors, for example, pension funds and insurance companies. at present, many investors are reluctant to fund large infrastructure projects due to risks that are perceived to be too high. i strongly believe that project bonds are what we need in order to boost growth and provide the best infrastructure for citizens across the eu.
in writing. − i voted against draft amending budget number 3/2012, the balzani report, because my party’s policy is to return unused european funds to the member states and not to put them aside for future use by the european union. member states are having difficult budgets at present and are cutting across the board, even frontline services. at times such as these there is no excuse for these funds being diverted for the questionable projects of the eu.
in writing. − in 2011 there was a budget surplus of almost 1.5 billion euro. as is standard practice, this money should be transferred back to the member states by way of diminishing their global contribution to the eu budget. this global decrease by member state will also be influenced by the updated own resources forecast, traditional own resources, value added tax and gross national income and updated corrections. the original balzani report called for a draft amending budget to reallocate the surplus, not back to the member states, but to other budget lines, a blatant attack on the member states and their right to have their money back because of over-budgeting or under implementation by the european union. there were last minute amendments to the report which did reallocate the surplus back to the member states, as is standard practice, and i therefore voted in favour of the final report.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which provides for a reduction of eur 768 707 073 in member states’ contributions to the union’s 2012 budget.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which calls on israel to respect palestinian rights in the west bank and east jerusalem.
author. − mr president, i would like to tell you a story about teresa, who is a lesbian woman who fled from uganda and came to my constituency of london. when teresa’s father found out she was a lesbian, he beat her and then he tried to burn her. after that, he told the police about her and the police came and forced her into a cell. the next day two policemen came and they raped her. the following day three policemen came and they beat her, and they raped her, and one of them urinated in her mouth. after that, teresa spent the following year in this stinky little cell being beaten every day, raped every day, and being forced to tell who she knew was a lesbian. during the year teresa became pregnant and she gave birth in her cell alone to a stillborn baby. this baby was left to rot next to her for weeks. teresa managed to leave and escape and in 2006 she came to london where she now lives. she is deaf because of the beatings. teresa is not exceptional. i was unfortunately told by the uk lesbian and gay immigration group that teresa is typical of women in north africa who are lesbians. teresa, this resolution is for you, and for all the women who suffer for their sexuality.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, unfortunately over 30 countries on the african continent consider homosexuality to be a crime. there are often severe punishments for both men and women convicted of engaging in homosexual relations, some countries even mandating the death penalty. the abhorrent practice of corrective rape is equally endemic across africa. i call upon these governments who tacitly sanction or turn a blind eye to these acts of violence and discrimination to honour their obligations as signatories to legally binding international human rights instruments and conventions which should be at the forefront of all eu agreements with these countries in africa. indeed a hallmark of a modern progressive society is one which does not discriminate or stigmatise on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity. i welcome therefore the concrete steps taken by a swathe of sub-saharan african countries who have pledged to reform their existing laws, decriminalise homosexuality and improve social conditions and sexual health conditions for lgbt people.
mr president, last year the british prime minister made clear his support for gay rights when he said that african countries which persecute homosexuals will have their aid cut unless they stop punishing people in those relationships. the british international development secretary, andrew mitchell, subsequently carried out this threat and cut aid to malawi by gbp 19 million after two gay men were sentenced to 14 days’ hard labour. this announcement caused quite a stir, and it is not yet clear that this will be a completely effective way of aiding human rights on the ground, but nevertheless it is the right thing. the point that my prime minister was trying to make is clear: imprisonment, corporal punishment and sexual violence, including the horrendous practice of corrective rape, are wholly unacceptable to all civilised peoples.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the case of the journalist and political activist andrzej poczobut, who is from the polish minority in belarus, illustrates the brutality and paranoia of the minsk regime. poczobut was detained by the kgb and imprisoned for allegedly slandering president lukashenko in an article written for an internet newspaper. in the eu, criticism of one’s government is rightly considered legitimate debate and encouraged as an integral constituent part of the democratic processes. however, in belarus such free expression earned poczobut the personal ire of the president, a suspended three-year prison sentence and enduring house arrest while awaiting trial. it has long been clear that, under the lukashenko dictatorship, there is no rule-of-law provision, independence of the judiciary or even basic standards of human rights in belarus. eu sanctions against the regime should be increased until lukashenko steps down and gives belarusians a democratic vote to determine their own future governance freely. we have had enough, in this parliament, of another cuba in europe.
author. − mr president, the forced abortion scandal in china is truly shocking. feng jianmei was subject to arbitrary arrest and detention by local officials in zengjia and, after allegedly being assaulted, was subject to a horrific forced abortion in the seventh month of pregnancy. i condemn, as does my group, this barbaric act and welcome the resulting widespread public outcry within china, which was somewhat unusual. regrettably, sex selective abortions and even female infanticide persist in china, despite campaigns and incentives aimed at preventing and prohibiting these horrendous practices. this has led to an increasing gender imbalance with 118 newborn males for every 100 females, according to the latest census figures. the commission must ensure that the eu budget does not fund any organisation or entity directly or indirectly involved in coercive family planning policies. the high representative must, as a priority, place forced abortion and forced sterilisation at the top of the agenda of the next eu-china human rights dialogue.
mr president, the one-child policy of china is at the centre of this problem and its implementation through forced abortions and female infanticide is the real measure of its real effects. the enforcement of this policy should, frankly, be abandoned by the chinese authorities. i know that we all wish that, and in fact the policy itself should be completely abandoned too. in the meantime, recognition in china of the terrible forced termination of a seven-month pregnancy because of a refusal to pay a fine, is the very least that can be expected. the chinese authorities should recognise by now that some social policies just do not and cannot work. entering into the valuable commercial world of trade, as china has done, demands of course similar social standards by their governments. it is time for them to wake up to this.
in writing. – the horrors of forced abortions in china is just the latest in decades of abuse and torture of chinese citizens by their communist party government. we should not forget that since july 20 1999, former chinese communist party president jiang zemin ordered the start of the systematic persecution of falun gong practitioners, which is still going on. the amnesty international annual report 2012 on china published on 24th may 2012, states that the chinese authorities continued to pursue a systematic, nationwide, often violent campaign against falun gong; the us state department reports on human rights practices for 2011 published on 24th may 2012, where it states that overseas and domestic media and advocacy groups continued to report instances of organ harvesting, particularly from falun gong practitioners. all of us who care about democratic government should speak out about the last 13 years of persecution of falun gong practitioners in china and democratic governments and societies everywhere should send a strong message to the chinese government to immediately stop persecuting falun gong practitioners in china.
rapporteur. − mr president, as rapporteur for this dossier, which we had scheduled for a vote on thursday, i would like to say that we are prepared to defer it for another month because we believe we may now be able to reach a first reading compromise. the situation was that four member states – france, germany, italy and portugal – were not prepared for certain statistical data to have to be submitted compulsorily. that was the situation – the impasse – we reached at the end of the danish presidency. there has been a lot of coverage about this in the media, and the new presidency has been able to exert a little more pressure. there is a potential provisional agreement, and i think that i have to wait for it to be submitted. obviously this is a matter of urgency, because how we collect statistical data – and particularly from regions, which is what this relates to – is very important in being able to prove that there are no surprises in accounts. i am sure that, in terms of economic governance and everything else to do with that, the house will agree with me. all the political groups in the committee agree with this proposal to postpone.
madam president, as the chair of the committee, i want to congratulate all the members of the committee who worked so hard to achieve what i think is an outstanding result, a real improvement to a crucial piece of the single market. it is worth recording tonight – and i am sure the commissioner would want to mark this – that this is actually the first piece of the major legislative commitments in the single market act that has been put through, and we vote on it tomorrow. i also want to record the fact – given the importance of this whole topic and the intense interest among the thousands of people around the european union who are engaged in the standardisation process – that we took a decision with the wisdom of all the coordinators involved to do an important preparatory piece of work on this, which was led by my colleague mr kožušník who spoke earlier. we drew up a strategic report on standards some 18 months ago, which shaped our view on the topic, and enabled us to consult before we got the legislation before us. i think that has really contributed to the quality of the work, and it is something that i know many of the other committees are looking at. i am delighted that my colleagues from the committee on international trade and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are here this evening, which i am sure reflects the importance and interest that they attach to the whole of this standardisation dossier. i am sure that tomorrow this proposal will have the major confidence of the whole house, but it is a reflection of the real importance of this subject that so many of the political groups and members have been engaged in getting an excellent result.
madam president, i would just like to clarify that mr nicholson, the rapporteur of the opinion in the agri committee, has been delayed by travel problems. he will be here with us imminently, so i would like to thank you and your services for allowing me to speak now, but i am delivering the speech i was going to make later on in the process. i want to make a contribution to this debate because of my recent experience with eid on sheep, and i am going to confine my remarks to how that system works technically. this system has been imposed on farmers in my constituency, despite strong opposition, and has now been around long enough for us to know that it does not work efficiently. that is not to say that some farmers do not find it useful. they do – particularly for internal flock management – but it is not sufficiently reliable to be used as a primary system for stock movements. the unreliability of the technology has been acknowledged by the commission through their granting of more time, for example, to the uk to bed the system in. why would we want to embark on an extension of this system to bovines before we get these things sorted? and why would we want to extend it at all – and i mean here specifically on a mandatory basis – unless we are clear that there are benefits to be gained? i frequently meet farmers who are terrified by the prospect of failing to achieve cross-compliance and thereby suffering the punitive withdrawal of their single farm payments. our job is to make regulations that help both farmers and the authorities to work smarter. let us take the opportunity to do that when we vote on this report.
madam president, the voluntary system proposed would have very little effect on britain because the british system is already very effective. but i have heard from a number of constituents who are concerned that anything involved in the transportation of live animals can, in the end, be used to facilitate the transport of animals for slaughter over a long distance. this is something that is clearly unnecessary in an era of modern refrigeration, and which needs to be phased out. on the question of labelling, the great concern of everyone concerned with animal welfare is that all meat originating from animals suffering ritual slaughter should be labelled: consumers have the right to know and to reject it.
madam president, i have serious concerns with regard to the bovine eid proposal. i have stood before this parliament many times to decry sheep eid. i hope the commission has learned from their incompetent handling of electronic id tags in the past, with which there are still many problems. it is essential that, if the scheme is introduced, it must be on a voluntary basis and is not, as some members of this parliament urge, subject to a report in five years to consider compulsory eid of bovine animals. the uk cattle id system works perfectly well, so the choice to upgrade should be an individual decision based on working preferences. it should be made without fear of penalty under cross compliance if equipment is subject to error. sheep tagging brought a host of problems that persecuted british farmers whose equipment was especially vulnerable to the elements. cattle in the uk are often out to grass for at least six months so tag loss is inevitable. there is a crisis in the dairy industry in the uk, while the beef market is only just seeing a small recovery after years of being in the red. both are subject to pressures from rising feed cost and cheaper foreign imports. if the commission makes a shambles of bovine tagging, the industry will be brought to its knees.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation that we have had during the debate on this particular issue. i can say in the end that we share the same view on bovine eid and voluntary beef labelling. i thank her for the hard work she did on the dossier. i support the introduction of electronic identification for bovine animals on a voluntary basis because this is the best way forward at this time. maybe at some time in the future we can return and revisit this, but at this time this is the way we should go, and not on a mandatory basis, as some have suggested. i am in favour, however, of the principle of eid for cattle because it could be a good thing in the long term. we did see the problems we faced when it was mandatory in the sheep sector, which is still leaving many sheep farmers with massive problems, especially in the uk and the republic of ireland and i am sure in other countries as well. this was not perfected so i certainly look forward to it improving with cattle. we have to adopt the right technology to compete with those outside the european union if we are going to be competitive in the world market.
madam president, in relation to bovine eid, i am supportive of the need for a voluntary-led approach, which means that duplication of management systems will be removed. in theory this should lessen the administrative burden on farmers and managing authorities. member states should have the flexibility to decide the system which best suits their own farmers, livestock markets and processors. in the united kingdom the majority of farmers do not use electronic management systems, and it would be unfair to make eid compulsory, given the impact on farmers but also the lack of tangible benefits for the consumer and taxpayer. sheep eid has proved to be nothing short of more unnecessary bureaucracy from the commission. a 100 % accuracy rate has not been possible, given the failings in technology, and unless the commission takes a more pragmatic view here, farmers in northern ireland, the united kingdom and throughout europe will be unduly penalised under cross-compliance rules. it is important, therefore, that the commission tackle the problems within the sheep sector before imposing other unnecessary rules on beef and dairy. as we move forward we must have an approach that allows for flexibity, does not prove bureaucratic for farmers and processors, improves competitiveness in the market and gives consumers valuable information to make informed choices. this is a huge task indeed for negotiation with council.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, given the eu’s well-publicised commitment to democracy, human rights and the rule of law, the fact of highly credible allegations of complicity and cia abduction, disappearance, rendition and torture after 9/11 is already bad enough, but the continuing refusal to investigate properly is compounding the original failings. delays and deliberate obstructions to independent and transparent national inquiries are an affront to liberty and justice. it is a travesty to claim state secrecy in order to perpetuate impunity. the eu, without being obstructed by the niceties, must have the guts and self-respect to enforce accountability for its own members’ involvement in human rights abuses. we have just appointed our first human rights chief in stavros lambrinidis, but the eu’s credibility in urging respect for fundamental rights throughout the world is badly undermined by the justified suspicion that some of our member states rode roughshod over international law and civil liberties, so we must clean house in order to advocate and promote the values that we espouse in our external partnerships. this is not only principled but necessary. look at the situation in libya. people allegedly subject to rendition and torture with the collusion of western governments and intelligence services are now senior in the post-gaddafi administration. tony blair has a hell of a lot to answer for. so of course does george bush, the instigator with his advisers of the dismal decade of guantánamo legal black holes and torture. the democrat presidents have not sufficiently respected the law either. president obama has disappointed in his failure to close guantánamo or shine a light on the past, and in his persistence with unfair military commissions, which could impose the death penalty, as well as his practice of assassinations by drone strikes. i firmly believe the truth will eventually out, even if it takes decades, but justice delayed is justice denied. the council and commission must join parliament in forcing some light to be shed on this terrible period, for example by supporting the un special rapporteurs.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, i too believe that the seriousness of this issue cannot be ignored. the allegations of some member states’ involvement must be treated with nothing but the fullest seriousness and thoroughness that it warrants. as a lawyer, a democrat and a former interior minister, i believe that any such investigations must be through an established process, and that process is for fully independent, judicial inquiries to be held and investigated at member state level. these inquiries are already under way in those countries that have been named in connection with these matters. public confidence is being eroded in the very services that are here to protect us, and until we have an opportunity to draw a line under the accusations and provide real proof one way or the other, reports such as this are actually feeding terrorists and extremist propaganda. my own country, the united kingdom, is one of the countries at whom these allegations are being levelled, a country that has long-established principles of freedom, fairness and the rule of law. i welcome the opportunity of an investigation in order to reinstate the reputation of our security services, currently tarnished with allegations of our alleged involvement. other member states are also put in the dock, accused but not convicted. is that fair? of course, it is important to move forward in a way that encourages cooperation and a good working method in finding a resolution. unfortunately, i do not think that the content of this report, its language or its approach helps us achieve either of these things. mr president, i come from a country where you are innocent until proven guilty but, unfortunately, this does not seem to be enough for this parliament.
blue-card question. – mr szymański, you have just reinforced my worry about your original remark. i insist to you that terrorist acts are crimes and should be treated like other crimes, with an attempt to put people on trial in fair trials. we have done that with international crimes through icty and the international criminal court. clearly there are certain challenges, but unfortunately the attempt to do so – would you not agree – was blown away in the immediate reaction after 9/11. we should have cooperated to reinforce international law and practice on putting terrorists on trial. do you agree?
mr president, i recall standing in this very chamber some seven years ago – when my country had the presidency and douglas alexander was here – and putting a question to him specifically about these allegations which were coming to light. i experienced his wrath and the wrath of our interior minister at the time. i was practically laughed out of this chamber. today, mr president, we ought to be proud of this flag, but i am afraid that in this instance we cannot be. there are only two institutions that are represented here today: the council’s seats are still empty, showing that there is a complete lack of recognition or commitment from our national governments. had it been a third country that had these allegations levelled against it, i wonder what our response would have been. of course, in the united kingdom we have now taken a very different step of having our own internal investigations, rejecting what may have been done before, but that is not enough. when terrorists carry out actions, we are not weak by sticking to our principles. they cannot destroy us through their actions, but they can take away so much more from us through our reactions. what i say to mr szymański when he makes the sort of national-sentiment comments that he makes and then leaves the chamber is simply this: there is one non-eu country of which we can be proud and from which we can learn so much more, and that is norway. when it faced the most terrible of criminal offences, including bombings and death, it did not react by taking away the rights of its citizens; it delivered every right and it delivered justice. today we should salute norway for doing that.
mr president, illegal detention is not only wrong in itself, but its illegality, together with a lack of official records, facilitates the ill treatment of the detained. i hope that it should not be necessary to say that torture can never be justified morally. however, if people are not persuaded by moral arguments, we should point out that torture is ineffective because it produces unreliable information. furthermore, the propaganda value to terrorists of proven cases of ill-treatment is immense. political leaders in many european countries have to account for their actions, and some seem to have a case to answer. however they, like the detained suspects of terrorism, have the right to the presumption of innocence in any judicial process. i am convinced that full judicial inquiries should be conducted in the relevant european countries. however, i would oppose the legislation that the resolution calls for to give the european parliament a general power to place member states’ security services under scrutiny. that is the role of the parliaments and judiciaries of member states.
mr president, i recently visited the european chemicals agency in helsinki. i was shocked to discover that an agency set up to manage the administration of the reach directive will not be wound down at the end of its registration period. instead, the commission has given the agency new work in the field of biocides. my point is that agencies are created to deal with a specific area and, when they have completed their task, more work is created. this ‘jobs for the boys’ approach is weakening the value of agencies. in the committee on women’s rights, i tabled an amendment calling for the abolition of the european institute for gender equality. why? because this institute could easily be merged with the eu fundamental rights agency. the amendment was voted down but, worse still, the committee approved a 7.1 % budget increase. we need to urgently review the relevancy of eu agencies. many are inefficient and unnecessary. we can no longer afford institutions that have no added value. time has come for parliament to stand up and do the right thing.
mr president, in january 2011 a young irish couple, john mcareavey and michaela harte, had the perfect wedding and went to mauritius for their honeymoon – a perfect location, or so they thought. we are told michaela had a sweet tooth and went to her hotel room for biscuits. a short time later her newly-wed husband john found her murdered body in the bath. the subsequent trial, which ended with two hotel workers being acquitted of her murder, was a horrific experience for both the harte and the mcareavey families in terms of the investigation and the court proceedings. due sensitivity and respect for the bereaved families were severely lacking. it is therefore imperative that the eyes of the international community remain on the mauritian authorities. therefore i am requesting that the president of parliament write to the mauritian authorities asking them to do all they can to ensure those responsible for michaela’s murder are brought to justice.
mr president, the dilemma facing many member states, both inside and outside the euro zone, is that their economic and budgetary problems require contradictory solutions. their debts require cuts in government expenditure or increases in taxation or both. their recessions require reflationary measures, devaluations and withdrawal from the euro zone where applicable. unfortunately keynesian reflation, whether by bank-created credit or quantitative easing money creation, tends to be inflationary, because the expansion of the money supply precedes – sometimes by years in the case of huge infrastructure projects – the increase in the quantity of goods and services. furthermore, credit creation leads to an increase in sovereign debt. expansion by quantitative easing would be debt-free, but it is still inclined to be inflationary. one remedy might be to recruit the unemployed and under-utilised contractors on special contracts which would put them to work immediately, but for which full payment would be delayed until the large infrastructure projects had been completed. increase in aggregate demand would then coincide with increase in gdp and not precede it.
rapporteur. − mr president, addressing the shortage of certain tissues and cells is a question of common concern to all eu member states. many regularly face grave shortages in donations. the eu is a long way from being able to meet the challenge of self-sufficiency, so making it easier to find matches across europe and save lives is a challenge which should know no boundaries. in producing this report i firmly believe this is an area where the eu can truly be said to offer scope for added value. this report looks towards increasing voluntary donations, raising awareness and increasing transparency. this report is about saving lives. i would firstly like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and for their input, which made this a stronger report. there are three specific areas i felt were important for the future and which would enable this report to be forward-looking and progressive. the first of these was the question of the umbilical cord. the report looks to raising awareness about the harvesting of cord blood. a single umbilical cord provides ten times as many stem cells as the average bone marrow donation. yet tragically, too few mothers across europe are donating cord blood. indeed, in many member states, the option is rarely open to them. i therefore look towards extending cord blood collection to as many sites as possible. this report highlights the fact that collection methods and opportunities between public and private banks already exist in some member states. i would like to stress that both sectors have a role to play in meeting this serious challenge. the second area the report focuses on is the use of stem cells. these are becoming increasingly important in the treatment of disease. these cells are capable of unlimited self-regeneration, thus they can cure many diseases and repair damaged tissue. an important point here is the issue of traceability. traceability ensures the quality of the donation, but also guarantees that it is truly a voluntary donation. traceability of tissues and cells is non-negotiable, particularly when it comes to the import of tissues and cells from third countries. equivalent standards of quality and safety must apply, and i appeal to the member states who have not yet done so to review, reconsider and revise their national provisions in this regard. traceability and transparency go hand in hand with taking measures to prevent the development of a black market in gametes, particularly on the internet. the potential for such a market undermines the quality and safety of such donations, not to mention the associated legal and ethical problems. the third area which is important to address is the question of compensation for potential donors. let me be clear: i do not support the idea that the human body should ever be seen as a source of financial gain, and i absolutely reject the idea of an unregulated financial market in tissues and cells. nevertheless, if we wish to attract sufficient people to come forward and provide life-saving donations, we need to consider granting a fair and proportionate financial compensation to the donor. such compensation should be transparent, regularly audited and limited to making good the expenses incurred in making the donation. in summary, it is my sincere hope that this report acts as a wake-up call for all member states to explore possible opportunities to widen international cooperation. i also hope that other member states can build on the successes of such blood collection schemes as those run in the uk by nhs blood and transplant and the anthony nolan trust.
rapporteur. − madam president, pharmacovigilance is of course about the safety of medicines and monitoring medicines on the market for potential side effects. two years ago, parliament and the council signed off a major reform of the european system. we had not expected to be back here tonight updating that legislation before it took effect, but that was before the mediator case in france, which highlighted potential weaknesses in what we had already agreed. my big priority in the course of negotiations over the last few weeks has been to strengthen the hand of regulators in the pharmaceutical system and, by doing so, to improve patient safety. two things struck me when i looked at the mediator case. firstly, safety issues had been discussed at the european medicines agency on a number of occasions among regulators, but no formal referral had ever been made, and the issue was dropped. the company withdrew the medicine from markets in some countries for commercial reasons. the second issue which struck me was that the french and italian authorities had requested a safety study from servier back in 2000 because of these concerns, but that study was not finished until almost a decade later. by that time the medicine had been withdrawn because of the vigilance of a regional pharmacovigilance expert in france. so, when we looked at the revision, we made several key changes. the first is that, in future, companies will be under much more scrutiny when they voluntarily withdraw a medicine from the market anywhere in the world: this must be reported to the ema and questions can be asked. secondly, whenever there is any concern about safety, there will now be an automatic trigger which will lead to an investigation at european level. there will not be national discretion over that decision. thirdly, when a post-authorisation safety study is requested, that study will have to be carried out. drugs which are subject to a study will now be labelled with a black triangle so that health professionals and the public know that drug is subject to a post-authorisation safety study. what struck me about the french case was that the french regulator said that it did not have the powers to actually make a post-authorisation safety study happen. this cannot be allowed to happen again. commissioner, two outstanding issues came up during the course of negotiations which meps hope you will comment on tonight. the first was the issue of fee regulation for the ema. we need enough money to be able to carry out our pharmacovigilance work properly. the second is the issue of the black box of essential information on the patient information leaflet. you have sent me a letter about these matters and i know that you say that the commission will look very carefully at both these issues. i hope you will make a comment on this. finally, i should like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who are here this evening for the all the hard work they have put in on this dossier. i thank the danish presidency, the commission and the council presidency. the council presidency helped us expedite the work quickly so that we could reach an agreement before the summer so that it takes effect at the same time as the other changes to the pharmacovigilance legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, patient safety should always be our first priority. recent misleading information about the drug mediator led to hundreds, may be even thousands, of deaths. this reinforces the importance of this report. we need rules to protect patients from dangerous side effects of drugs. it is hoped that this report will close the existing loophole, thus forcing companies to declare the withdrawal of drugs on safety grounds. this being the case, an emergency evaluation will automatically be triggered. i am pleased to say the members working on this report acted swiftly and reasonably. could there have been other changes? yes, but now was not the right time. i am pleased that parliament put patient safety first by reacting rapidly, rather than seeking a long drawn-out revision of this legislation. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
rapporteur. − madam president, just to respond to mrs grossetête, i agree that the issue of off-label use is extremely important, but i felt we needed a more in-depth discussion on the many aspects of it and i hope we will find some time in our committee to look again at this issue. on the drug fact box, i think mr liese is correct. the problem people have is information overload. when you read it it is more like a lawyer’s list to get companies off the hook if anything goes wrong, which is a list of anything that could go wrong. so people do not believe the patient information leaflets, they are not useful to patients, and we do urgently need to look at this problem again. but, finally, one special thank you i want to make is to my researcher, ms hanks, who has put in a tremendous amount of work over the last two-and-half years on this whole dossier of pharmacovigilence and she, like all our assistants, works extremely hard on our behalf and on behalf of the people of europe, and often they are not so recognised in the work that we do.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my apologies for my delay this morning. i would like to agree with my finnish colleague and, while i agree with the main concerns of this proposed directive and believe that it is important to improve and protect the maritime environment through reductions in the sulphur content of marine fuels, there are still a number of areas that need close attention. this proposal is in clear conflict with the principle of equal treatment of member states regarding internal market agreements across the eu. the different sulphur limits set between the sulphur emission control areas in northern europe, including the english channel, north sea and baltic sea, and the rest of the eu will create disadvantages across the maritime sector, leading to increased costs for ship owners and operators and causing modal back-shifting, which will lead to increased congestion and an increase in co2 emissions. any assessment by the commission must take this disparity into consideration. to conclude, it is also important to ensure that the technology required by the maritime sector to meet conditions of this directive within the timeframe is widely and affordably available. my information at the moment is that there is insufficient cleaning equipment available. there must also be assurances to those wishing to invest in alternative fuels, such as liquid natural gas, that the investment will be made in the infrastructure.
mr president, the eu is obliged to comply with international obligations in this important matter and we have a timetable to meet. within the opinions prepared, some mention has been made of the possibility of what might be described as the unintended consequences of this proposal. these include the potential of diverting ships to ports in those countries that choose to circumvent international obligations, as well as diverting the carriage of goods from sea transportation to roads, which counters policy elsewhere. as well as issues about ocean-going ships being able to comply with the timetable, there is a related issue as to where the lower sulphur content fuel will come from. refining capacity for these fuels is not infinite and there is no doubt that the obligations the eu wishes to meet in a little over two years time will increase demand. consequently, there is a danger that demand will outstrip supply, with the result that fuel prices for those marine sectors that already use low sulphur content fuels, such as our fishing industry, will be further squeezed, thus adding to the pressures faced by that sector. we should be wary of unintended consequences.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, claude turmes. the gloom-mongers said we would never reach agreement on this directive, but, thanks to his great skill and determination, we did. that was in june. now we must move on and look ahead at what steps are necessary to make sure the energy efficiency directive is properly implemented and achieves its goal. first there is the gap. according to the commission, the text of the eed will achieve about 15% of the 20%. on top of that, the proposed measures on boilers and on cars and fans will take us to 17%. but, as we have heard, the boilers measure is still under discussion in the council, and the cars and vans legislation has not yet come to parliament yet. so there is important work to do, and do ambitiously. i am anxiously awaiting the promised additional measures to close the remaining gap of 3%. commissioner, can we have them this autumn please? second, there is implementation. the directive calls for all requirements to be implemented by 2014. that is only six years before 2020. i hope that lessons have been learned from the energy services directive. the commission will need to monitor member states closely and provide a guiding hand if necessary. finally, regarding the 2050 national roadmaps, this could be the most effective measure in the directive if it is carried out seriously. to reach 2050 greenhouse gas reduction targets, the existing building stock needs to use 80% less energy than today. the national roadmaps must not be vague. they must set out a clear path for that reduction. energy efficiency is a key part of economic efficiency and, in terms of the economy, we are all in this together. we cannot afford slackers. every country’s business is everybody’s business. i hope the commissioner will now commit to the task of making sure that the directive is 100% implemented.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last night when i was writing this speech we had a power cut. it saved a lot of energy but my productivity went to zero – and this sort of sums up the energy efficiency debate: we need to have stable energy (no power cuts) and to use less energy because we cannot afford our ever-increasing fuel bills, but we need to do this without reducing productivity and helping growth at the same time. i support the ambition of energy savings, and i know that we need to do this without also forcing companies to simply relocate outside the eu. i have also fought for member states to have the flexibility to introduce savings schemes which suit their own local markets. we also need to be aware that there is no bottomless bank account and to make sure we take cost-effective measures first. the commission has said that it supports energy savings, but now another part of the commission has announced that the uk cannot keep its low vat levels for energy efficiency installations. so it is fine to give tax incentives to fuel wasters but not to fuel savers. that is ridiculous. i agree with this directive – we have got it in the right place – but let us now turn our energy to fighting this crazy tax decision.
mr president, the commissioner referred to the council’s deadline of the end of 2014. the internal energy market is a key priority in the commission’s energy 2020 strategy and in the roadmap 2050. earlier this year the commission sent reasoned opinions to 17 member states for failure to implement the third energy package. i would like to ask when the commission intends to bring infringement proceedings. if the third package is about unbundling supply from transmission, will there be a fourth package on physical interconnection of the internal energy market? would the commission at least guarantee that most of the eur 9 billion foreseen for the energy schemes in the connecting europe facility – if we get it – will be spent on electricity interconnection rather than on gas pipeline investments to the benefit of companies who made a combined profit of usd 180 billion last year?
madam president, i am grateful to the commissioner for his answer and his recognition that it is only through interconnection that the market can properly work. of course, interconnection also creates jobs in the european union because we are the major – if not the only – manufacturers of the high-voltage direct current cables which are needed for such interconnection. however, would the commissioner not agree that it is, in a sense, crazy that we are spending millions of euros on solar power in germany, belgium and the united kingdom and very little in southern europe, where there is actually rather more sunlight? therefore, can we expect the commission to come forward with a europe-wide renewables support scheme so that we can do exactly what he was talking about, namely connect malta and italy, with all of the potential that they have, for the generation of electricity from renewable energy?
colleagues, can i first of all share the joy at the liberation from the ethiopian authorities of two swedish journalists, johan persson and martin schibbye, who have been pardoned together with others, and safely reached sweden during the night. i think ms corazza bildt has something to say about that.
i have received from the s&d group requests for appointment to committees. the list of these requests will be published in the minutes of this sitting. unless objections are raised before the approval of the minutes the appointments will be deemed to have been approved. they are: to the committee on foreign affairs, sophocles sophocleus, and to the committee on security and defence, sophocles sophocleus. we have a point of order from mr hartong.
thank you for that, mr hartong. it is not on our agenda but i think it would be appropriate for the house to rise in memory of the victims of 9/11. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, no business needs to be told to look for energy efficiency, nor does any householder need to be told to keep his bills down. there is a wonderful mechanism for driving energy efficiency already and it is called the market. what we are doing in this house when we talk about energy efficiency is precisely the opposite. we are intervening through subsidies and other market distortions, thereby creating not only a financial crisis but an energy crisis because we are intervening in the natural flow of supply and demand. why are we doing it? not in response to an identified crisis but in order to flaunt our virtue. the difficulty as so often is that meps cannot resist meddling, cannot resist scratching at something in order to show how very concerned they are. i have observed before that shakespeare has something to say about every subject, including meps who cannot help legislating in energy policy: ‘what’s the matter, you dissentious rogues, that, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, make yourselves scabs?’.
mr president, i welcome the fact that in looking at the whole debate on climate change and energy production, we are also looking at energy efficiency. quite often this is the forgotten element of this whole debate – this wider debate – on climate change and alternative sources of energy. we do need to incentivise businesses, customers and others towards energy efficiency. that is absolutely right. but, as my colleague said previously, do we need to do this through taxpayer subsidy? do we need to do it in this way or should we rely on the crucial elements of the market which will drive people naturally towards this? we should be encouraging insulation, smart metering and regeneration technologies but, at the same time, we should not meddle where it causes more problems. the eu is telling the british government that it has to increase its vat on insulation products. so, while on the one hand we are discussing energy efficiency and claiming that we are promoting energy efficiency, by what we actually do through taxation policy we are reducing the incentives for energy efficiency.
mr president, cooperation and coordination in energy efficiency policies could actually bring added value, provided they are not binding on the member states. but this is an area where you could bring financial savings to the consumer by making things cheaper. i agree with mr hannan that the market is important. there would be less environmental pollution, with the emission of certain toxic noxious gases, if the power stations could be more efficient. there could also be fewer greenhouse gas emissions, but i also think that there is a danger sometimes of being overreactive, as with the abolition of the incandescent light bulb. the imposition of mandatory cfl light bulbs is something that irritated me no end. they cannot be dimmed, so you cannot make them more efficient. they give off uv light, which potentially causes cancer in people with certain conditions of the skin, and they release toxic mercury into the environment. this was like using a sledge-hammer to crack a nut, because you could have actually used the market – made them cheap and available – and people would therefore have switched to them on a voluntary basis. but to make it mandatory was something that made the eu very unpopular in my constituency of london.
mr president, it was reported over the summer that the united kingdom was drawing up contingency plans to close its borders in the event of a refugee crisis caused by a sudden collapse of the single currency. journalists are addicted to this story; they deal in drama so they love the idea that the crisis has to be presented as a choice between some cataclysmic fall and a solution. but i suggest that there is a third option. what if people simply carry on becoming gradually poorer? this is not some fanciful theory of mine, indeed it has already started. our constituents are worse off than they were a year ago; they were worse off then than the year before. we could be in for years and years of progressive dilapidation. when you go to the southern countries in the euro zone, the signs are that much clearer. it need not be a catastrophe. it need not be the end of atlantis. it could simply be the end of atlas shrugged: a shabby, miserable, demoralising slide into darkness. this is the way the west ends. not with a bang, but with a whimper.
mr president, one of the constant criticisms we have of eu policies is that, whatever the problem, the solution always tends to be more europe. when we look at an issue, such as the highly emotive one of asylum, an issue where people facing persecution seek refuge in our lands, why are we playing politics and continuing this one-size-fits-all idea and playing with people’s lives? we should look at and understand the individual policies of individual governments. governments themselves and local communities have to consider the impact of new people coming into the country on existing community cohesion, including the impact on existing immigrant communities. so, when the uk government, or any other elected government, says that it has a policy and that it has decided on what is a sustainable number of people to allow in, considering the impact on local communities, it should be allowed to continue that policy and should certainly not be told by the eu, or any other body, that it should allow more room. we should depend on the wise decisions of the national elected governments.
mr president, just before the vote my friend and colleague chris davies said that i had to read niall ferguson’s book ‘civilisations’. it is actually a book i had already read, and the thesis in it is not especially new. the idea that europe flourished because it was a diverse, competing plurality of states rather than a single empire on the oriental model has been well-rehearsed by historians, by alan macfarlane, by paul kennedy, by eric jones, indeed by adam smith. it is a pretty old theory. or, if you think i am being too anglocentric about this, also by montesquieu and tocqueville, both of whom understood that the stasis inherent in uniformity, as it existed in the great ancient monarchies, is bad for growth and bad ultimately, therefore, for living standards. now i am sure you can tell where i am going with this argument. in trying to get on top of wars, the founders of the european union also smothered the competition, the diversity, that had been the basis of the greatness of european civilisation. our generation is living through a tragic reversal whereby just as china and india learned the virtues of the dispersal of power, europe is going down this ming, mogul, and ottoman road towards uniformity, taxation and decline. our mistake and our tragedy.
thank you, mr hannan. your disquisitions get ever more elaborate.
mr president, it is important, when we look at the idea of standards, that we understand what we are trying to achieve. of course it is often good for the consumer, and often good for industry, to be able to have the certainty to produce the standards that others can work towards. but with standards there is also the other side of the issue: what does it do to innovation? how do we come up with those standards? we have to be wary of those who lobby loudest for their particular standards in order to stifle the competition and to crowd others out of the marketplace. we have to be careful of the rent-seeking behind this. we also have to be careful that we are not so keen on our own standards that, when it comes to global agreements and trade practices, one man’s standard becomes another’s non-tariff barrier or technical barrier. surely the best way for most of these products to be developed is to allow the market to provide the standards and then allow the best standards to win out. then the bodies can agree after negotiation on the best standard, rather than imposing it too early and crowding out the players that you do not want to flourish.
mr president, as you so aptly put it, this report concerns cows. ‘how can he get wisdom that holdeth the plough, and that glorieth in the goad, that driveth oxen, and is occupied in their labours, and whose talk is of bullocks? he giveth his mind to make furrows; and is diligent to give the kine fodder’. it is perhaps appropriate that i pause at this stage and thank the interpreters who have been very patient with my flights into jacobean english over many years. what a tragedy that now the descendant of that honest man giveth his mind to fill in forms and is diligent to meet the latest directives coming out of the common agricultural policy. as the rural year comes to revolve around bureaucracy rather than the natural seasons, we have seen not just a rise in prices for consumers and a rise in taxes to sustain the system but also, bizarrely, a depreciation of output in the countryside. a system designed to help stimulate food production has ended up damaging both the farmer and the consumer. here you have a microcosm. what is wrong with state control? the sooner we get out of the common agricultural policy and design a policy tailored to meet the needs of our countryside, the better for all concerned.
was that the bible? the king james version?
mr president, as a medical doctor i support these measures strongly. in 2010 it was decided that eu rules governing pharmacovigilance had to be revised and a stress test was carried out on the legislation which demonstrated weaknesses in the system, which now need addressing. these current proposed changes aim to close dangerous loopholes to protect our patients in europe. in particular they seek to meet the need for an automatic, urgent eu-wide procedure in cases where a member state or the commission considers that serious adverse side effects have occurred and therefore there is a need to prohibit the supply of a particular medicine. they also seek to clarify the transparency obligations on pharmaceutical companies, namely that companies are obliged to inform the european medicines agency, which is a very successful agency based in my own region of london, when a medicinal product is deemed to be harmful and this agency is then in turn obliged to inform all member states without undue delay. so pharmacovigilance is a good thing and it is something which can be done well at eu level.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. it is my view that, given the harmful effects of sulphur dioxide emissions, not only to respiratory health in humans but also to the environment, the sulphur content of marine fuels must continue to be closely monitored at eu level. whilst various measures have already been taken internationally to reduce the sulphur content for marine fuels, for instance those done through the imo, the new directive goes further by ensuring that the commission is able to assess the impact of enforcing the 0.1% limit for all eu waters, as well as committing to a reduction of the current 4.5% limit outside eu secas to only 0.5% by 2020. furthermore, the new directive now imposes fines on those who surpass the limits. i believe that this is indeed a positive step forward and it is in keeping with my party’s environmental policy to protect the environment for future generations and to improve our own quality of life and well-being.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, while acknowledging the efforts of the rapporteur to take a balanced line, the alde group felt obliged to abstain in the final vote today due to conservative and religious views dominating the final report to the detriment of patients who face shortages of tissues and cells in many member states. currently in many member states there are too few donors and too many people waiting for tissues and cells, particularly spinal marrow, gametes, cornea and skin. this report was an ideal opportunity to address this serious health problem, but the focus on other issues means it has sadly fallen short in this respect. a number of provisions were adopted today that threaten the already insufficient supply of tissues and cells in many member states, including calling on member sates to require that donors be anonymous except in the case of a donation from a living person to a relative, thus potentially preventing, for example, an eu citizen from choosing to donate to a friend in need. the alde group does not see the need to further restrict donation rules when we have shortages of tissues and cells in over half the member states. another point was calling on member states to promote only public cord blood banks, thus ignoring the existence of well regulated private cord blood banks in some member states, awareness of which should also be promoted in the interests of promoting the donation of cord blood for the benefit of patients. as regards the call for european standards and requirements for private stem cell banks but not for public cell banks, the alde group believes that all stem cell banks should be required to meet the same high standards of safety and quality and that imposing higher standards only on private banks could further hinder access to much-needed tissues and cells. calling for the commission to revise regulation (ec) no 1394/2007 to guarantee the application of the principle of unpaid donation, the alde group believes that to avoid undermining the quality and safety of donated tissues and cells it is vital to encourage various models of donation developed by both public and private sectors and to ensure reasonable reimbursement of donors. this vote does not send the right message to scientists or patients.
mr president, as a doctor i am particularly enthusiastic about the proposals to break down the barriers to sharing donor registries across the european union, which will of course contribute to the fight against cancer and other life-threatening diseases. i am also pleased with the emphasis placed by the rapporteur – who happens to be my london colleague marina yannakoudakis – on the ethics of donation, taking the view that the human body should not be a source of financial gain. the report thus rightly rejects the practice of an open market for tissues and cells, but importantly, it goes on to stress that donors across the union deserve fair and reasonable compensation for their efforts. there is also emphasis on the requirement for greater traceability and transparency in the donation process across the eu. the report equally encourages member states to build on existing examples of best practice in those countries, for example the renowned cord blood collection scheme in the uk run by nhs blood and transplant and the famous anthony nolan trust. i am also pleased to say that the final report crucially resisted calls for a ban on private storage clinics anywhere in the european union.
mr president, we need more jobs and we need greener energy. i hope the green economy can help drive economic growth. we must ensure that both men and women benefit from this growth. but what does this report call for? an improvement in women’s transport opportunities, among other things. what nonsense. i do not see women abandoned on the streets of strasbourg, forsaken by men-only buses and trams. perhaps the rapporteur thinks that women need improved transport because, according to the report, women do not affect the environment in the same way as men. again, what nonsense. time after time, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality tries to turn everything into a feminist issue. this is bad for women and it hurts the reputation of both the committee and the eu. i call on my fellow members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality to stop the nonsense once and for all. not everything is a male plot to do a woman down.
mr president, this report states that gender stereotypes are impeding women from realising their full potential. it is possible for women to be ceos, brain surgeons, concert pianists and even meps. it is also possible for women to stay at home and raise a family, perhaps picking up a part-time job in the service sector along the way. this report looks down its nose at the service industry and insults all the women and men who work in this sector. this report also suggests that women are treated differently by employers because they are more likely to interrupt their careers in order to have children. well, regrettably, this may be true to an extent. if it is true, though, why does the rapporteur call for the council to unblock the maternity leave directive? twenty weeks’ fully paid compulsory leave will reduce young women’s chances of getting a job.
in writing. − i regret that in denmark 981 workers have been made redundant with some 550 targeted for assistance in relation to the odense steel shipyard and in four suppliers and downstream producers related to the primary enterprise. redundancy is challenging on any individual and their family and rising unemployment is changing the face of society and breeding levels of poverty unacceptable in 21st century europe. yet it is eu fiscal policy, including austerity demands and the inept handling of the euro crisis that is part author of this script. it is thus suspect that while with one hand brussels continues to undermine and weaken national economies through flawed single currency policy, they are with the other willing to provide hand outs to those stricken by its effects. it should be the priority and prerogative of national governments, with the optional aid of sympathetic third countries, to deal with the major structural challenges many countries are currently facing in the wake of global financial crisis. to continue to endorse the mobilisation of the adjustment fund is to permit the perpetuation of brussels undermining national economies.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. denmark argues that shipyards in europe over the past decades have been losing substantial market shares to asia. assisting workers impacted by the closure of the odense steel shipyard therefore falls well within its remit.
in writing. − i regret that in spain 528 workers have been made redundant by 323 construction firms. redundancy is challenging for any individual and their family, and rising unemployment is changing the face of society in spain and breeding levels of poverty that are totally unacceptable in 21st-century europe. yet it is eu fiscal policy, including austerity demands and the inept handling of the euro crisis, that is part-author of this script. it is thus suspect that while on the one hand brussels continues to undermine and weaken the spanish economy through flawed single currency policy, it is on the other hand willing to provide hand-outs to those stricken by its effects. in essence, policy making in brussels is crushing domestic ability to provide pastoral care for its peoples, in terms of jobs, social provisions and welfare, yet allows the eu to step in to subsume these roles. it should be the priority and prerogative of national governments, with the optional aid of sympathetic third countries, to deal with the major structural challenges many countries are currently facing in the wake of global financial crisis. to continue to endorse the mobilisation of the adjustment fund is to permit the perpetuation of brussels’ undermining of national economies.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the commission concluded that the application meets the conditions for deploying the egf. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis. spanish authorities argue that the construction sector has been severely affected by the crisis. loans to the construction sector and to individuals have been drastically reduced and the demand for new houses has decreased due to declining consumer confidence and the lack of liquidity. the commission has recognised in its economic recovery plan that the construction industry in the eu had seen demand plummet as a result of the crisis. the arguments presented in previous cases concerning the construction of buildings sector, and in which the redundancies were a direct result of the crisis, remain valid. the territory concerned by the redundancies is the autonomous community of aragón.
in writing. − this fund costs the taxpayer eur 500 million every year. this eur 500 million comes from our member states and, more importantly, our constituents. while some of the applications to this fund may be worthy, more could be achieved if this money were returned to the member states. the process for this fund is too bureaucratic. a company has to submit an application to the national government, which then in turn applies to the commission, which judges whether the application is worthy or not. if it is deemed worthy, the commission submits the application to the budgetary authority, and then finally we are required to vote on something we are far, far removed from. national governments and local authorities are better placed to decide on whether they need to use such funds, and how they should be applied. they are also accountable to their citizens for the taxes they levy to pay for such expenditure. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − the proposals lean towards increasingly centralised and punitive measures that would essentially burden the taxpayer, indirectly and directly, to fund energy efficiency targets stipulated by the eu. while energy efficiency is paramount in the light of decreasing resources and increasing fuel prices, with energy deficit seeing many european countries depend upon fuel importation that undermines and weakens national economies, creating a pan-european policy is only likely to backfire and see the burden of cost passed onto the public via legislation that fails to appreciate and accommodate specifics of particular industries or regions. costs enforced upon utilities companies will simply be passed down to the consumer, as will the results from energy audits on large enterprises if not handled effectively. while the rapporteur acknowledges the need to protect consumers against unjustified price rises, and the role of local governance in actuating energy efficiency, these principles stand in direct contradiction to the proposition of centralised targets and to the identification that ‘levies or obligations on all customers or retailers can raise substantial and constant funding’. i would not trust brussels to forge a centralised energy efficiency strategy that would avoid deep and divisive consequences.
in writing. − i voted for this report and agree with the rapporteur that a common eu approach is necessary to reinforce energy savings, energy efficiency and innovation, achieve economies of scale and reduce the bureaucratic burden in all member states. i agree also that an eu efficiency policy will build on existing and well-functioning regional and national policies while leaving the necessary flexibility to take account of local and national specificities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which will implement a number of significant energy-saving measures. thanks to this directive, energy consumption will be reduced by 15%, representing an improvement on current legislation under which a reduction of only 9% would be possible. not only will this resolution ensure that energy efficiency targets are more likely to be met, it will also boost jobs and economic growth in member states, with the mandatory renovation of 3% of central government buildings set to create millions of jobs all over europe. this resolution, which has my full support, will also help to reduce energy costs for citizens. this is particularly important at a time when many are going without heating or electricity owing to the effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. − the directive will set binding measures to ensure we are sticking to our 2011 energy efficiency plan, which will enable the eu to reduce energy consumption by 15% by 2020, bringing us closer to our 20% target. better energy efficiency in the eu will help to lower both emissions and the cost of energy for consumers, as well as reducing the eu's reliance on foreign imports of gas and oil. ensuring that 3% of central government buildings will have to be renovated every year will not only improve the energy efficiency of those buildings but also help to boost the construction industry and create jobs. the directive also places an obligation on energy companies to make savings of 1.5% annually until 2020. the final directive did not go as far as we socialists and democrats would have liked – for example we were pushing for annual renovation targets on all public buildings – but is nevertheless a good start.
in writing. − energy efficiency is important, not least because our citizens are facing rising power bills. i supported this report because ultimately it was balanced and did not introduce burdensome requirements on business which would have driven companies out of the eu and cost jobs. we need incentives to encourage more energy efficiency not draconian penalties. this is why i am aghast at the commission’s decision to threaten the uk with legal action in the european court of justice (ecj) over reduced vat on energy-saving materials. vat was reduced to 5% on energy efficiency products in the uk in order to tackle fuel poverty and reduce carbon emissions. this is exactly the kind of spur we need to encourage the installation of energy efficiency measures such as double-glazing or loft insulation. the commission’s challenge is not only muddle-headed, but also mistaken: the reduced vat rate is beyond the scope of the eu’s vat directive. if the eu really wishes to embrace energy efficiency, it should – rather than penalise britain – encourage other member states to introduce similar schemes.
in writing. − i followed the rapporteur's recommendation on the waiver of mr walesa's immunity.
in writing. − i followed the rapporteur's proposal on the waiver of brigit collin-langen’s immunity.
in writing. − whilst ukip stands against the illegal transportation and detention of prisoners by third countries, we cannot vote in favour of this report, as to do so would endorse in numerous ways the authority of the eu in foreign affairs and human rights, where such powers should not be granted. it also would lead to general oversight of matters by the eu if followed through in its entirety. it is the prerogative of national judicial authorities to open independent inquiries into alleged cia secret detention sites and flight connections and conduct criminal investigations into such matters, but it should not be within the scope of the eu to demand the disclosure of the findings or command that investigations take place.
in writing. − the ecr believe that human rights are universal for all and that torture is unacceptable in all circumstances. however, whilst we support the full and independent inquiry into the alleged involvement of member states in the detention and transportation of prisoners in european countries by the cia, we believe that it is for member states to first carry out their own investigations before judgment is made by the european union or the european parliament. equally, we do not believe that it is for the european union to make recommendations on the functioning of member states’ security services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which rightly stresses the need to provide guarantees in order to avoid, in the future, any infringement of fundamental rights when anti-terrorism policies are implemented.
in writing. − this report addresses the alleged involvement of some eu member states in the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia. i voted against the report as i do not agree with the thrust of the text, including calls for greater involvement of eu institutions in national investigations, and the opportunity it provides to snipe at our closest ally, the united states. i fully believe that countries should respect the international body of law to which they are a member. however, calls for the european council to issue declarations; hold hearings with so-called ‘eu security agencies’; and ‘to give its full support to the truth-finding and accountability processes in the member states by formally addressing the issue at jha meetings, sharing all information, [and] providing assistance to inquiries’ are wholly misplaced. both counter-terrorism policy and the oversight of security services, are – and should remain – strictly a matter for national authorities, not the eu.
in writing. − i supported report a7-0248/2012 on enhanced intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum, because it contains important critique of the current eu asylum system and stresses the need for change. however, my vote in favour of the report should not be seen as support to the report’s call for further harmonisation at eu level within the field of asylum.
in writing. − the prospect of enhancing what is confusingly called intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum is essentially a move to centralise decision-making on the placement of asylum seekers which contravenes domestic prerogative on immigration and settlement policy. while it is essential all countries play their part in the accommodation of genuine asylum seekers and the international community must work together to protect vulnerable persons, i greatly fear placing the power to relocate asylum seekers into the hands of the european union. the forging of tighter cooperation between countries on the management of refugees should happen between national governments or by international supranational bodies and charities that are already endorsed to deal with such matters. the establishment of a permanent intra-eu relocation mechanism would create a precedent allowing the european commission to essentially determine who lives where, representing a gross infringement upon sovereignty. while certain countries are under greater pressures than others to accommodate asylum seekers and there is sense in promoting burden-sharing between nations, the processing of applications for residency must continue to be done solely at member state level and should never become the preserve of the unelected european commission.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that establishing a solidarity framework will not absolve member states from complying with their international as well as their eu obligations in terms of asylum, but that rather it will equip the ceas with specific instruments and procedures aimed at supporting and assisting those member states facing disproportionate pressures and costs in the field of asylum, mainly due to their geographical or demographical situation. in other words, a comprehensive solidarity framework wherein member states would be assisted to improve the quality of their asylum systems in order to ensure the full respect of asylum seekers’ rights would ensure by the same token the proper implementation of the asylum acquis and therefore the very functioning of the ceas.
in writing. − i voted against the triantaphyllides report on eu ‘solidarity’ on asylum. the report is another mistaken step taken by brussels in the direction of setting up a common european asylum system. i do not support such a system, which is a further step in empowering the eu, would make it more difficult for the uk to refuse bogus asylum claims, and lead to further abuse of the asylum system. i have always said that immigration and asylum policy must remain a uk government competency, and i strongly oppose any move towards further eu interference, which will only make matters worse.
in writing. − the proposal to standardise goods and services across the eu equates to a raft of regulation that would certainly impact on small businesses in ways that is unprecedented. while certain areas of standardisation, such as creating standard fit phone chargers, may seem logical, bearing in mind the difference between the three-pin uk socket and common european two-pin socket, it becomes apparent that even what may appear rational standardisation would face many hurdles that would prove to be both costly and almost impossible to enforce. it also opens up other sectors to regulation that do not need to come under the remit of such a broad-reaching effort to centralise all services and manufacturing under one european umbrella jurisdiction.
in writing. − i welcome this report and the commission's proposal to review the european standardisation system taking due account of parliament's request for a revision aimed at preserving the many successful elements of the system, remedying its deficiencies and striking the right balance between the national, european and international dimensions.
in writing. − this new regulation sets the rules for cooperation between national and european standardisation bodies and the european commission. this will ensure clarity and help avoid administrative problems with a view to allowing firms to get quicker access to standard solutions to technical problems. this modernisation in the development process for eu standards will enable firms to cut production costs. it will help in the spread of best practice, and it will also boost competitiveness and drive growth. i fully support this regulation as voted by the european parliament, and i am especially pleased that small firms, representatives of consumers, environmental and civil society bodies will now be consulted during the development process.
in writing. − it is essential bovine eid is introduced on a voluntary basis and is not, as some members of this parliament urge, subject to a report in five years to consider compulsory eid. the uk cattle id system works perfectly well, so the choice to upgrade should be an individual decision based upon working preferences. it should be made without fear of penalty under cross compliance if equipment is subject to error. sheep tagging brought a host of problems that persecuted british farmers whose equipment was especially vulnerable to the elements. cattle in the uk are often out to grass for at least six months, so tag loss is inevitable. there is crisis in the dairy industry while the beef market is only just seeing a small recovery after years of being in the red. both are subject to pressures from rising feed costs and cheaper foreign imports and would suffer from any punitive measures levied by the commission.
in writing. − rules brought in during 2010 require all sheep farmers to electronically tag their sheep. as a consequence, they face financial penalties if they do not achieve 100% accuracy of recording. yet, the technology at their disposal is not yet 100% accurate. this situation is completely unacceptable. the commission now wishes to extend electronic identification to bovine animals. however, it seems to have learned from the negative experience of sheep farmers, and has chosen to introduce bovine identification on a voluntary basis. this is a far more pragmatic approach, allowing all stakeholders to benefit, and as such i can support this measure. given the shambles surrounding the electronic identification of sheep, and the considerable financial impact on farmers, it is imperative that, whilst adhering to the agreed eu technical standards, member states have control over its introduction to bovine animals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. food safety and traceability are extremely important issues for the general public.
in writing. − following the failure of pharmacovigilance rules to prevent a french drug causing unnecessary deaths, there is a clear case for toughening up these rules and ending existing shortcomings. these unfortunate deaths could have been avoided. this report helps close loopholes by improving transparency rules for companies, allowing post-authorisation safety studies, and introducing automatic urgent procedures for known risky medicines. i support this report and first reading agreement with the council which will help save lives in the future and make our pharmaceutical market safer for all consumers.
in writing. − this amendment to the pharmacovigilance directive is urgent in light of the mediator case in france. mediator was a medicine made by the french company servier and licensed in a number of eu countries through national procedures (france, portugal, luxembourg, greece, italy and spain) for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. its main active ingredient was benfluorex, and as early as 1999 the first adr (adverse reaction) reports appeared indicating concerns about possible heart valve disorders. in both the usa and the eu, similar anorectic agents - dexfenfluramine and fenfluramine - were taken off the market in the late 1990s. despite this, mediator was widely prescribed in europe, and particularly in france. by 2009, when the drug was finally withdrawn from the market, an estimated five million people had been prescribed the medicine, and it was one of the top 50 most-prescribed medicines in france. evidence suggests it had been prescribed not only to diabetics, but more widely as a general appetite suppressant. estimates of the number of deaths related to mediator vary from 500 to 2000.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote as, while it is essential to protect the population from the dangers of medicines and treatments deemed to have dangerous side effects, it is not in my opinion an area in which the eu should have jurisdiction. already in the uk we have bodies such as nice to evaluate and test products with any sort of pharmaceutical or pharmacological usage before they are permitted into mainstream medicine. what we need is greater national vigilance against unauthorised and unknown drugs and access to unapproved products on the black market. some of the eu’s proposals for pharmacovigilence could result in a rise in scaremongering that may in turn result in patients not accessing drugs that would otherwise be highly beneficial on the grounds of an unqualified threat. we have already seen the results of parents denying their children vital immunisation due to inconclusive links with autism that were blown out of proportion by the media. there is a real threat that unsubstantiated rumours in one country could result in life-saving medicine being withdrawn across europe under such legislation.
in writing. − i support the general thrust of the commission proposals, which further strengthen the pharmacovigilance system at eu level.
in writing. − the laws we voted on today will strengthen the existing legislation in terms of patient safety, ensuring that new drugs are properly monitored for unexpected side-effects. pharmaceutical companies will have to disclose when they withdraw products due to safety reasons and concerns about drug safety will trigger an automatic investigation by european regulators, instead of being left to the discretion of individual national regulators. this will ensure that serious risks to patient health are picked up on and dealt with early, and that patients across the eu can expect the same level of protection. the laws will also mean that medicines that are still being monitored for safety will have to carry a black ‘warning’ symbol on the packaging and on the information leaflet, so that patients are properly informed about the safety of their medication. in the cases of thalidomide or the diabetes drug mediator in france, serious side-effects were not picked up on for years, leading to unnecessary suffering for thousands. this legislation will ensure that medicines are monitored and health risks picked up on and addressed long before another such tragedy happens.
in writing. − the proposals put forward are rather heavy-handed without determining the real impact on the shipping industry and without the proposition of a real alternative. while it is an important area to monitor and control i fear the consequences of a lack of a thorough enough assessment prior to the enforcement of targets.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the main purpose of the proposal is to implement the upper limits agreed in the international maritime organisation (imo) in 2008 on the sulphur content of marine fuels. air pollutants from ships are estimated at present to cause some 50 000 premature deaths per year in europe.
in writing. − this legislation enshrines in eu law an international agreement that the uk has already signed up to as part of the international maritime organisation. air pollution from shipping can reach far inland and is estimated to cause 50 000 premature deaths a year across the eu. the legislation will set binding limits on the sulphur content of fuels used in the maritime industry, bringing it down from 4.5% to 0.5% in all eu waters and leading to a significant reduction in sulphur emissions from ships. as a result, we should see an improvement in air quality across the uk, and the eu as a whole, and a reduction in respiratory illnesses, heart disease and other health problems. there will therefore be significant environmental and health benefits to this legislation.
in writing. − this report aims to reform the aspect of the common agricultural policy relating to vine growers for the period 2014 - 2020. the current system, established in 2007, allows member states to grant decoupled aid to vine growers under the single payment scheme. this new proposal can be commended in its attempts to streamline the current wine regime through small-scale simplification of the cap and by reducing the administrative burden. as part of the uk government cap health check in 2008, the uk has already agreed to allocate payments to vine growers through the single payment scheme, so i can therefore support this proposal at eu level.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the commission’s proposal aims at amending article 103o of the single cmo regulation (1234/2007) which provides for a possibility for the member states to grant decoupled aid to vine growers under the single payment scheme (sps) as part of their national vine growers’ programmes.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. the internal market information system (imi) has been in use since 2008 as a free service to member states to improve the exchange of information within the internal market. the system has proved itself as a fast and secure means for cross-border information exchange and administrative cooperation with currently over 6 000 registered authorities in all the eu member states and the eea countries.
in writing. − i can agree with this proposal insofar that unintended non-taxation, double taxation, tax fraud and abuse with respect to the collection of tax on interest and royalty payments should be avoided at national level. however, i cannot agree to the lack of clarity between the definitions of tax avoidance and tax evasion, two completely different concepts, one being prudent and the other being criminal. i also strongly oppose the call for implementation of a minimum rate of corporate tax to be applied across the european union. this is completely unacceptable and would be in breach of member state fiscal autonomy. despite the good work of our rapporteur, i cannot support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution but against amendment 2, part 2, which calls for the introduction of an eu minimum corporate tax rate.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which makes it clear that a modern trade policy has to take other policy areas, from human rights to industrial policy, into account for an integrated approach to trade, foreign, development, social and environmental policies and has to be based on reciprocal access to the markets. it emphasises in particular the role that an appropriate use of trade policy can play in the fight against poverty outside the eu and, in the specific cases of neighbouring countries, ensuring stability at the eu’s borders. robust international trade, investment and market integration are key drivers therefore of strong sustainable and balanced growth. the resolution stresses the importance of open markets and a fair, strong, rules-based trading system and insists on the need for protectionist measures to be refrained from worldwide as a basic condition for fair competition. in this context the resolution highlights the importance of pursuing bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral efforts that are consistent and supportive of the wto framework.
in writing. − the document put forward is non-legislative and therefore unnecessary, and it is in my party’s interests to discourage the dissemination of this kind of material from the eu which also serves to permit the eu to encroach on highly sensitive areas wrought with moral and social implications.
in writing. − i welcome this report which analyses current eu trends in the field of voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells and makes recommendations to improve the quality of life of people across europe and to increase the flow of donations between member states. particular attention is drawn to boosting stem cell and cord blood reserves in member states and harnessing stem cell therapies to treat diseases successfully.
in writing. − this is a prime example of european union bumf that essentially paves the way for more eu targets, more eu research, more eu money spent on more eu rules for reasons that are neither pressing nor realistically relevant. it ticks two of the eu’s favourite boxes; green issues and gender equality. essentially such non-essential money and time-wasting efforts simply keep the bureaucrats employed and well oiled with a sense of raison d’être, rather than contributing anything of any value to europe as a whole, despite using up taxpayer’s money and proposing a raft of measures that are likely to be of less value than the paper on which they are printed.
in writing. − once again, the eu attempts to add a gender perspective to an issue that is not gender-related. this report on women in the green economy includes a number of condescending proposals, which include the provision of specific training courses for women who wish to work in green jobs and the improvement of public transport with the specific aim of enabling women to travel more easily. not only does this report over-generalise the issue of the green economy, but it includes a number of areas that should be the exclusive responsibility of member states to decide, such as setting targets and quotas for the management boards of companies in the green economy. furthermore it calls for better access to healthcare and education, which are completely unrelated to the issue of the green economy and are not matters for the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which calls on the commission to be particularly aware that access to clean water is of major importance to girls and women in many parts of the world, as it is often their responsibility to fetch and carry water home; stresses that it is also important to retain female indigenous knowledge of local ecosystems.
in writing. − it is at times hard to argue against legislation supposedly promoting gender equality without facing a raft of criticism from people who would wish to label you sexist. however, i fully support women’s rights and believe the equal contribution made by women and men to society must never be overlooked or taken for granted. i also believe that more must be done to close the pay gap between the sexes. however, wasting time and money on reports such as these actually undermines the sex equality fight rather than aids it. the report rather dramatically reveals that women tend to be disproportionately represented in the flexible and part-time employment market. i assume, without needing to have spent hundreds of thousands on a think tank, that this may have something to do with pregnancy and childcare. all that the eu achieves in commissioning such reports is pointing out obvious differentiation between the sexes and then subsequently painting a portrait of women as martyrs, something which many forward-thinking feminists despise.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which argues that policies permitting better balancing of work and personal life will help trigger a substantial employment potential for women and will facilitate a better matching of women to available jobs and thus boost economic growth, employment and innovation; whereas, moreover, women in the services sector work mainly in areas such as retail and hotels, but do not yet work in higher positions.
in writing. − this report highlights the worrying situation for women in the service sector, especially in the current economic climate. the report, which i voted in favour of, highlights the need to ensure that migrant workers are entitled to basic human rights and fair labour conditions. i also support the report's call for member states and trade unions to develop job evaluation tools and also for measures to be introduced to reduce the gender pay gap, such as companies undertaking annual equal pay audits. assessing the impact of austerity measures on women in the service sector was also called for by the report. i hope that the commission will undertake this and also look at increasing the use of esf to fund projects to help to employ more women.
in writing. − whilst the situation in many countries of the eu relating to youth unemployment and falling education standards is indeed something that must be broached to forge an optimistic future for the next generation i do not think it within the eu’s mandate, particularly bearing in mind the devastating impact that brussels-borne austerity programmes have had upon growing rates of unemployment among 18-24 year olds. it is surely the focus of all national governments within the eu to target this developing scourge without feeling compelled to hand the european commission responsibility in social policy-making when the eu has such a poor track record and in fact has been the co-author of a great deal of recent social and economic upheaval.
in writing. − this report calls for education and training provision to be reconciled with the targets outlined in the europe 2020 growth strategy. whilst i agree on the need to improve education and training provision in order to encourage growth in member states and maintain competitiveness with education systems in booming economies such as the far east, i do not believe that the eu is the competent body to do so. education policy is an exclusive responsibility of member states, as stated in article 165 of the treaty, which recognises ‘the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems.’ as such, i cannot support the demands of this report for european frameworks. whilst some aspects of the report, such as encouraging language skills and improving mobility of students, can add value, it is not for the eu to be involved in education policy. this must remain a matter for member states.
in writing. − i supported this report and welcome the rapporteur’s statement that ‘there should be further research in to the idea of student grants at the pre-university stage of education. for many students across europe from poorer backgrounds, education becomes unaffordable for their family way before they get to university age. they feel pressurised by their financial situation in to leaving school early and getting a job. financial constraints make re-entering education and the secondary school level difficult as well. there have been schemes in many countries that sought to offer financial support directly to students from poorer backgrounds so that they can stay in school. it would be useful to do a study on the effectiveness of such schemes.’
in writing. − this report, which i have supported, highlights the need for member states to invest in education at all levels. a particular emphasis is placed on improving key skills, reducing the number of early school leavers, the modernisation of higher education, and developing strategies for lifelong learning. at a time when many countries have responded to the economic crisis by cutting their education budgets, this report rightly calls for member states to protect or increase their investment in education and training. in addition to this, the report supports the introduction of small-grants systems for pre-university students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, in order to encourage them to remain in education, thus improving social mobility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. with the imminent development of smart terminals, consumers will find it even easier to obtain direct access to audiovisual content via search engines. given the plethora of content, the concern is that the links given the highest ranking by referral sites, which are inevitably controlled by the american giants, will direct consumers to non-domestic and non-european sites or services.
rapporteur on the budget. − mr president, as the rapporteur i will concentrate on parliament’s budget and the budget of other sections. in parliament we have taken into account the letter sent by commissioner lewandowski earlier this year asking institutions to keep their administrative budget increase to 1.9%. earlier this year, this parliament agreed a 1.9% rise for 2013, excluding the extra costs of croatia, and in doing that we froze all the allowances of members again and we decided to cut our travel budget by 5%. we also put in place a number of other measures to make some savings. earlier in the year when we discussed our estimates report we made it clear that we would expect to find more savings in the autumn, the ultimate aim being a 1.9% increase for parliament’s budget, including the costs of croatia. i am delighted to say that most of the other groups and most of the other shadows have agreed with this line and i thank them for their cooperation. but in order to achieve that figure of 1.9% including croatia, we need to find another eur 9 million worth of savings in parliament’s budget and we are now looking at the possibilities for doing that. but when we do that, we will take into account that although we need to make savings, and it is important that we make those savings, we also need to make those savings without damaging the effectiveness of this parliament and the effectiveness of members of this parliament. that will be our aim. i also wanted to say a few words on the budget of other sections. i am pleased to say that most other institutions are also looking to come in with an increase of 1.9% including croatia and the 1.7% salary increase which is proposed. there are a few institutions which will have problems, particularly the court of justice which is seeing its workload increase by about 10% year on year. the european external action service is also making a case for an increase larger than 1.9% because they say they are a new institution and they have new responsibilities, particularly in the area of security. so i think that rather than have a blanket freeze, as the council is suggesting, we should look at each institution individually and see what their needs are before deciding what their increase should be and i would urge the council to do that as well. so overall this parliament and most of the institutions will come in at around the 1.9% figure suggested by the commission and i think that that is good news and i think that it does show that institutions in europe recognise the economic and financial circumstances we all face and that we are being responsible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, my impression is that systematic cooperation between member states is starting to work properly – a process which needs careful nurturing if the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is actually to blossom. but we also need to pick our projects with great care, and if cfsp is in search of a big-picture project on which to focus it should be in my view russia. we missed the chance, following the collapse of the soviet union, properly to engage the russians as a true partner in european integration. several false starts and bruised hopes have left our relations fraught and distrustful. whatever we think of mr putin, he is here to stay and russia is now inside the wto. so the union should use its leverage to open up russia to liberal democracy and to promote fundamental rights there. gazprom and tourism are not sufficiently broad foundations for building a stable and dynamic relationship which, should we accomplish it, is going to be of great benefit to world politics. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, does mr duff accept that, to quote him, the last ‘big picture project’ was the alliance against libya, and is he aware that in that alliance there were only six european nations, two of which were not even members of the european union? so to talk of a common foreign and security policy is just an illusion and a very costly one at that. do you accept any of that?
blue-card answer. – i accept that the treaty of lisbon grants us the powers and competences to grow clusters of core groups of member states to go further and faster in building up foreign security and indeed defence policies, and i see libya not only as a great success, but as a forerunner of a practice of reinforced cooperation which we ought to grow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the ecr group has consistently asserted that cfsp must always be subject to unanimity in the council. britain, for instance, is a major military power with a permanent seat in the un security council and must always, of course, retain sovereignty in its foreign policy. that said, we do recognise that the cfsp can play a value added role where member states’ interests converge, such as over iran, which is hell-bent on acquiring nuclear weapons and remains probably the greatest threat to global peace. the cfsp is also a useful platform engaging china’s emergence as a global power over issues like north korea and standing up to russia where necessary, for instance, over georgia or its support for syria in the current insurgency, or engaging within the quartet to further the middle east peace process. i happen to be the rapporteur for the horn of africa and again this is a region with failed states like somalia and new fragile states like south sudan and the issue of the emerging role of the african union. again, this is an area where the cfsp is a useful tool for the eu and its member states, to better project their national interests and promote democracy and human rights throughout the globe.
madam president, when i listen to baroness ashton extolling the great successes of the european external action service, i am reminded of the movie ‘forrest gump’, where a well-meaning but seriously challenged and naive young man finds himself at the centre of events. he was surrounded by the great and the good, but was never really sure of what was going on. we have seen the faltering and sometimes painful transition to democracy of the long-suffering peoples in the arab spring; the ongoing civil war in syria; fears over nuclear proliferation; the death of gaddafi; and the return of putin. these are challenging times in which we are seeing relationships and dynamics redefined. however, at a recent meeting with an exasperated diplomat from the middle east, he told me that he regarded the high representative as being more of a hindrance than a help. we all understand that baroness ashton drew the short straw. her role is that of a caretaker of an unformed entity. history is unlikely to remember her in any great detail, but she once found herself elevated to the british house of lords without ever receiving a single vote in any democratic election. as forrest gump pointed out so eloquently, life is like a box of chocolates and we will never know what comes next.
madam president, the vice-president/high representative and elmar brok deserve congratulations on making a lot out of very little. there is hardly an area of the world, apparently, where eu intervention is not seen as the most vital contribution and the solution to all problems. it is almost as if no other international organisation or government exists. the cfsp report’s favourite mantra is ‘human rights’. they are mentioned 43 times, as if they are some sort of unique prerogative of the european union. our friends are ignored or get scant mention. that great democracy and emerging power, india, is reduced to three lines in a report of 30 pages. another emerging power, turkey, gets similar treatment. no positive engagement, no mention of all the positive changes that have taken place, of the support it needs in dealing with the refugee influx from syria, or of the potentially key role it plays in the region. we see the old sore of a un security council seat reopened, and now the curious idea is raised of an eu-us transatlantic political council explicitly to run in parallel with nato. the world is moving on, while the eu seems to live in some sort of bubble. it needs radical change. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i am delighted to respond to that. i am a great supporter of human rights but it is not the be-all and end-all and it is not the be-all and end-all of what we are doing. our priorities at the moment should be economic resurgence and the security of our nations. these are where the priorities should be and in our dealings with foreign countries that is where we should put the priority, and by lecturing countries like india when we are trying to arrange a free trade agreement between the european union and india, all we do is create difficulties and problems over so-called human rights issues and inclusion issues and all these sorts of things, which is decidedly unhelpful. let us get our priorities right.
madam president, i also endorse president brok, in particular in what he said about the collaboration between national parliaments and the european parliament, which shows that europe’s common policy does not replace, but rather advances, our initial objectives. i welcome too what the high representative is doing more than 43 times a year on human rights, her appointment of the new special representative, her work, with our support, to end the death penalty for juveniles in thailand – as was achieved just yesterday – and her bringing forward of the concept of ‘education in a suitcase’ for the world’s seven million refugee children, which shows that children’s rights are human rights. i would ask the conservatives how human rights can be universal but not for all. i also welcome what the high representative said at the start of the debate about europe’s ‘tin hut’ in mogadishu. normally it is dictators who are ‘tin-pot’, but she demonstrates that european diplomacy has the agility, quite literally, of a ‘cat on a hot tin roof’. finally, and seriously, i ask the high representative once again what progress is being made towards an eu common position on referring syrian war crimes to the international criminal court? europe delayed the formal pursuit of justice in the former yugoslavia, in the democratic republic of congo and in sudan, and subsequently changed its mind. on syria the time for delay is gone.
madam president, there is reason to hope that the countries of europe, with their ancestral and cultural ties, have overcome their inherited rivalries and grievances. however, i do not see that as a legacy of the european union, but of an entirely understandable revulsion of the loss of life during two world wars and later conflicts. the emergence of common threats and challenges have led to a convergence of the interests of the nation states of europe, whether within or outside the borders of the eu. we are undergoing a neo-colonial challenge from third world immigration, our industries and our jobs are threatened by the emergent economies and our cultural values are threatened by aggressive religious predators. however, convergence does not mean congruence. our interests are not identical, we have distinct alliances, friendships and interests of both kinds that are attributable to ancestral and historical differences. a presumption of common interest where none exists will be unsuccessful and even counterproductive.
mr president, several months ago i raised the issue of journalists and media personnel being detained and their services being hacked by the syrian authorities to thwart information reaching the outside world. the pace of that has increased and it now encompasses many other professions as well. their numbers are well into the thousands. we have no knowledge about where these people are or how they are being kept. they are incommunicado. what steps are we, as a european union, taking to monitor and investigate this? it is quite clear that, as an international community, we are demonstrating a very limp-wristed approach. commissioner, do you have a single european leader who is willing to establish either a no-fly zone or to arm the free syrian army? if you do, who? if you do not, is it within the power of your office to encourage them to come to that position?
mr president, the methods used by the syrian government have been appalling and indefensible. however, this civil war is not a simple conflict between right and wrong. the ba’ath party is a secular party and had a reputation before the conflict for tolerance of religious minorities including christians. furthermore, the opposition includes jihadists with links to al-qaida, and what is more members of the syrian army captured by the free syrian army have been subjected to summary executions and torture. we must not think that a government of syria based on the opposition will be democratic, observant of human rights and the rule of law. when the west in future asks itself whether or not a regime should be removed and replaced, it should ask itself a second question: replaced by what or by whom? and would it be an improvement? we might then ask a third question, which countries and interest groups stood to gain by regime change in syria?
rapporteur. − mr president, may i apologise to the house for my late appearance. i was with my scottish colleagues, speaking to a visitors’ group from scotland about the mackerel war and the fisheries debates. firstly, let me thank all of the shadow rapporteurs, and my other colleagues in the committee on fisheries, for their help and cooperation throughout my work on the cmo report. i believe that we have arrived at a good conclusion, as this is the first of three legislative reports which will comprehensively reform the common fisheries policy. i think there are many interesting signposts in this cmo package which point the way for the common fisheries policy. one of the key issues which have dominated our discussion on cfp reform has, of course, been the need to end micro-management from brussels, which has bedevilled the sector for decades, and replace micro-management with meaningful regionalisation. under such a system the commission will set the framework for the cfp and devolve day-to-day management to the stakeholders themselves. i therefore emphasise the need for an enhanced role for producer organisations (pos), which will be best placed to assist with the day-to-day organisation of effort limitation, quota management, by-catch avoidance and dealing with fish landed under the discards ban. given this enhanced role, i have also said that the criteria for setting up a po should be clearly defined as regards the minimum number of participants, and i have suggested where transnational pos and associations of pos can provide useful partnerships to ensure a level playing field in respect of common and binding rules. the report also makes several suggestions on labelling, including the need for clear information for consumers on origin, method and data production. also, the area where the fish was caught should be expressed in terms that are familiar to the consumer. i have also suggested that the date of landing should be mandatory, and the date of catch voluntary. in addition, an innovation which won general support in committee is the voluntary use of an eu eco-label. the report also encourages member states to make full use of modern technology, utilising funding from the european maritime and fisheries fund to combine information that is already available through electronic logbooks, vms and cctv to increase market intelligence and increase profitability for everyone in the sector. on discards, we vetoed the idea of distributing fish free to charities, hospitals and schools, as this would undermine the market. we have placed all of the emphasis on by-catch avoidance, but suggested that fish landed under any discard ban should be used for pet food, fish meal, fish oil, or for bait. mature commercial species landed under the discard ban should be sold in the normal way, with po members receiving some small reimbursement to cover their costs for such landings, and the remainder going to a conservation fund. it is imperative, however, that reimbursements should not be set at a level that might encourage the targeting of juvenile fish.
blue-card question. – mr ferreira, would you agree that the common fisheries policy has been a total ecological, environmental disaster, with particular damage to fishing stocks, and would you further agree that the only certain cure is the immediate repatriation of fishing grounds to the nation states, starting off with spanish subsidised spanish trawlers staying out of british territorial waters. would you agree?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to ask the question, why do they not get it? why is it that some members of the epp, from the italian, spanish and french delegations, just do not get it? we have been overfishing. the problem for the fishing industry is that there are now too few fish. we have to rebuild fish stocks. that is at the heart of the commission’s proposals – that we need to achieve maximum sustainable yield (msy), but not just msy. we need to set levels above msy. we need to rebuild those stocks to give industry a future. yet 70 epp members have signed an amendment to delete that word ‘above’. they are basically saying ‘we do not care about rebuilding fish stocks’. i am sure that they are trying to be kind to the fishing industry by doing this – buying them a little short-term profit without having to take the measures necessary – but their kindness will kill the fishing industry. i urge them to think again.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, with fish stocks in serious decline in europe’s rich fishing grounds, the cfp is a failure. yet these reports are laced with the same old eurospeak – regulation, restriction, prohibit. before the cfp most european fishermen, unhampered by bureaucratic interference, had been fishing responsibly, looking after their own waters and therefore handing on viable fisheries down the generations. but the eu destroyed this culture of care and so now we have rules about total permissible catch and the wretched discard policy, which has decimated stocks. if you do not like lessons from the past, then try the present. norway and iceland still record good catches and find many species spawning well, but then they ban discards and other destructive eu measures which, as noted in these reports, have reduced eu fishing fleets. the uk fishing fleet is barely half its former size and so much of the fish sold in the uk now comes from iceland. what an indictment of the cfp. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr clark, you forget that british fish stocks were declining very well in the 1960s before we joined the eu. but my question is this. i am glad you are engaged in this debate. we want to bring about reform and we want to save our fish stocks, but, mr clark, your leader, nigel farage, has a seat on the committee on fisheries. i have never seen that seat occupied. we need votes to help us reform the cfp. is the uk independence party going to support britain by being in the seat and using its vote, or by running away? (cry of ‘hear, hear!’ from the floor)
blue-card answer. – i cannot answer for my leader in this context. i will ask him, and i will give you the answer, if you will permit me, in the morning or the day after perhaps.
mr president, these reports encompass some of the key issues involved in the ongoing cfp reform debate. on discards, we all agree that this scandalous waste of food must be ended, but we must accept that the cfp and its detailed rules are a significant cause of discards. the cod recovery plan and its catch composition rules are directly causing substantial amounts of wastage through discards. on decentralisation, let us allow europe’s fishing nations to decide, working together in logical sea basins, how best to conserve their stocks, because it is their future and they who will have the most incentive to make it work. the cfp has failed scotland’s fishing communities and to date, in spite of its absolute control over every movement that our fishermen make, it has been unable to help us resolve the mackerel dispute. i hope that by supporting the gallagher report the commission will run out of excuses and that we will have some action and that we will have a resolution to that problem. finally, on aquaculture, the market organisation is very important to aquaculture, as is eu support for development and research – but not control or management.
mr president, in respect of the gallagher report, i would hope that the house would support this report. i would also hope, commissioner, that it would strengthen your hand in dealing with the icelandic and faroese situation. this has been going on for years now. for the sake of a sustainable fishery and for a sustainable fishing industry, we need to have this issue sorted out. i trust that support for the report from this house will help in that. in relation to the common organisation of the market, i want to say a personal ‘thank you’ to struan stevenson. he took the time to visit northern ireland and i know that some of the issues that were raised there are reflected in his amended report. i also want just to briefly touch on the issue of discards. we are in agreement that this is a practice that is completely terrible in relation to fishing. i agree with my scottish colleague who says that much of the common fisheries policy has actually helped to increase the level of discards. i would encourage members in the house next week to take the opportunity to come along to an initiative that i have organised with other parliamentary colleagues, to hear the way that the industry itself, right across europe, is dealing with the practice of discards.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers in this debate for their kind words and can i also thank my assistant catherine stack for all the hard work she had done on this report. first of all, let me address one of the issues that the commissioner brought up on multiannual plans, and i really want to address this to the president-in-office of the council, mr mavroyiannis, and say how much i support what the commissioner said: without multiannual plans, president-in-office, we have no effective cfp reform. you cannot say to our fishermen that you can have the confidence of stability in the sector for the months and years ahead unless we get multiannual plans in place. three of our reports, including one from my colleague, pat the cope gallagher, have been blocked for over three years in this deadlock. this is no use. we really have to make some progress on this and i appeal to the council to try to make a breakthrough on multiannual plans. mr mavroyiannis, i support the position that you have taken this evening on things like tfcs being voluntary, on boosting aquaculture, on the need for setting a deadline for msy, on the discards ban and i also thoroughly agree with the council position. i want to say this to mrs damanaki on labelling. when i was in galicia the fishermen said to me that if coastal fishermen go out for several days and keep their catch on liquid ice, then when they land their catch it is perfectly fresh and in great condition. inshore fishermen may go out and come back in 24 hours but they have their catch lying in the sun for all of that time. the consumer, however, would be left with the impression from the mandatory date of catch that the poorer quality fish was actually better. i think that is unfair; it is an unfair advantage. therefore, a voluntary label for date of catch and a mandatory label for date of landing are essential.
in writing. – proposed reform of common fisheries policy will not ensure sustainability nor lead to urgently needed economic reform. the lack of a bold revolution, necessary for schismatic reversal of fishing policy, confirms the eu is incapable of providing a fit-for-purpose solution to overfishing. a study by the new economics foundation shows many fish stocks could be rebuilt within five years through real time bans. restored stocks would generate gbp 14.62 billion annual revenue, treble the value of fish landed at sustainable levels today. the only way to effectively manage dramatic policy change is to renationalise fishing rights. there are 500 registered boats in welsh waters, yet 90% of catch is not landed in wales. a large proportion of the offshore fleet is made up of vessels registered in wales but owned by spanish companies and some dutch operators, who contribute nothing to the local economy. most landings by the local fleet are also consigned to ports outside the region. while 75% of the welsh coastline has protected status, wales cannot promote sustainability nor would gain in doing so. only renationalising waters would incentivise the stewardship of seas by guaranteeing future sustainable, profitable local maritime industries and fair international trade.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, last wednesday near the beautiful lake annecy in south-eastern france, three british adults were shot dead, two young children survived, one is in a critical condition, and the second has been left deeply traumatised by what she witnessed. within days, british police officers were in france working alongside their french counterparts, and french investigators have travelled to the uk to work alongside the british. this is a very good example of a joint investigation and illustrates that eu member states can cooperate and work together on the most serious of crimes. this directive will create a proper legal framework, so this example of collaboration and cooperation between the french and the british will become the norm, and vulnerable victims can be spared further pain and distress. whilst this directive covers a wide spectrum of crime from the most petty to the most serious, i believe that when people find themselves away from their home country and are the victim of a violent and serious crime, they are at their most vulnerable, especially children. by asking all european national governments to adhere to a set of standards for all victims, we can ensure that they will receive the proper assistance and support. for the first time in european legislation there will also be a legal requirement to respond to the particular needs of victims of terrorism, including their immediate family members. earlier today we remembered those who had lost their lives in the 9/11 attacks on the twin towers, and we remember also their family members left behind. since that attack, europe too has faced the threat of terrorism. when london was attacked in july 2007, 52 innocent people lost their lives and 52 families lost a loved one. the same can be said of our friends in madrid. finally, i am pleased to see the inclusion of a large number of amendments initiated by myself relating to child victims. as a lawyer i dealt with a number of children who had been the victims of crimes, and i know the sensitivity which is required in order to guarantee their safety and protection. in the uk we have become very well skilled at dealing with children who are victims or witnesses of crime, and i believe that in this specific area we really can share best practice with other eu member states.
mr president, commissioner, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteurs for this work. i welcome this debate tonight and believe that the proposals before us represent real progress in how we deal with the victims of crime in our society. my constituency of northern ireland is today making real progress after having suffered at the hands of criminals who, through their terrorist campaign, have sadly left us with many victims who daily feel the hurt and loss of loved ones or deal with mental or physical anguish as a result of what they were put through. these victims, innocents, suffering loss through no fault or deed of their own, need our support and the support of democratic institutions. i am heartened by what i have heard tonight. however, there is a key point: i would urge the house to always remember to make a clear distinction between the perpetrator of crime and the victim of that crime. there are some in my constituency, perverse as it may seem to the vast majority of us, where the perpetrator can also be the victim. that cannot, and should never, be the case.
mr president, while mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra is right to say that this report has shown parliament at its best, it has also shown our constituents at their best, as the commissioner knows – she put at the heart of her speech maggie hughes and her son robert, who suffered terrible injuries. i was honoured to accompany maggie hughes to her office. the commissioner put mrs hughes at the heart of her speech because it was her campaigning which formed many of the amendments which we put forward to this directive. those amendments really informed what constructed a victim’s agenda to this report and it answered the question: how does the eu help me and my family in times of dire need, where existing cooperation between member states has demonstrably been inadequate? what maggie hughes asked for was access to information, translation, interpretation, legal advice, reimbursement of expenses and compensation for victims of cross-border cases – the practical things that make the european union mean something to people in times of need. i think she will listen to this debate, commissioner, and think that the european parliament has done its job and i thank members in this house for doing their job very well.
mr president, i will be no exception in congratulating our rapporteurs, and indeed our commissioner, very warmly. as a lawyer myself i see much in this package to admire, and much that is not only necessary but very urgent. that is why we need to move on to what comes next. while we congratulate ourselves and recognise the progress that has been made and celebrate the fact that we have got this far, the 2001 package promised much but raised – and dashed – the hopes of those of us who wanted to see a more coherent system. it is crucial that we learn the lessons of that to make sure that they are not repeated. i am happy to report that the scottish government is a very willing partner in this process. the scottish government this week launched a victims and witness bill to the scottish parliament which will exceed the terms of this directive by a significant margin. we are keen on this legislation. we will work with you. scots law already is very distinctive within our european tradition. but what about the other member states? we have a three-year limit for transposition. will the commissioner tonight undertake to open immediate infraction proceedings if a member state drags its feet, for whatever reason? we need a civil body on the side of victims. to finish with one sentence: we need to see a proper budget for it. commissioner, we will work with you on this dossier going forward to deliver for our citizens. passing laws is easy; enforcing them is what will change their lives.
mr president, i was not planning on speaking but i would like to thank the rapporteurs and congratulate them on a piece of work that shines as a beacon in a very troubled europe. areas of protection for victims of crimes are, without doubt in my mind, among the main contributions we can make working in this parliament, and we should be working in this area. as more of our citizens move across europe for social, recreational or work reasons, it is important that they do so safely, so i was particularly pleased that this initiative was taken up. i know how much work the rapporteur herself has put in and i congratulate her on her perseverance. ‘well done’ needs to be said on occasions. i have criticised this parliament, and this is one of those occasions when i have come out to say ‘well done’ to the rapporteurs.
author. − mr president, i would like to say to commissioner reding that every time we ask the commission this question, we always get the same answer. we are told that that there is no problem, yet cane refiners throughout the eu are running below capacity. factories are closing their doors for several days a week, and this means that jobs are lost. the commission even showed us a copy of a letter from a french cane refiner telling it that cane supplies were chronically inadequate, whilst at the same time stating that the system should remain as it is. what the commission failed to mention, or notice, was that the refinery was owned by a beet producer, thus their desire to keep the status quo. when the commission admits there is a problem, we are told that it is only a british problem, yet 62 meps from 11 member states wrote to the agriculture commissioner asking for changes to be made to the sugar regime. jobs are at risk, not only in the uk, but across europe, especially in portugal, bulgaria and romania. the commission knows there is a problem; we know there is a problem. we must act now to create a level playing field in this industry. commissioner, you are not responsible for agriculture but for citizenship. it is our job to protect our citizens, those whose jobs are under threat and those who are paying more at the supermarket each week. the price of sugar in the eu is 46% more than in the rest of the world. all the commission needs to do is to look at the source of the sugar supply and fix it. if the commission refuses to do that now, it will have let down the very people it is here to serve, and europe will lose a key manufacturing industry.
author. − mr president, with due respect to the commissioner i would have hoped that the agricultural commissioner might have been here tonight to answer our questions but i am sure the commissioner here will do a very good job in trying to reply. our debate tonight is focused on the commission’s management of the eu sugar market regime following the reforms of 2006. according to our cane refiners, and tate & lyle in particular, they claim that the commission forecast in 2006 of 3.5 million tonnes of cane imports to the eu from the acp countries has failed to materialise, and the commission so far has refused to allow in enough tariff-free imports from other countries, such as brazil, to make up the difference. they claim this has led to rocketing raw material costs and reduced throughput in their factories by up to 40%, which is driving up costs and making them uncompetitive against beet producers in the eu market. they argue that unless the commission takes action to allow more raw material into the eu market, sugar refiners are going to close and jobs in many eu countries will be lost. they say all they want is fair competition and a level playing field, and it is the commission’s actions that are preventing that from happening. we also have the counter-arguments from the beet growers, who claim the market is balanced, and that the commission forecast of 3.5 million tonnes of imports has materialised, as it includes both raw and white sugar, and the eu must not allow imports of cane from brazil as it would undermine the preferred suppliers in the acp countries. they also claim that it is the failure of the cane sector to reconstruct and rationalise after the 2006 reform that is the real root cause of the problem. so the question is: who is right and what action needs to be taken? there is no doubt in my mind that there is a real problem in the cane sector and i want to hear from the commissioner here tonight what action she is going to take to ensure there is a level playing field for both beet and cane processors.
blue-card question to marina yannakoudakis. – mr president, i have a major sugar refinery in my constituency of london, as does mrs yannakoudakis, and i would like to ask her a question along these lines. there have been a number of exceptional measures in the last two years to relieve the shortage of sugar imports. were the duties for releasing sugar into the eu market charged at the same value for all sectors?
blue-card answer. – in the last two marketing years the duty charged for beet and isoglucose sectors was at an average of eur 75 per tonne for the 1.2 million tonnes of extra supply. now for raw sugar, less than 900 000 tonnes has been imported and the average duty charged was, i believe, eur 183 per tonne. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – no, we are not attacking anyone. all that we are stating is that we want a level playing field. we are talking about european jobs. the 2006 legislation was brought in by the eu. at the time it could have been reasonable and it probably did work, but companies and institutions and the eu should move forward as situations change. the situation has changed. the sugar is not enough for these refineries and they are having to shut down for certain days a week. that is a fact. if we do not act, there is a chance that 4 500 european jobs will be lost. i am talking about jobs, not only in the uk, where we are only talking about 90 jobs at the moment, but in countries such as portugal which are suffering under the economic recession. this is not a time to play politics. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i totally agree with the member. that is our problem and that is what we are trying to figure out now. that is why we are trying to act now. the chances of a tangible increase in imports from preferential supplies is low. that is why the commission has to come forward with a plan b at this time to suit the situation.
blue-card question. – mr dess, you referred to the problems being from high world prices for sugar. do you accept that eu sugar prices are in fact 46% higher than the world price, having risen nearly 50% since the commission first recognised the eu sugar crisis in december 2010? eu sugar prices are rising while world prices are actually falling, so it is not a problem of high world prices. secondly, do you accept that there has been a perverse incentive for beet processors to bid up the price of raw cane sugar, forcing traditional refiners out of business while rapidly increasing the profits on their beet sugar sales by pushing white sugar prices higher? that is why white sugar prices are higher.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the hour may be late but quite clearly we have a very good debate going here in this house tonight by a small number of people, which shows you the importance of this topic. i think it is a very timely debate and i congratulate my colleagues on bringing this to the floor of the house. regarding the success of the reform of the sugar regime, i think the introduction of quotas back in 2006 has been proved very wrong. the processing plants were closed down across europe. we are now in a situation where we are a net importer of sugar, as has been pointed out here tonight, and that surely in my opinion is totally unacceptable. we should also address the issue of equality between different types of sugar production; for example the sugar cane refining industry is struggling at the moment to access adequate raw materials due to restrictions, no matter what we say. who can supply the industry in view of the punitive tariffs that are being experienced at the moment? i would urge the commission to find a solution to the problem which is putting many jobs at risk throughout europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we have to compare what the commission is saying about their wider policy aims on employment, social living conditions and trade, and what they are saying about sugar. recently, both president barroso of the commission and president van rompuy spoke at the jobs for europe conference. each acknowledged the extreme seriousness of unemployment in eu member states. however, i would wager a bag of sugar that neither of them mentioned the fact that iceland, norway and switzerland have higher employment rates than any eu state, even the mighty germany. this little booklet tells you all about it. their words about employment are not matched by their actions, one of which is to raise tariffs against imported raw sugar cane for which there is a ready market. this restriction of supply is a direct cause of lost jobs in the sugar cane refining sector. what twists the knife here is that these tariffs are based on hopelessly inaccurate sugar forecasts made by the commission in 2005. if the commission wished to keep food affordable and to keep individuals out of poverty, why enforce a policy that will make sugar more expensive? there is another commissioner who also has been caught with his fingers in the sugar bowl. this is mr de gucht. he recently enthused about the importance of deepening the eu’s trade with third countries. he informed us that this had the potential to increase the gdp of the eu by the equivalent output of a country the size of denmark or austria. restricting sugar imports from overseas countries does seem a strange way to increase trade with them. the commission’s favourite response when confronted like this is to point to the bilateral trade negotiations that they are conducting with countries in central america, and assuming that the sugar trade that results from this deal will compensate for the shortfall from the acp and the less-developed countries. however, 300 000 tonnes of new sugar can never replace 1.5 million tonnes lost of traditional sugar and the sooner the commission faces up to this, the better for all concerned. our uk house of lords highlighted this very point last week in their enquiry into the eu sugar regime. the fact that they should even deem such an inquiry necessary should ring alarm bells, and i hope that their very critical conclusion will force the commissioners to wake up and smell the cane.
blue-card question to james nicholson. – unfortunately i have a lot of unanswered questions. it is not commissioner reding’s fault that she has had to read a speech, so i am going to ask my colleague mr nicholson, who is in agriculture. a few weeks ago we had a meeting with commissioner cioloş and we asked him to set up a taskforce since there is such a varied debate. have you heard anything more? will this be a positive way forward?
blue-card answer. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to be speaking immediately after mr agnew who today remonstrated with me because i was not pronouncing his name properly but i think that i have got it right tonight. i can say to mrs yannakoudakis that i have heard nothing since that but i certainly think that that will be one of the positive ways forward because we cannot look back; we have to look forward. we cannot look to the mistakes which were made in the past. we have to look to the future.
mr president, vice-president reding is not the only person present who rarely ventures into agriculture. the 2006 reform promised to guarantee supplies, and has clearly not delivered for traditional cane refiners. the sector is shedding jobs. i would like to say to mr dantin that nearly 1000 jobs are imperilled in my constituency alone, and factories face the risk of closure. meanwhile beet refiners pocketed eur 5 billion of aid in 2006 – compared to eur 150 million for cane refiners – and use a cross subsidy to muscle into refining. they are now creaming off profits since the market is oligopolistic rather than competitive. raw cane supply has failed to rise, not because preferential suppliers sold elsewhere, but because they did not expand as expected. some blame should be attached to the commission’s bureaucracy for its lack of efficiency in administering aid. meanwhile imports from brazil or thailand face big tariffs: normally eur 339, and an average of eur 183 even under special measures. the treatment of traditional cane refiners is deeply unfair, and it is workers and consumers who are suffering. frankly the agriculture commissioner seems prejudiced, stubbornly prejudiced, against them all.
blue-card question. – mr cohn-bendit, why cannot you understand that federalism, european regulations and the wasteful, wasted european budgets are no cure for the european disease? they are the cause of the european disease.
mr president, i would just point out to mr cohn-bendit that i have the privilege and honour of being elected to this chamber, just as he and the other members have. my lineage and background are totally irrelevant, as is most of his speech.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, two weeks ago i was privileged to be with mr daul and others from this house in tampa, where mitt romney told the republican national convention: ‘i wish president obama had succeeded because i want america to succeed, but his promises gave way to disappointment and division’. i wish to say to president barroso: my group supported you for a second term. we wanted you to succeed in shaping a positive agenda for reform of the eu. in some areas, such as international trade or the single market, your commission has made some progress which we welcome, and we welcome your further announcements today of progress on the single market. but overall i have to say we are very disappointed. rather than seeing european renewal, as you yet again promised last year, all we have seen is the same old tired approach: more europe rather than better europe. exactly two years ago the main initiative to emerge from your state of the union speech was project bonds. two years on, nothing has happened, they are merely at a pilot phase. last year your big idea was an eu-wide financial transactions tax, and today thankfully that idea is dead in the water. this year we have a banking union, we have more treaty change – the knee-jerk reflex of the european elite to every crisis. you told us today that we have the power to shape the world. mr barroso, can i suggest that first of all you concentrate on solving the problems of europe before you worry about shaping the rest of the world? and so far, the response to the euro zone crisis has been characterised by seeking short-term, sticking-plaster solutions and long-term institutional navel-gazing. listening to you today it looks as though that is going to continue. bail-outs – ecb ponzi schemes – have enabled you to kick the infamous can even further down the road, and last week’s ecb decision to buy up bonds may be, as some members have said, a useful stop-gap, but it is in no sense a solution. risks have simply been transferred from one balance sheet to another. the essential nonsense of this current approach was for me brilliantly illustrated over the summer. if you remember, greece had to repay a eur 5 billion loan to the ecb, so to do this they issued new short-term bonds. all of these bonds were bought by greek banks. those greek banks are, of course, all technically bust. so where did they get the money from? they borrowed it from the ecb to pay the greek state who then gave it back to the ecb again. mr president, this is exactly the kind of financial chicanery which caused the economic crisis in the first place, and now you want us to have another long drawn-out academic debate about more treaty change, about a banking union. we will scrutinise your proposals very carefully to make sure that they respect the rights of those member states that thankfully chose not to join the euro. we wish to maintain the integrity of the single market and ensure that your proposals do not damage that market. the euro was, of course, a political project from the start. i well remember the many debates in this house we had about it, where the political symbolism was much more important than the economic reality. i bet many of you are regretting that now. well, president, we are now in an economic crisis and it will be solved with economic solutions, by confronting some fairly stark economic truths. it is a reality – and members have referred to this, mr barroso referred to this – that some euro zone countries are less competitive than others. for them, the euro is acting like a straitjacket, preventing the currency devaluation that would give them time to put in place longer-term reforms. and to illustrate how urgent the problem is, i agree with mr swoboda, a new report from the ilo shows that spain now has the highest documented unemployment rate in the world. greece unfortunately comes second. this is misery on an epic scale in those countries, and we really should do something about it. so let us be honest about it. let us be honest with ourselves. the only way that the euro can be made to work with 17 members is if the people of germany, the people of the netherlands, the people of finland, are prepared to transfer cash – not loans, cash – from their taxpayers’ pockets in order to bridge the competitiveness gap. now i do not think that is ever going to happen and the people of those countries deserve our understanding of why that is not possible. so surely the only other alternative is for some countries to leave the euro, to devalue their currencies and for us to support them as they find the right policies that will return them to sustainable public spending and growth in the long-term. the euro area needs to be restructured, and i do not say that with delight, mr barroso. i say it because i think it is the only realistic course of action that will deliver for people who are desperate for a solution. the eu faces a crisis of leadership. mr barroso told us so himself last year in the state of the union address, and i agree with him in that particular case. the eu does face a crisis of leadership. it needs a leadership that faces the economic reality of the euro crisis and does not keep avoiding the problem. we need new leadership that respects our nation states as building blocks of democracy which should be supported and not undermined. we take away people’s right to control their destiny through the ballot box at our peril. already frustrated, angry and fearful people are toying with extremist forces and the alarm bells should be ringing. on that point, and on that point alone, i agree with mr cohn-bendit. we need a new leadership which will tackle europe’s fundamental competitiveness crisis in the wider global economy and which will pursue a new direction to relaunch growth along the lines outlined by 12 eu prime ministers in their letter in february. in america, governor romney has set out a plan for how he would renew america by returning it to a land of personal ambition, enterprise and freedom. in the eu we come from the same traditions and we are at our best when government is small, when markets are free and when the people exercise control over their government. mr barroso, i still hope that, as you prepare your work programme for next year, it is not too late for you to shake off the policies of the past and to champion genuine reform of the eu so that it can become relevant to today’s reality and help us to succeed in facing the difficult years ahead. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr callanan, you talked about economic growth. would you agree with me that, if we are to create the conditions for growth in europe, we must first roll back intrusive eu employment legislation? would you also agree therefore that the eu must not press ahead with its plans for mandatory quotas for women in company board rooms?
blue-card answer. – i agree with you that, of course, we need more flexible labour markets. we need to give people the opportunity to work in many countries where that is denied them. i fear that what we see here is yet more intrusive eu legislation trying to interfere in areas where it has no place. of course i want to see more women on company boards, but i want to see them there on merit. we have many excellent women in this house who are here on merit –(interjection from mr cohn-bendit) we know you are not here on merit, mr cohn-bendit, but many people are! – and we want to see them here on merit, not because of impossible and undeserved quotas.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i begin today on a happy note remembering that it is 20 years ago this very week since the united kingdom, having been signed up by the conservative government to the exchange rate mechanism, broke out of the erm. it was a great liberation for us and, of course, once having been bitten we did not join the euro project, thank goodness. sadly, the same is not true for much of the rest of europe. i thought, through the last 18 months or so, that the economic logic of why britain left the erm would apply, particularly to those mediterranean countries, and i foresaw that actually those countries would leave the euro zone, probably with greece leaving this year. but i now have to accept that i have been wrong about that, because i had totally underestimated the complete fanaticism of you, mr barroso, your college of commissioners, and the european central bank. you have come out fighting on all fronts. today you announced that there is going to be a banking union, yet more centralised control, yet more regulation. you make it clear that whilst you think the nation state should continue to exist, it must not have any democratic powers. all democracy is to be vested here under what you call the ‘community method’ which of course means that your unelected commission has the sole right to present that legislation, so i do not believe you when you say that and i find the tone of much of what has been said and done over the last few days really very worrying. mario draghi, now known by some that believe in the euro as super mario, showed us his big bazooka the other day. he upped the stakes and he told us – and to me it is an odd concept – that he had unlimited money. now, i do not think money grows on trees and i think that money is limited to what the german, dutch and finnish taxpayers are prepared to put in, but he has made clear his intention: he will fight to the last german taxpayer to keep the mediterranean countries that should never have joined the euro in there. and now you have of course the prime minister of italy – perhaps we ought to call him monstrous mario – who made it clear last week that he feared that nation state democracy could bring down the european union and therefore we have to by-pass nation state democracy and pass all the powers here. your henchman olli rehn, who is here today, dares to tell countries when they should and should not have general elections. he is urging spain to accept a full bailout so that they too are trapped in the euro prison. i have to accept that you now have the whip hand over the citizens of europe and i now think that this euro crisis will go on for a whole miserable decade. in the end, you will have to face the reality that even france and germany cannot survive together in the same economic and monetary union and certainly with president hollande reducing retirement ages, upping minimum wages and bringing in a hate tax for the successful, which will see all the entrepreneurs leave france, i am afraid that gap will get bigger. i wonder where the hope comes for those who believe in nation state democracy. we have heard that the german court this morning has decided that the esm is ok. maybe the finns will say they have had enough. maybe the germans as a country will say they are no longer going to go on feeling ashamed and guilty for what their grandparents’ generation did and will start to stand up for their own economic interest. i do not know, but i suspect that the best hope we have actually comes from the united kingdom, where the demand for a referendum is stronger than it has ever been, where our conservative prime minister is in very deep trouble. i think today, mr barroso, the british people hearing you calling for the european union to become a global power, making it absolutely clear that member states must obey what you tell them, whether they are in the relatively wealthy north or the poorer south, i think those comments, this emerging, creeping, euro-dictatorship is something that will repulse millions of british people. the only good news i take from today is that you have helped to bring that referendum just a little bit closer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the point about listening is a very good one – a very good one. you should have listened when the french people voted ‘no’ to the european constitution, but you chose to ignore them. you should have listened when the dutch by a massive majority of two to one said ‘no’ to the constitution, but you did not. you rebranded it as the lisbon treaty without conceding a single power; you bulldozed it through, and here this morning we hear talk of a new treaty and a new constitution. when little ireland not once but twice dared to vote ‘no’ in a referendum on european integration, you did not listen, you bullied them to make them vote again. you are the one, sir, who is not listening. (applause)
mr president, i would say to president barroso that we welcome his advocacy of a european political space and the news that the commission will put forward a proposal on european political parties. but for parties to be truly supranational, elections must be supranational. mr barroso, do you propose the direct election by universal suffrage of your successor? and if not, why not? in the united states the world is watching a truly federal election. the only message from their politicians to us is: get your act together. mr barroso, you have been in office for eight years. you lament the absence of a debate between citizens on the consequences of fragmentation, but what proposals have you brought forward in those eight years to provide for such a debate? you challenge artists and intellectuals to make their voice heard. you may be aware that 50 poets came together and published the european constitution in verse just three years ago. it depicts european citizens full of ideals but let down by their leaders. it is not just a federation of nation states that is needed, it is a federation of citizens, and we need leaders who understand that.
mr president, this debate is titled ‘state of the union’ and what a state the union is in. unemployment continues to soar. in greece 55% of 16-24 year olds are now jobless. in spain protests have involved people going into supermarkets and filling up trolleys without paying to redistribute food to the poor people. demonstrations are commonplace throughout the country, with people objecting to the tough austerity and job cuts, leading the police to use rubber bullets to restore order. in 21st-century europe this is a disgrace. at the centre of it all is the european union, whose draconian and tyrannical austerity measures, reckless obsession with a dangerously flawed single currency and power-crazed federal dreams are ruining people’s lives. yet, mr barroso, not once have you apologised; not once have you accepted your hand in the making of this disaster. mr barroso, you should be ashamed.
mr president, i naturally greatly welcome the commitment to a federal europe. i do not think we ought to get tied up in semantic arguments about precisely what that means. we need to make progress, and i would request that we work to extract from the european council meeting in december a clear and solid commitment to call a convention in the spring of 2015 that will be prepared carefully so as to discard simplistic solutions and define the mandate that will ensure success.
mr president, mr barroso, we keep hearing these terrifying, biblical predictions of what would happen in the event of a euro break-up. we have heard the same thing over and over again. we heard it 20 years ago in my home country over the erm. we were told that it would be inflationary and that unemployment would rise. in fact, our recovery began the day we left and carried on for 15 years before gordon brown came along to mess it up, but that is another story. we had the same thing in denmark. we were told that if they voted not to join the euro, inflation would go up, interest rates would go up. in fact, precisely the opposite happened. the copenhagen stock exchange enjoyed its greatest 24-hour rise in history. inflation and interest rates fell. the same thing in sweden. i suspect that even you in your bones know that the best option now for the peripheral countries is to default, devalue, decouple. to price their way into the markets, to start exporting their way back to growth. it would not solve everything, but it would be an alternative to this downward spiral of deflation, poverty and emigration and that is really what you are afraid of. their economies would recover; the credibility of the eurocrats would not.
mr president, mr barroso said that we were at a crucial point in our history with crucial decisions to make. we have to decide what sort of europe we want. do we want a europe of austerity, pursuing policies which clearly are not working, or do we want a europe that gives hope to our young people? if we do, then we must have a credible and detailed plan to create the jobs and growth that we are so desperate for. we need clear priorities, and we need to focus our resources on those priorities. it is only by getting people back to work and paying their taxes, and thus regenerating our economies, that we will start to see economic recovery across europe. the decisions made affect us all, so it is vital for europe and for our own national interests. i would say to our conservative colleagues that we should all be at the table and not flouncing out of discussions, as has happened in the past, because the decisions that are made will shape the future for generations to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr barroso, i understand that some of the brussels press corps in the twitter sphere were less than enraptured by your speech. in fact, many of them were playing barroso buzzword bingo during its delivery. i wonder if anybody can guess what the winning line was. what did he say the most? you said ‘let us be frank’ five or six times during your speech. that was the winning line. well, let us be frank with you. you really offered us nothing new today, did you? you offered us the same old tired solutions, that the answer to all of our problems is more europe. not better europe, not more efficient europe, just more europe. and i say that i welcome the debate. table your proposals. let us have the debate about whether we want more europe or whether we want less europe, whether we want more power to the centre or more back to member states. and i will tell you something even more radical. let us have that debate, let us reach the conclusions and then let us ask the people in our member states, in referenda, what they think of the solutions offered. (applause)and then let us do something even more radical and let us take notice this time of what they say if, in fact, they reject your solutions. let me give you another quote from a dear member of the epp group, from mr daul’s party, from josé maría aznar, who said over the weekend that the drive for full fiscal and political union is ‘deeply misguided’. he said that ‘a united states of europe is an impossible idea. it is a very serious mistake to try to destroy nation states. you cannot go against the cultural beliefs of the people and the forces of history’, and i think he was right in what he said there. many people in this chamber, many of the leaders that have spoken, are stuck in the 1950s, in the old mantra of what should be done – all except mr cohn-bendit, of course. he is still stuck on the barricades in 1968. but they offer the tired solutions of the past. we need to reform the eu, we need to look forward to what the eu should offer us in the 21st century, and that should be less europe and more competitive europe and more competitive economies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer – mr president, two questions for the price of one. i am sorry if i offended mr mitchell. i am half irish, if that counts, and i know that the irish appreciate a joke. obviously in mr mitchell’s case, they sadly did not, but it was not meant to be a serious comment. on the subject of democracy, perhaps mr mitchell could learn from mr protasiewicz. the people of ireland, of course, have been asked numerous times whether they want more europe and more times than they have said ‘more’, they have said they wanted less europe. when we have this debate and when we have the results of it, we can do no more. if we really do believe in democracy, let us put the results of any constitutional convention, of proposals for more europe, to the people of europe in referenda and see if they agree. if they say yes, i will happily accept that result. but the reason that you will not put it to a referendum is that you know what the result will be and i know what the result will be. the people will say that they do not want any more europe. [applause]
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr barroso claims to be a good democrat. it is a very twisted form of democracy when he says that all of those political parties that get votes with which you do not agree are not relevant. it is a pretty obscene definition of democracy to decry those of us that believe in national democracy and european cooperation. mr barroso calls us populists, extremists, xenophobic and nationalistic. surely mr barroso, the point about democracy is that you engage in debate. you listen to what the other person has to say, you put it to the public and you accept the result. that is what real, genuine parliamentary democracy is about, and you seem to actually despise that and everything that those of us that stand for national democracy believe in. and to tell me that you are in this position because this parliament voted for you! we were only given the chance to vote for one candidate! is that your new model of european democracy? (applause)
blue-card answer. – i think i had better be slightly careful how i answer the last part of that question. mr brok, the british prime minister is taken from the floor of the house of commons and in fact nearly the entire british government are elected members of that house of commons. that is the government of the united kingdom. the fundamental difference between that and the european union is that this college of commissioners that you see over here – the people who have the sole right to propose legislation with the european system – not one of them has been voted for by anybody in europe and therefore they cannot be removed. that is why the european system is not just undemocratic, it is anti-democratic.
mr president, under the rules of procedure of this parliament, if you, as the president, wish to enter into a debate, that is fine. you are allowed to do so but you first have to leave the chair. i would suggest what you just did was to enter into that debate from the chair, and that is not the way this, or any other chamber, should be conducted.
mr president, there is a roll-call on the original text. it was our intention that this should be on the amendments which concern the rebuilding of fish stocks and to ask the house to agree to a roll-call vote on the amendment.
mr president, this report will ensure that citizens who become victims of crime when travelling in another eu country are given the help there that is needed. it gives victims of crime access to information as well as practical and emotional support. in the past, foreign victims have faced obstacles in obtaining fair compensation or they have been left without proper help and protection. these minimum standards will make it easier for victims to receive help and, more importantly, access to justice. basic procedural minimums are a more effective way of securing victims’ rights than a set of rigid regulations. this is a well-balanced approach to dealing with a problem which affects so many people in all member states.
mr president, i fully support establishing minimum eu standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. an example would be the right to receive a copy of your police report at a police station in your native language. the definition of a victim will also be broadened to encompass the family of a person who is murdered or who dies in a terrorist attack. in the event of a court case, the directive also encourages member states to allow families for the first time to speak in court, even if they are not a witness, if their statement does not interfere directly with the proceedings. i am particularly drawn to the directive’s proposal for a children’s rights package. this will establish a set of minimum standards for child victims, an example of which is the right to be interviewed by a video link and not in the court room. the recent terrible unsolved french alps murders, leaving two orphaned british children, provide an example of potential beneficiaries of these measures.
mr president, i believe that victims should be able to benefit from minimum levels of rights without discrimination across the eu. the stockholm programme states that a more integrated and coordinated approach to victims is needed. this directive is part of a package of measures which will help improve legislation in this area, ensuring that victims of crime have effective rights in practice. i am particularly pleased to have had the opportunity to support the children’s rights package initiated by my colleague timothy kirkhope. there are lots of very important rights for victims enshrined in this directive. but i feel rather disappointed, particularly having listened this morning to many people here extolling the virtues of europe, that we are in the position where we have to impose pan-european direction on this. surely, as member states, we are in a position where these basic rights will be afforded our citizens without that sort of compulsion.
mr president, can i very briefly say that i welcome the adoption of this directive on the rights of victims. i believe this a very important piece of work and i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. as you may be aware, where i come from in northern ireland, we suffered decades of violence from terrorists and it has had a very deep effect on the families of victims. we all hope that thankfully that is well now behind us, but it should never be forgotten, and nor should the impact of what occurred and its effect on many people. i am pleased therefore too that this report specifically refers to the victims of terrorism and crucially recognises that their families are victims and as such are entitled to rights and support. i note that national governments have three years to transpose this directive in national law and i would urge the uk to do this as swiftly as possible, particularly since – in my opinion – europe has for once understood the definition of a victim an awful lot better than my own people in northern ireland have done.
mr president, a single thief acting alone is an outlaw but a gang of thieves who manage to control the institutions of the state find that they can compel the law to their service. a counterfeiter is sent to prison; a central banker who debauches the currency is rewarded with a knighthood. a blackmailer who extorts is convicted; a taxman who does the same thing is supported by the taxpayers whom he is fleecing. a kidnapper who holds us to ransom expects a long prison sentence; a government minister who holds us in oppression expects to retire with a healthy pension. the story of democracy, the story of human progress, is holding to account those who govern us and preventing that systemic looting, but now at european level our looters have escaped the bounds of public opinion and so, particularly in the peripheral states, we see generational poverty being inflicted without any recourse from the victims. on the 20th anniversary of my own country’s escape from the erm let me assure the peoples of european that there is an alternative, there is a way out: running your own affairs in your own interest and growing your own way back to growth.
mr president, i think the issue of the rights of victims of crime is one that probably united most of the house. we can all feel sympathy for the victims of crime, particularly when the measures that are being proposed seek to afford victims in a member state the rights of the citizens of that member state. i think it is important that we look at these issues, but actually i also think there should be a word of caution. of course it is all too easy to harmonise when it comes to something that we all agree on. it is all too easy to say that it is harmonised because we all care about victims of crime. we all care about children, particularly those children who are the victims of crime, but at the same time we have to be careful that this is not the beginning of the slippery slope to more and more harmonisation of rights. at the beginning we all believe and support these moves, but actually as we go down that slippery slope, at what point does it become an imposition on the rights of member states?
mr president, i give my full support for measures against countries that fish unsustainably and threaten marine resources. this is in keeping with my party’s environmental policy to encourage sustainable food production and enhance the resilience of the whole food chain, namely the fish industry, in so doing. the political impetus behind these proposals can be attributed in part to the latest international disputes over fisheries such as the unsustainable fishing of mackerel stocks. this proposal also sees ‘associated stocks’ being redefined for the first time as a new umbrella term to encompass any fish belonging to the same ecosystem that prey upon that stock or that are preyed upon by the common stock in question. with regard to the imposing of these restrictions or actions, i also agree strongly with the obligation to consider and evaluate the environmental, trade, economic and social effects of the measures in order to ensure that they are reasonable, just and proportionate and that they are fully compatible with the eu’s wto international trade obligations.
mr president, at a time when we are reforming the common fisheries policy and requiring our own fishermen to ensure that their activities are sustainable, it is fair to ensure where possible a level playing field for fisheries imports. i supported this proposal enthusiastically because it enables the european union to take action against those countries that fish unsustainably. i very much support measures in the text whereby we will be able to impose quantitative restrictions on imports of fish into the union from third countries. but i want to make a particular point. one of the reasons why i was so enthusiastic to support this is that it is time that we called on the commission to take note of parliament’s will. this was a strong vote in favour of the report. they must take note of parliament’s will on this issue and they must make sure that they find a way of making sure that we are compatible with our international obligations, not finding lots of reasons to tell us why we will not be. the rapporteur and the work he has done on this issue deserve that kind of respect.
mr president, i voted with my group in favour of the report which reforms the common fisheries policy with regard to the organisation of the markets. the first positive change is that discards will be reduced by stipulating that producer organisations should actively promote discard avoidance. another merit is the modified objectives of producer organisations, which now include promoting the creation of jobs in coastal and rural areas, as well as providing vocational training to motivate young people to enter the sector. crucially, another amended objective of producer organisations is the assurance that a fair standard of living will be implemented for those in the fisheries sector. finally the amended report also ensures that clearer information should be given to the consumer on the origin of the fisheries products. it also, notably, calls for the development of an eu-wide eco-label for sustainable fishery products.
mr president, this report is the first of the three legislative proposals to reform the common fisheries policy. it aims to provide market incentives to support more sustainable practices, and to enhance the market potential of eu products. it is vital, of course, to promote a more sustainable fisheries sector but we must at the same time support fishermen. the role of producer organisations (pos) cannot be underestimated in this equation, and i welcome the introduction of clear objectives for them to ensure that they promote profitable fishing and reject profligate fishing. i was very pleased to see the requirements that pos promote the avoidance of by-catch and the handling of remaining unwanted catch in a responsible way, not distorting the market. lastly, i was also pleased to support the amendment tabled by my colleague struan stevenson requesting that the commission introduce an eu-wide eco-label for sustainable fisheries practice. i very much support all of these aims and i hope we will be able to make sure that our new common fisheries policy does the job we want it to do.
mr president, the ecr accepts the reality of the cfsp and the need to engage with it. however, the cfsp must always remain subject to unanimity in the council as my group, the ecr, does not want to see the eu undermining national sovereignty in this key area or totally usurping the role of national foreign ministries. that explains why my group abstained and could not support all aspects of the brok report. we have as a group engaged constructively with the external action service, though not uncritically, particularly over their unreasonable demand for a budget increase in this climate of austerity. i have to say that in spite of the huge crisis in the union over the euro, the eeas is actually up and running and that has to be recognised. the eeas must, however, in this climate of austerity prove its value added, both in savings to the member states, particularly the smaller ones with lower bilateral representations, and show that states such as my own, the united kingdom, which are major international players, can see their national interests both protected and better projected through using the new eeas service. one good example of this is the new european compound in juba, south sudan, where all eu member states are signing up to using this as a joined-up operation. the ecr was also pleased to note a positive reference to taiwan in the report and in particular taiwan’s commitment to peace and security in the east asia region. this commitment has been further reinforced by president ma’s east china sea peace initiative, a courageous and commendable effort to resolve the long-standing territorial dispute between taiwan, china and japan over the diaoyu islands/senkaku islands. recently tensions have suddenly escalated with china, i think it was yesterday, sending patrol boats in response to the purchase of the islands by the japanese government. president ma’s imaginative and visionary plan, analogous to what happens over the antarctic treaty, deserves in the view of my group, the eu’s full support.
mr president, since 2002 the commission has been obliged, under a council regulation, to report on the conservation and sustainable exportation of marine, i.e. fishery, resources and on fishing restrictions in the 12-nautical-mile zone by the end of 2011. the most recent report states that member states’ efforts to enhance conservation and to rebuild fish stocks are insufficient and that little progress has been made on the reduction of fleet capacity. i am in favour of this report as it states that, in order to improve the system of fishing restrictions in the 12-nautical-mile waters, a concrete definition of over-capacity must be established at eu level, regional definitions must be accommodated and, finally, efficient data collection mechanisms with long-term management plans for all eu fisheries must be enforced rigorously. if this, which is part of a three-pronged new legislative package, still fails, then in my view the whole of the cfp must be questioned and perhaps should be abandoned and repatriated to the member states. so this is the last chance to get this thing right for our fishermen in the european union.
mr president, common fisheries policy reform, as a package, will now hopefully mean the commission will be encouraged, in a non-binding way, to strengthen measures for the conservation of marine biological resources. this is very much in line with my party’s ambitious 10-year biodiversity strategy. hopefully this will also ensure socio-economic sustainability – which is in keeping with our commitment to build a more responsible economic model and to improve job prospects in the fisheries and aquaculture industries – and strengthen regionalisation. this is in harmony with our national aim in the united kingdom to create a fairer and more balanced economy, where new businesses and economic opportunities are more evenly shared between regions and industries. the common fisheries policy now either needs to be urgently and radically reformed and modernised or, frankly, abandoned altogether as an eu competence.
mr president, we have heard concern about the fishing industry from the ppe members, from the irish, from the spanish and the italians and others. i do not think they know what they have been doing today. we know we are overfishing, we know our fish stocks are depleted and yet they voted today for an amendment which says we shall not rebuild our fish stocks. let me repeat that: this house voted by a majority of just five for a ppe amendment, signed by jim higgins and others, which says we shall not attempt to rebuild our fish stocks. i am sure they did that for the best possible reasons – give the fishing industry another year, do not make it too difficult by cutting the quotas – but only when you rebuild fish stocks, give a bit of room for the fish to breathe and to grow and to multiply, that is the only way in which the fishing industry is going to have a secure future. i do not know what our citizens out there will think. they will think the people over there are utterly mad to have done that. of course we need the fish stocks rebuilding. it is utterly mad. they have two months in which to rethink before we have to consider the legislation and vote for it finally.
mr president, this report provides an overview of parliament’s response to the commission’s suggestions for reform of the common fisheries policy. i support the general thrust of the measures for conservation in marine biology. but this own-initiative report has given us just a little peek into how the arguments are going to be played out in the coming months. we have just seen a little bit of it now. there will be arguments and compromises over words. we have seen it here in the amendment attempting to change wording from levels above maximum sustainable yield (msy) to close to msy. there will be the liberal use of euphemisms, such as ‘renewal’, when what we are really talking about is giving public money to replace boats, making them bigger with higher capacity and not necessarily doing anything for the conservation of fish stocks. i am committed to working on common fisheries policy reform towards sustainability, but unfortunately, due to the amendments, i was not able to support this report.
in writing. − ukip voted against this report as it is yet more eu legislation over criminal law. the eu has no democratic right to legislate in this area and law-making should be left to elected politicians, accountable to the public, not unelected foreign commissioners in brussels. of course, victims of crime should have the strongest rights and legal protection, but that is already afforded in uk law and “minimum standards” at eu level may well create a race to the bottom which makes our criminal justice system weaker. withdrawal from the eu, european court of human rights and the european court of justice would be a major step forward for victims of crime seeking swift and proportional justice.
in writing. − i welcome this report. with this report victims will have the right to have access, through a dedicated office that will be created in each member state, to compensation and practical resources like medical support, legal advice, interpretation and translation. the legislation ensures that all measures are taken to minimise the difficulties faced by uk citizens who become victims of crime.
in writing. − this report is a step towards the creation of a common eu framework for the minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. there are 30 million criminal offences recorded annually in the eu each year and all too often victims and their families are denied critical information and support in their time of need. we urgently need a fast and simple eu system for victims, which explains their rights to them, gives them information in their own language and provides essential support to families and victims. this law is a tribute to campaigners like gary dunne’s parents and maggie hughes, who have turned personal tragedy into a commitment that others will not face the challenges they did. i hope this new law will ensure that vulnerable young women are not subjected to additional trauma in order to get justice. i hope the british government will maintain its opt-in to this law and not give in to the eurosceptics, denying british victims of crime vital protection. labour euro mps are committed to strengthening the rights of victims and therefore voted in favour of this report. we will continue our work to ensure that this new law lives up to campaigners’ calls.
in writing. − this report, which has my full support, will help minimise the difficulties faced by eu citizens when they become victims of crime in an eu country other than their own. as a result of this legislation, each member state will provide specialist support services for foreign crime victims, including free translation and interpretation services and access to information on any medical help that may be required in the aftermath of the incident. this report will be instrumental in ensuring that the 15% of eu citizens who are estimated to become victims of crime each year while travelling or working within the eu receive the support they should rightly be entitled to.
in writing. − this law will provide vital protection to uk citizens who are unfortunate enough to be the victim of a crime in another eu country. being the victim of a crime is always a traumatic experience, but it is even more so when the crime takes place in a different country, away from the support of family and friends and where victims may not speak the language. the proposals will cover victims of human trafficking, sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, violence against women, terrorism, hate crimes and organised crime. however, anyone who is a victim of any sort of crime in one of the eu’s 27 member states can now expect to receive the same minimum level of treatment and care wherever the crime takes place. the law will ensure that victims have access to medical and legal support, compensation and, crucially, interpretation and translation services, so that they are not left confused and distressed and feeling unable to access justice due to a failure to understand another country’s legal system.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur who urges the removal of references concerning the committee procedure to the future aligned single cmo regulation and insertion of such provisions directly into this amending regulation. this will mirror modifications to application of written procedure laid down in trade omnibuses. furthermore, it will ensure that the right of scrutiny of implementing acts necessary for the administration of the quota arrangements referred to in this regulation remains within the remit of the committee on international trade.
in writing. − i voted for this technical report. the objective of the commission proposal consists in aligning three council regulations in the field of imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the post-lisbon regime of implementing acts and delegated acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu).
in writing. − ukip supports free trade and especially welcomes reductions in barriers to trade with our commonwealth friends. these reports remove technical barriers to trade and thus make it easier to trade with our commonwealth kith and kin, and thus we can support it.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with australia has been negotiated by the commission with the stated objective of improving and simplifying the functioning of the mra, which entered into force on 1 january 1999. mras are agreements on the mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. an mra gives each of its parties the authority to test and certify products against the regulatory requirements of the other party, in its own territory and prior to export. hence, mras seek to lift technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of each party. the mra with australia provides, in its main body, for general rules governing the setting up of conformity assessment bodies, as well as specific rules applicable to the various sectors covered (in sectoral annexes).
in writing. − i welcome this agreement with new zealand. a parallel agreement amending the mra with australia, which is identical, has also been proposed.
in writing. − i voted for this report in the hope that the sanctions that this report will enable will help to bring an end to the disgraceful situation that is ongoing between the eu, iceland and the faroe islands over the issue of the mackerel catch. the eu has in its reform of the cfp spent the past three years talking about sustainable fishing and the rebuilding of fish stocks. mackerel is a very sustainable stock, in fact it was so well managed that it was awarded accreditation for sustainable management. following the unilateral hike in the mackerel catch by iceland and the faroe islands the stock has been overfished and has had its accreditation suspended and we are now in danger of destroying the fishery and the industry around it. all reasonable attempts at mediation over the past two years have simply failed. we need to be able to employ reasonable sanctions against those who ignore negotiations. i hope this report will strengthen the commission’s hand and i will be monitoring the commission’s actions closely following today’s vote.
in writing. − the eu’s controversial policy of allowing dead fish caught over-quota to be thrown back in the sea, so-called fish discards, is finally being brought to an end through a number of reforms to its common fisheries policy. however, unsustainable fishing practices are likely to continue outside the eu. this report therefore calls for the eu to use sanctions against countries who fish unsustainably on fish stocks that are of importance to the eu. this would allow it to prohibit imports of fish that have been caught unsustainably. given the recent actions taken by iceland and the faroe islands, where they have set themselves mackerel quotas that are way above their historical levels, i can add my support to this proposal.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. the aim of which is for a commission regulation is to promote cooperation between states in order to establish truly sustainable fishing practices which conserve fish stocks and ensure their optimal use. to achieve this, the european union needs to have suitable and effective tools so it can impose sanctions on states which are responsible for measures and practices that lead to over-exploitation of stocks or which do not cooperate in good faith by taking agreed management measures.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this important resolution, which will allow the commission to take action against countries who fail to cooperate with the eu in its pursuit of preserving sustainable fish stocks. this is a particular necessity in light of the current dispute over the overfishing of mackerel in the north east atlantic, and will empower the eu to ban imports of fish originating from stocks it considers to have been fished in an unsustainable manner. at a time when many species are under threat, it is imperative that we take this opportunity to work towards the common goal of preserving fish stocks for the future.
in writing. − this is an important piece of legislation as it will allow the eu to impose sanctions on countries that fish unsustainably on fish stocks that are important to the eu. the eu will now be able to prohibit imports of fish that it considers to have been fished unsustainably by the exporting country. certain states have so far been unwilling to enact internationally agreed measures to preserve fish stocks but, as a major market for fish products, the eu is well placed to challenge them. this legislation will enable us to do that.
in writing. − whilst there are certainly some positive aspects to this report, i have abstained on the final vote. the cfp must have small fishing industries at its heart and not become a tool of big business. whilst addressing some important concerns, such as that of discards, i believe that there should be more of an emphasis on small communities and ensuring the future of the sector and coastal communities.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal and legislative resolution because i believe the common fisheries policy cannot be reformed, least of all by its authors (the commission). it has caused such damage to the industry and to fish that it is irreformable. i believe that power on this policy, as on others, should be returned to the member states.
in writing. − ukip abstained on the final vote of this report. although there are elements to cfp reform which will give a small bit of relief to the fishing industry – and any changes to the current disastrous cfp rules is a step forward for the industry which the eu itself has destroyed – the only way we can save our stocks and fishing industry is to scrap the cfp altogether and repatriate it back to national governments accountable by the ballot box. the eu has no democratic mandate to create law in the uk and we cannot legitimise the process. ukip did support amendments which decentralised power back to member states and those which would cut red tape and costs to our fishing industry.
in writing. − this report forms part of the eu’s legislative proposals to reform its common fisheries policy. by encouraging greater decentralisation of fisheries policy, through its regionalisation proposals, this report shall bring an end to brussels’ flawed micromanagement of our fish stocks. this report specifically looks at the role of producer organisations and their ability to counteract the power of big retailers, whose monopoly has helped to contribute to the over-fishing of our stocks. by empowering producer organisations, we will encourage sustainable practices. producer organisations will also be encouraged to promote an end to fish discards through using selective gear, and any financial reward for landing fish caught over-quota will be kept at a level that disincentivises a new market for by-catch. furthermore, new labelling measures will help consumers to be better informed, allowing them to vote with their feet when it comes to sustainable fishing. this report is therefore to be strongly welcomed.
in writing. − i voted for this report which among other things states that sustainable fishing practices should be rewarded with an eu eco-label.
in writing. − this legislation is part of the reform of the common fisheries policy and will help boost the competitiveness of the industry, reduce the level of discards and introduce ‘eco-labelling’, so that consumers have more information on the sustainability of their fish. i also voted in favour of an amendment that would have given consumers more information on the fish they are buying, including the date it was caught, rather than just when it was landed. under current rules, fish can be kept on ice on a fishing boat for several days before being landed, but be labelled with the same date as those caught and landed the same day. research shows this is something that uk consumers want, and would have allowed them to tell how fresh their fish really is, as well as support smaller-scale fishing boats.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which welcomes the decision for the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights who should have a substantial mandate to mainstream human rights across the cfsp, the csdp and other eu policies and to provide visibility and coherence to the eu’s action in this field.
in writing. − i remain wholly opposed to the idea of transferable fishing concessions, and instead want to see a cfp that focuses on promoting a prospering industry which enhances rural communities and ensures them for future generations. i feel that this report does not focus on this, and places a dangerous emphasis on tfcs, that is why i have voted against it.
in writing. − in the commission’s recent report on efforts concerning the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in member states, and current fishing capacity, it was concluded that member states’ actions were insufficient in their attempts to re-build fish stocks and reduce fleet capacity. this subsequent parliament report responds by calling for a definition of overcapacity at eu level, and the need to establish long-term management plans for all eu fisheries. it is of significant public interest to reform the common fisheries policy so that we see an end to fish discards and a more regionalised decision-making process. i therefore add my support to this report’s efforts to return sustainable fishing practices to our waters.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because i could not support its call for the destruction of seals and seabirds.
in writing. − this report, which i have supported, calls for a number of measures to promote sustainable fishing in eu waters. stock conservation is a main concern: the report establishes that there is a direct link between discards and overfishing and thus suggests that a discard ban should be introduced on a fishery-by-fishery basis. furthermore, fishing paraphernalia should be optimised to eliminate by-catches of juveniles and non-targeted species as much as possible. the suggestions outlined in this report represent an important contribution to the debates surrounding the conservation of fish stocks in the eu.
in writing. − whilst including many good elements, such as the importance of encouraging new generations to take up fishing, i believe that this report, as an overarching communication does not go far enough to address issues such as discards, overfishing, preserving the rural way of life and sustainability. i think any overarching communication regarding the future of the cfp needs to be clear on these issues and because of this i have abstained.
in writing. − this is an own initiative report, which is non-legislative and not binding on the eu commission. ukip voted against this although we do agree with ideas such as the use of selective fishing gear, the move towards discards and we share concerns over the proposed system of ‘transferable fishing concessions’ – we cannot support calls for more powers for eu fishing agencies, the creation of eu rules as to how scientists should collect data or eu propaganda campaigns aimed at schoolchildren. the cfp has been an economic and environmental disaster and we supported amendments which will help our fishing industry, but until the cfp is scrapped and fishing regulation is given back to elected governments, our fish stocks and industry will continue to suffer. fishing regulation should be created by politicians accountable to the people by the ballot box, not the unelected commission of the eu.
in writing. − the current common fisheries policy has been much criticised for its impact on eu fish stocks, creating an economically fragile industry. this overarching report encompasses a number of areas, urging the commission to strengthen its measures concerning marine biological resources, the collection of data, job prospects, socio-economic sustainability and the aquaculture industry. in particular i commend its proposals regarding regionalisation. this will see a move away from micromanagement at eu level and allow regions the necessary flexibility to adapt the proposals to their specific needs. it should also allow greater involvement of industry and stakeholders. reform to the eu’s common fisheries policy is long overdue. as such, i welcome this report.
in writing. − i support the opening sentiment in this resolution that the european parliament ‘considers the prime objective of any fisheries policy to be to ensure the supply of fish to the public and the development of coastal communities, promoting employment and better working conditions for fishing professionals while seeking to establish resources on a sustainable footing which makes for proper conservation’.
in writing. − today i voted wholeheartedly for reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). led by british conservatives, we in the ecr group have been urging the commission for a long time to back a policy that moves decision making away from unelected brussels officials to the people actually doing the job – those engaged in our local fishing industry. we will continue to urge the commission to back reforms that strengthen measures for the conservation of marine resources, strengthen our british fisheries industry and move away from the current over-centralised system. i have always said that cfp was bad for our fishermen and even worse for the fish. we are achieving some improvement but our eventual goal should be repatriation of cfp.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, romania provides a case study of the trials of transition from communism – a president alleged to have been a member of the securitate, a political class so fearful of the files that they fail to publish the past, a culture which 20 years on has still not shaken off all of the corruption of communism. from this recent episode no party, the european union included, emerges with much credit. commissioner reding, this was not in any sense a coup d’état, even in your phrase ‘a parliamentary coup d’état’. a majority of members of a democratically elected assembly voted to impeach a president with a long history of abusing his office, for trying to turn a parliamentary democracy into a presidential fiefdom. the constitutional court declared the procedure for suspending the president to be constitutional. the president himself accepted the procedure when he went to parliament to answer questions. what happened then is almost the stuff of fairy tales. it leads many of us to agree with emil constantinescu in his letter to president schulz that the current mandate of the president of romania is unlawful. in romania, appointments to public positions are too often partisan. the president has protected his post by placing his pals in positions of power. transparency international, freedom house and others have warned against the gradual reversal of the rule of law. not for the first time, president băsescu faced impeachment. when he had the referendum law changed, against the advice of the venice commission, his friend the ombudsman rejected a petition to challenge the move at the constitutional court. in no other eu country is a vote invalid if fewer than half the people participate. so why did the commission insist on it for romania? in any other country, if over 85% vote for a president to go, that president is toast. part of the problem is that the european people’s party, keen to boost its majority position, has welcomed into its fold people such as berlusconi, borisov and băsescu – europe’s b team, playing fast and loose with the rule of law but all part of the epp and all protected by the epp. europe’s socialists have decided to move their congress this year from bucharest to brussels. we know the epp has no such sense of shame since they gave prime minister orbán a five-minute standing ovation. (applause) they are on the same slippery slope with saakashvili. i remind you of the words of your own konrad adenauer: god placed limits on man’s wisdom but not on his stupidity. unless all europe’s parties are scrupulous in their insistence on the finer points of democracy and the rule of law, europe’s future is in peril. the best thing for romania would be new elections both for parliament and the president, following the advice of the venice commission, and then a convention between all parties to set some ground rules about how to behave in a democracy. and the european union, commissioner reding, might also reflect on the advantage of parliaments over presidential systems. (applause)
mr president, i am sorry but i object. i was quite happy not to come in and reply to mr protasiewicz, but you must know that rule 149(8) of the rules of procedure of in this house sets no limitation on meps’ interventions in debate. i respect your wish to bring the debate to a close, i respect the fact that you have to follow a timescale, but under the rules you could have allowed both ms macovei and me to come in.
author. − mr president, commissioner, problems with the democratic legitimacy, accountability and timing of the various proposals on the banking union were foreseen. unfortunately my concerns have now increased in other areas. this is important because there is a single-market cost benefit in making the european central bank the euro zone supervisor. i am concerned that this benefit is now more marginal. we will, of course, aim to rebalance that. given the treaty provisions – which i must say now look extremely deficient in the area of financial services – i supported the ecb as euro zone supervisor in the interests of credibility. however, we should not pretend that this is a mutualisation that gives over the pockets of the ecb to backing euro zone banks. the only back-up is the european stability mechanism (esm), which is in fact dubious and indirect now. after that, in terms of accountability, it is the pockets of the member states that are relevant. regarding the proposals themselves, parliament must be fully involved in both pieces of legislation. there are ways that this can be done, and the moral pressure is enormous. we are turning the ecb into the banking supervisor at a time of crisis and a time when the ecb itself has moved centre stage in both economic and political events. furthermore, given that the transfer of power to the ecb is not comfortable for many member states – indeed maybe not for the majority of them – nor easy to balance in terms of single market procedures and accountability, it is all the more important that this directly elected house be seen to play a strong role beyond that of merely giving an opinion. i acknowledge that you, commissioner, and president barroso have both spoken of this being treated as a package. with regard to accountability, parliament’s role must stretch beyond occasional hearings in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i have conspicuously defended the independence of the ecb in monetary policy, but this must not inhibit due process on the supervisory side. we do not expect regulatory failure but, in such an event, an inquiry has to be possible. without such inquiries we would not have found out about many aspects of the financial crisis and what went wrong. waiving independence in this respect would help to demonstrate the separation of the supervisory side of the ecb from the monetary policy side. on disciplinary matters, the procedure should, as far as possible, mirror the norms of national procedures. the ecb will, in effect, be prosecutor and judge, with the possibility of review by the european court of justice. if a banking licence is at stake then this review procedure is not fast enough. when it comes to procedures for hearings, the econ committee has more than once indicated dissatisfaction with the dg comp hearing process and the lack of clarity in charges and evidence. i do not wish to see that as the model to follow. more work needs to be done to protect the single market. a duty of care must be required from the ecb in relation to the single market, in the same way that it is required of the commission. the interaction of the ecb and the european banking authority (eba) needs adjustment to make sure that it is fair to all parties, and i know how difficult that will be. the ecb must adopt an outward-looking approach: for example, supervising all banks, including branches of third-country megabanks. that is a role for an international supervisor. there is, of course, also an issue of ensuring gender balance on the supervisory board. having the chair and vice-chair selected from the ecb’s men-only pool is not satisfactory. finally, supervisory policy is a matter for the single market and the eba, not just the ecb. a single rulebook is no longer sufficient: we must have a single supervisory handbook, compiled using the expertise of supervisors from across the union under the auspices of the eba.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i rise somewhat wearily to explain yet again the banking crisis to this house. banks lend long, but borrow short. central banks encourage malpractice by printing money – counterfeiting by any other name. politicians use this fake money to prop up corporate and social welfare, basically bribing people with their own money. financial regulation has become a shield to protect crooked bankers, while politicians, central and commercial banks spend money they do not have. the problem will simply fester. so what of banking union? will national parliaments have any say? i take this opportunity to ask, as there are british conservative colleagues in the house tonight, will cameron stop this? will he invoke article 127 of the teu or will he, as form suggests, sit like a paralysed rabbit in the eu’s headlights?
mr president, today’s debate on a euro zone banking unit is the content of an oral question and now even though i have seen the commission’s proposals it seems all i still have are questions. how are the non-euro zone member states’ banks going to interact within euro zone countries? how will cross-border and third country relationships in the financial services be treated? how will the single market and the single rule book for the 27 be preserved and how is the eba (the european banking authority) going to function with 17 members represented by a single body balanced against the other ten? solving the constitutional quandary will not be easy, and in doing so i hope that the commissioner will be able to answer all of these questions to the satisfaction of this house and all 27 governments. the eu treaty article being used might seem convenient to redistribute the powers of supervision, but the barrier of unanimity is going to be a difficult safeguard to overcome. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – dr swinburne, do you share my concern as to how the ecb will maintain its independence when it is being asked to follow commission-initiated legislation and potentially submit to binding mediation by the eba?
, blue-card answer. – it does seem that, if the ecb is being asked to actually supervise the euro zone banks, then it is going to be acting as a supranational competent authority. that would suggest that it has to submit to binding mediation. of course the powers of the eba come under delegated powers from the commission so it really is – as i guess i commented earlier – a constitutional quandary. i am not sure i have the answers to it yet and i hope someone else does.
mr president, a central bank does need the power to oversee banks. in the uk, the socialist government gave away that power and it was a very expensive mistake. therefore, the euro zone central bank supervision of euro zone banks makes some sense for the euro zone but not for those of us who are outside the euro zone. also you cannot have strong supervision without strong rules. in our backroom negotiations on banking rules we are going round and round in circles. sometimes a single rulebook is far from a single market and it feels as if, within that market, each market stallholder is setting their own standards. sometimes those are far from the global minimum standards. in the cross-border world of banking that exposes us all to risk. the uk supported the eba to be a police enforcer to pull up standards across the single market. we must not confuse the role of the ecb as supervisor with that of the eba as single market enforcer. votes matter. if the ecb was to block-vote against the non-euro zone member states and that was perceived as trying to drop standards within europe, then that would undermine the euro zone even further. so the votes will matter. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card question. – mr president, could i ask ms ford whether she shares my concern? in september 2007, it was announced that there was a run on northern rock. five years after that run began, does she share my concern that these proposals appear to be too vague in terms of ensuring that banks will never again be bailed out with taxpayers’ money?
blue-card answer. – absolutely, and that is why every time commissioner barnier has come to our committee and i have been able to ask him the question ‘will we implement basel standards in europe?’ he has answered ‘yes, but we are still not there’. in the uk that is why we are reforming banks, so that we will not have to bail them out, because we are putting in a ring fence. we must have the ability to implement the global standards and allow member states to go further if they need to.
blue-card question. – mr langen, it is very good to hear you saying that you want to have a single market and a single set of rules. i too agree we need a single set of minimum rules, but would you also say that your vote for those single rules was dependent on ensuring it did not cover smaller banks? therefore those rules are ok provided they did not cover the small banks in germany? small banks can have big risks.
rapporteur. − mr president, the eu has historically given one-sided preferences to our acp partners. that was challenged in the wto and we had a wto waiver until 2007 which allowed us to continue to give those one-sided preferences. that should have expired if all epas (economic partnership agreements) had been signed, but they had not so we had then to pass the market access regulation 1528/2007 to provide a bridging solution and this has since allowed duty-free and quota-free access for the 36 acp countries that have initialled epas but not yet signed or ratified them. the european commission now believes that this temporary solution should come to an end and their proposal is to remove this preferential access on 1 january 2014. in my view, mr president, the commission is half correct. it is true that the regulation was a temporary solution and it is therefore reasonable that an end date should be set. it is also fair to the other developing countries outside the acp who see countries at a similar economic level to them getting benefits that they are denied. however, i believe that we have to see this proposal in the context of the current climate of economic partnership agreement negotiations. we must not create the perception, fair or otherwise, that we are bullying african countries into signing and ratifying epas without giving them enough time for careful consideration. that is why the trade committee has put forward the deadline of 1 january 2016 which gives due notice to the acp countries that their preferences must come to an end but also, in my view, gives a realistic timescale to complete negotiations. now some colleagues have said to me in the course of the debate that this is yet another extension of the deadline. colleagues, it is not, because we have never had a deadline until now, so this is the first proposal for a deadline and if passed it is important to understand that it will be set in stone, because no change to this deadline could take place without a further commission proposal and without the agreement of both parliament and council; and i suggest that it is unlikely that the commission would bring forward another proposal. the commission believes that the 2014 deadline would give momentum to the epa negotiations. i have to say, having spoken to colleagues in many of the countries that are affected, i believe the opposite to be the truth. most of them regard 2014 as an unreasonable target. if we were to vote for 2014 we are, in my opinion, excluding 17 countries from the scheme. they would simply not be able to meet that 2014 deadline, whereas 2016 sets a firm but achievable target. so for organisational reasons, for political reasons and for reasons of economics, i think 2016 is a workable and achievable deadline, and i hope even at this stage we can persuade the commission that this is a good target to set. they get their objective of a firm end date to the preferences but we also give our partners a reasonable negotiating timetable.
blue-card question. – mr president, i wonder whether i could ask mr fjellner, who talked in his speech about fairness, whether he considers it is fair to force those countries that would choose not to take part in an economic partnership agreement, and who do not believe in a one-size-fits-all approach to trade, to disallow that preferential treatment. is it also fair that poorer countries do not have preferential treatment because they simply refuse to sign up to an economic partnership agreement? do you really believe that is fair?
mr president, my main concern with this proposal is that it puts pressure on governments of acp countries to sign and ratify the respective epas, whether or not contentious provisions and issues have been resolved. the epa must effectively address some of the most fundamental challenges many acp countries are facing, for example regional integration, and europe is well placed to know that that integration takes time. as chair of the delegation for relations with south africa, i am particularly concerned that a satisfactory agreement for all is found on the sadc epa. for the moment, both sides seem to be in a dead end and neither seems to be able to find its way out, so therefore a deadline like this could be an impetus, but it could be a guillotine that does not serve those most in need. i therefore fully support david martin’s recommendation for a 2016 deadline as i believe this is a fair compromise for all parties, especially in this year which will be a litmus test for relations between the eu and its african and pacific partners as we are also reviewing the cotonou agreement, the european development fund and the development cooperation instrument. we must get this right.
rapporteur. − mr president, the commissioner has to explain to the house why some countries who initialled epas have not gone on to ratify them and this is because, as mr cashman and mr schulz and others have indicated, one of the key aims of epas is supposed to be about regional integration and we have put some countries in positions which, if not impossible, are at least difficult. take kenya: if it was looking after its own economic interests, kenya would ratify an epa, but if kenya ratified an epa unilaterally it would break its relationship with the east africans. and we put them in this position where either they break the relationship with east africa or they suffer economic costs. their cut flower industry is vital to them; that industry will face massive tariffs if they do not sign up for an epa and we pass this regulation. at the same time this commission and probably this parliament are going to pass the colombia free trade agreement which is going to give trade preferences on cut flowers to their biggest rival, colombia. so it is a double whammy against kenya. we are not asking them to give them protection in perpetuity but we are at least saying give them two or three years in order to find a solution that encompasses both their objective of signing an epa and staying within their east african regional partnership. i have not got time to go into the others but south africa is the same; botswana and namibia have the same pressure in terms of their relationship with south africa. commissioner, my view is simple. you want 2014 because you think this gives momentum to the negotiations. i do not want 2014 because i think it does exactly the opposite. firstly it will sour the mood in terms of our relationship with the acp countries and secondly i think it is an impossible deadline to meet. so all we are saying as a house to you is, let us not rush this, let us set a deadline. and i will repeat what i said at the beginning: that deadline would be set in concrete. it is not a flexible deadline; it is not one that is moveable once we pass the legislation. 2016 is not unreasonable; it gives african countries time to come into line and at the same time makes us, i hope, look a bit more reasonable and a bit less impatient.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i suspect i will feel a little bit like banquo’s ghost in this debate, in that my group is manifestly not as content or happy with the outcome of this process as other groups. i would record my appreciation to our rapporteur, who has worked very hard on this, the shadows also, but the fact is we could have done better. i gently suggest to mr dorfmann that, if you support the text of our amendment, then support it now. we are the colegislator on agricultural issues. if we could have done better than we have achieved at present, let us stick to our guns and deliver more for our quality products than is on the table. i do not think we have won anything like what we could have won had we stuck to our original ambitions within the committee. that is not to say that there are not things to admire; there are steps forward and that is positive. we see that the council is not here today, as mr dorfmann says, and they have not treated us well throughout this process. amendment 87 was a key priority for our committee, but it was not taken seriously enough. we have retabled it as amendment 103, and i do urge colleagues to support it. if that means that we do not get a first-reading agreement, then we come back as colegislator to do our job. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – thank you for that question. i understand german well enough, but i had to use the headphones for that. the commitment of our group to this process has been total. if you are making a reference to a meeting that i may have missed, well, all colleagues miss meetings from time to time and we all have other things to do in other places. that in no way weakens the commitment or involvement of our group in these discussions, or the commitment to amendment 87 on behalf of all our parties. i would have thought that, if it was a priority in the committee vote, it should have been a priority within the trialogue negotiations. it was not treated seriously by the council, which has not treated this parliament with the respect a colegislator deserves. we could do better than is on the table at present.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this report potentially offers a very good opportunity for agriculture. by improving the quality of agricultural output, not only will the supply side move agriculture away from the production of basic raw-material commodities, for which it receives basic raw-material prices, but there will also be an opportunity to add real value to the products. the types of strategy that might come into play here include building and exploiting regional identities, building and exploiting brands and points of differentiation, and better marketing of products whether that be through cooperation, strategic alliances or moving closer to the marketplace. these strategies do not just add considerably to producers’ incomes, they can also create and sustain a large number of jobs in the rural sector, they contribute strongly to growth in the rural economy, and they will significantly reduce dependence on subsidy support from the common agricultural policy. however, i have two criticisms of this report. first, it is too focused on the domestic or european market. we should not forget that european products possess some of the best-recognised and strongest identities in the world, but that export potential is not being fully exploited at the present time. i therefore suggest that we should be doing more to help stimulate this important trade. second, we are keen to support and encourage regional and producer organisations. but such organisations should not be empowered to restrict or control output levels. in practice, that would amount to an unofficial quota system which, in the short term, would be anti-competitive and, in the long term, would mean missing opportunities for efficiency gains and wider market exploitation.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done on this important subject. northern ireland has, to date, three protected geographical indications: the early comber potato, the armagh bramley apple and the lough neagh eel. while i welcome the official recognition of these products, there must be adequate safeguards in place to protect not only the standing of the products but also the scheme itself. this report goes some way to addressing that. if quality schemes are to be meaningful and useful in the marketing of products, then it is imperative that those products retain their authenticity. this is especially true of products that require traditional production steps but must also be manageable in today’s global market. it is important too that the registration and monitoring of those using quality schemes must be fit for purpose but not restrictive. the success of a quality scheme will depend on its capacity to stay relevant to the consumer and to add value whilst maintaining exclusivity and regional brand identity. finally, while we continue to improve quality schemes in the eu, i think parliament and the commission should do more to protect eu citizens from poor-quality imports which do not meet the same high standards, and should put an end to the hypocrisy in this regard and the unfair competition for our farmers.
mr president, i too welcome the agreement on this legislative package on quality products. hopefully the package should streamline and simplify the administration and bureaucracy faced by organisations and farmers wishing to register quality products. the package should hopefully speed up the process, as well as giving stronger powers to producer organisations in marketing their quality food produced in the eu. and, as richard ashworth pointed out, there are tremendous opportunities to add value and hopefully give a greater return to producers through that adding of value. i believe it was a correct decision to separate out the proposal for supply control to be given to producer organisations, to allow the rest of the package to be agreed. this contentious proposal can now be discussed as part of the single cmo package. i would personally like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs garcía pérez, for all the hard work she has undertaken to progress this dossier. while i completely disagreed with the supply control part of the package, i am very happy to support the efforts made to strengthen and improve eu quality policy.
mr president, first of all i would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for all her hard work on this report. i am only too well aware that this file has been subject to very tricky and intricate negotiations. it has not been easy, by any means, but it is good that we have managed to reach a final agreement. i think that quality production is a great way to add value to what is being produced on our farms throughout the european union and therefore will, hopefully, increase the profit margins of the producers and all involved in the supply chain. in this regard, it is definitely something that our agriculture sector should be exploring as part of the strategy, in order to ensure its future growth and sustainability especially in relation to exports. however, i am a bit wary about the issue of supply management and i seriously doubt whether the measure will prove to be of any benefit to farmers. i would therefore certainly advise the house to vote against mr smith’s amendment 103.
mr president, i would like to join with everyone else in thanking the rapporteur. you never get everything you want from a trialogue but in this case i believe she has done a pretty good job. my member state, the uk, has not historically always been at the front of the queue when it came to applying for and using these quality schemes, but we are catching up very fast. these provisions will make it easier to continue with this trend. i am particularly pleased with the agreement on traditional speciality guaranteed products. the commission proposal would have wiped out the majority of uk products with this status and this has now been avoided. i look forward to being involved in the future discussions on the creation of new labels for local farming, which i believe represent real opportunities for food products and food producers and is something that we should get on with as soon as we can once this package is agreed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the commission’s proposals for both the european social entrepreneurship fund and the european venture capital fund as part of the eu action plan are important to help smes access more financial resources across the whole of the eu. these two reports have been specifically drafted to encourage investment in these important sectors. the eu passport for these two brands will allow cross-border business and investment and thus channel money into areas that we know are vitally important to economic growth as well as simultaneously benefiting our whole society. we all agree that stimulating growth, particularly in the sme sector, is intrinsic to our economic recovery. the committee negotiations have been carried out in an inclusive spirit which has continued into the trialogue discussions. it is therefore a shame that negotiations have deteriorated. i believe that all political groups are keen to see successful implementation of these two reports. it is therefore a pity that this has been stalled with the addition of a topic that many argue is not immediately essential to the eu venture capital and entrepreneurship fund debate. the global issue of tax evasion and the definition of tax havens, especially in light of the global economic situation, must be addressed. there is widespread acknowledgement of this and indeed the commission has promised to come up with specific proposals. it is not standard practice, however, nor indeed parliament’s right, to set tax policies within the financial services regulation. whatever our aspirations, we must be careful that we do not cause more harm than good. of course we should look at tax havens, but at the right time with the right people on the right dossiers. there is a strong majority in the council against the addition of article 3. our priority surely should be to pass these two reports without delay, taking full advantage of the agreements and improvements that the parliament has already successfully negotiated in trialogue. we can then address tax evasion in the appropriate manner following commission proposals. if we are serious about stimulating growth, we must allow this legislation on the social entrepreneurship and venture capital funds to come to fruition.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when is a hot potato not a hot potato? well, when we are talking about the eu free trade agreements with andean countries, the hot potato, for once, is not human rights but bananas. as with all trade agreements, we need to ensure that by opening our markets we allow european companies and producers time to adapt to increased competition. i welcome the safeguard regulations in the ftas with colombia and peru and with central america, as well as most of the changes introduced by the committee on international trade. however, we have had long and bitter experience with banana wars, so we should be careful not to slip on another banana skin by creating further battles. my group, the liberals and democrats, will vote against the amendments which, by sleight of hand, change the banana limits into automatic quotas. we need to give the commission the flexibility to decide, for example, if a surge in banana imports from colombia or costa rica is harming eu banana producers or if it is simply compensating for reduced production in other parts of the world. that is not to say that we should give the commission carte blanche. indeed i strongly endorse the amendments which afford civil society and parliament a stronger voice, so that the commission is closely monitored and the views of ordinary citizens are respected in the whole process.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, can i start by thanking mr häfner for his work as rapporteur. i am very pleased to say that my group supports this agreement. this house has important work to do in holding the commission and the council to account. it is important that we ensure that taxpayers’ money is well spent and that the laws and policy of the eu are carried out as they should be, in an open and transparent manner. this agreement with the council is of a broadly similar nature to the one that already exists with the commission, and i welcome that. we have to balance the need for transparency with the legitimate right of nation states to the confidentiality of some documents, and i believe that this agreement achieves that balance, so i am very pleased to support the report. i think it will lead to better governance of the european union.
rapporteur. − madam president, may i firstly start by thanking my shadow colleagues who were very helpful throughout this ongoing process of reform that we are attempting to carry out. it is safe to say that we are not in the enviable position of having the perfect acquis. where we need freedom we find recommendations, green papers and communications, yet where we need action – such as the completion of the single market – efforts are sidelined by delayed implementation and long-awaited follow-up reports. too often the added value achieved by taking action at the european level is lessened by heavy-handed obligations or ill-conceived provisions. these may originate at the incubation stage in the commission and find themselves added during parliament or council readings or through gold-plating in member states. it is today still occasionally remarked to me that any legislation at the european level is automatically bad: either it imposes excessive or unnecessary burdens, or it removes power from national governments or local authorities, or it fulfils any number of other stereotypes used to describe european legislation. i do not believe that this is true. laws crafted and adopted at the european level help companies across europe and from beyond to establish themselves in the largest market in the world with some 500 million potential customers. i am pleased therefore to present my report today, which i view as the latest in a number of steps which parliament has taken to drive forward the better law-making agenda. within the report i have made several key messages become clear. the commission as initiator of legislation, the council as co-legislator and the member states as implementers should all take on board initiatives which we ourselves as a parliament have put forward. firstly, concerning subsidiarity, i am very pleased to note that national parliaments have for the very first time been able to raise a yellow card procedure, which has hastened the withdrawal by the commission of the monti ii proposal. it is encouraging that national parliaments have been able to finally take ownership of this avenue for expressing their views, but sadly it remains a difficult path to take successfully. all too often brussels is described as a distant and inaccessible bureaucracy, imposing rules from afar. it becomes an easy punchbag in domestic politics, where unwelcome decisions are disowned and cast as brussels calamities whilst positive achievements are reclaimed and touted as national triumphs. as rapporteur now for two reports on better law-making, i am keenly aware also of internal problems faced throughout the institutions. for instance, concerning impact assessments. partiality risks fatally undermining this process. i am constantly frustrated by impact assessments accompanying proposals which are clearly prepared to justify a certain policy choice. we must reject entirely policy-based evidence and insist on evidence-based policy-making from the commission. essential in this regard is the impact assessment board within the commission. this is not sufficiently and robustly independent. we must also do our duty here in parliament, and my report calls for systematic engagement by committees and meps with our new internal impact assessment unit in order to aid the committees’ work of scrutinising proposals. i consider that this, in conjunction with the commission’s routine presentation in their impact assessment at any initial exchange of views on legislative dossiers, would represent a significant step forward for evidence-based policy-making in parliament. it is clear that, in cases where european regulations would adversely affect our smallest businesses excessively, legislation should be left to a more local level where national nuisances can be appropriately addressed. we should however look to go further, and i am pleased that parliament is able to affirm its commitments towards extending exemptions beyond micro-entities to small and possibly medium-sized entities where this would be justified. i see that i have run out of time. i will reserve my remaining comments for the two minutes which i get after the debate has taken place.
mr president, how refreshing it is to read a report which makes so much sense. instead of getting out my red pen, i actually agree with a lot of it. yes, we should make international laws only where we actually need international laws; and, yes, where we make laws they should be clear and easy to understand. yes, we need to think much harder about the consequences of our laws. our impact assessments are not good enough, and then parliament flings in amendments without thinking about the consequences. yes, we need to work more closely with our national parliaments and, i would add, our local authorities, who often have to deal with our red tape. yes, we must be aware of the burden of bureaucracy on our small companies and especially on micro-businesses – tiny businesses which, in many cases, should be excluded from much of our international law. so these are great words and i congratulate the rapporteur. my only concern is whether or not this house will actually take the actions that are being recommended. well done!
mr president, i suppose we should be grateful for the small mercies of subsidiarity and proportionality. the former tries, with very limited success, to prevent competences being exercised at eu level if they could be more efficiently exercised at member state level. indeed, when can they not? the latter attempts to prevent legislation going beyond, and i quote: ‘what is necessary to achieve the objects of the treaty’. it is a pity we cannot cut off the last seven words and stop at the word ‘necessary’. i would like to see a third principle being applied during the legislative process for as long as we have to put up with eu legislation at all. i would call this principle the ‘cost-benefit rule’ which would require that the calculated benefit of all legislation when quantifiable was equal to or greater than the cost it imposed on business and the public. in december 2009 open europe published a list of the 100 most costly eu laws and calculated the cumulative cost by 2020 to be gbp 184 billion.
rapporteur. − mr president, may i firstly thank all colleagues who took time to contribute to the debate. it is quite clear that there is a very real need for reform of our processes. the greater involvement of national parliaments and parliamentarians is something that needs to be introduced in a streamlined way so that our legislation takes full account of local factors where it is necessary for them to be included, and indeed provides us with much greater scope to decide whether we actually need to legislate at all. non-compliance by some member states, right the way through to gold-plating by others, takes away the very reason for our existence. when we move forward with legislation – and we have a very heavy agenda in this parliament regarding standardisation of processes – genuinely helpful measures become deeply unhelpful because they are applied in different ways. national parliaments today have the opportunity to be involved in our processes right from the outset. therefore, hopefully, we take away their need sometimes to take those actions at a later stage. turning to micro-entities and smes, they are the backbone of the eu’s economy. we can all recall that in 2005 president barroso stood in this very chamber and spoke about the unnecessary burdens that had to be taken away from that section of our economy. i came to this parliament eight years ago from a background in law, business and politics. i knew only too well the burdens placed on smes, sometimes unnecessarily. even now their biggest complaint of unnecessary burdens remains the same and it is justified. it therefore gives me great pleasure to be able to move this report today to ensure that people are aware that we are taking their grievances on board. the circumstances dictate that this work is required. with citizens still feeling we are too distant, national parliamentarians remaining ill-informed of our processes, and a breakdown in confidence in our ability to face the huge challenges our union now has, we must look to see where we can reform and improve. post-lisbon, and prior to the steady march into the unknown as announced by president barroso yesterday, the best we can do is behave in a way our people can support: reform and take our people with us. president barroso’s vision of moving without the people, by diktat, is not fitting for a modern union fit for purpose.
mr president, i came down here this morning to listen to the debate by my colleagues on better legislation and to hear how the commission planned to go about improving it. the echo in this chamber was quite incredible, because there was nobody here to discuss it. this really is the reality of what we have got here in our democratic chamber – a real lack of debate on the pursuit of better legislation. some of my constituents would probably say that having fewer politicians would be the right way forward. but the reality is that the eu needs to be doing less, and it needs to be doing it better. it can start with better legislation or, quite frankly, just less legislation.
mr president, i agree with the referral of this report back to the committee because there is still work to be done. i wish for clarity of certain details regarding the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism. broadly, my points relate to the central american agreement for which i am shadow rapporteur. some of the amendments i wish to be discussed further include a clear definition of ‘a threat of serious deterioration’ for the activation of a safeguard clause on bananas, and of ‘stabilisation mechanism’ as well. they also include the commission’s room for manoeuvre in its application for parliament’s involvement in possible investigations, and the inclusion of additional socio-economic indicators on top of colombian and peruvian export and import statistics for monitoring the effect of the fta. i hope that future trialogue negotiations with the council will help to resolve these issues.
mr president, the association agreement between the eu and central america undoubtedly offers a good deal for both partners, and i fully support it. the opening of markets in industry, agricultural services, government procurement and investment goes further than the commitments undertaken with the world trade organisation and surpasses the existing eur 12 billion trade relationship. while i, for one, believe the bilateral safeguard clause must exist along with the agreement to prevent injury or threat thereof to the eu banana industry, i also believe that, in its current form, it presents a number of problems. these include: the involvement of the european parliament in initiating an investigation in the framework of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism; the lack of a clear definition of ‘threat of serious deterioration’ for activation of the clause; the additional further socio-economic indicators of top colombian and peruvian exports; and import statistics for monitoring the effects of the fta. so i am pleased that this has also been referred back to the committee, and i look forward to discussing these issues. i do not want to see trade agreements literally held up for a bunch of bananas.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group strongly supports the joint text on syria. each day the news about the situation in syria worsens as the violence escalates and the conflict descends further into civil war. it was reported that, last month alone, 5 000 syrians were killed, making it the deadliest month of the conflict so far. according to activist groups, this has pushed the overall death toll up to 26 000 and, what is more, the violence seen in syria last month sadly shows no sign of stopping, as assad-loyal, mainly alawite-led forces continue to rely on air power and heavy weaponry to suppress the rebellion, and iran continues to arm the syrian regime with military equipment and weapons flown through iraqi airspace. sadly, there are now also allegations of atrocities being carried out by the rebel forces and, if they are true, that must also be investigated, and there can be no climate of impunity for anybody carrying out atrocities on either side of the conflict. the ecr extends solidarity to the syrian people who are in desperate need, now more than ever, of significant humanitarian assistance as a result of this ongoing violence. whilst the group resolution calls for a peaceful solution to be found in order to facilitate a political transition, without president al-assad, towards a more stable and democratic syria, speaking personally i would like to find ways of establishing a limited no-fly zone in the border regions and some kind of escape corridors, in order to create a sanctuary for refugees. again speaking personally, i call on the un security council to refer all those responsible for war crimes to the international criminal court, and for russia and china to lift their veto in the security council on tougher sanctions against the ba’athist syrian regime.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group is deeply concerned about the integrity of the justice system in russia. one of the most high-profile cases in the past decade has been that of mikhail khodorkovsky. many legal experts and human rights organisations have condemned the charges against him as politically motivated, especially with regard to his second trial. but with specific reference to the mention in the text of the resolution of the reduction of platon lebedev’s prison sentence by three years, it is important for the house to note that this has been appealed by the prosecutors. the verdict, due on 21 september 2012, will be crucial in determining whether the courts respect the country’s constitutional and international obligations or whether instructions from the executive will prevail. it is also important to point out that the supreme court has referred the appeal by khodorkovsky and lebedev back to the moscow city court, despite a plea by the defence to consider the appeal on its own merits and not to send it back to the moscow court, whose judicial independence is highly questionable. it is unacceptable, in the view of the ecr group, that political prisoners still exist in member states of the council of europe. i am thinking here not only of russia but also of neighbouring ukraine, in particular the case of yulia tymoshenko. the recent disproportionate sentencing of the punk group pussy riot is also the latest in a string of selective justice cases that include the russian supreme court’s prohibition on peaceful falun gong practitioners practising their beliefs. russia is, of course, a very great country and a strategic partner, but it seems to be going backwards as far as democracy and human rights are concerned.
in writing. − i welcome the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement between the european union and the people’s democratic republic of algeria on scientific and technological cooperation.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement. transparency and access to all relevant documents and information is the very basis of and a compulsory precondition for democracy and especially for the european parliament, in order to be able to do its work.
in writing. − on the face of it this contains language which some eurosceptics might approve: ‘underlines the overarching need for legislation to be clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all; stresses that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must be respected by the european institutions when legislating’. the author used to be a libdem mep. hence this document is actually yet another of the collaborationist sort which operates on the basis that the eu is a good thing in principle and only a small degree of reform is needed. it is important to remember that ‘smart legislation’ is no better that any other sort of legislation. it is still passed by the ep .
in writing. − in the current economic climate in which europe finds itself, we need policies that are going to help our businesses to create growth and jobs. by reducing the regulatory burden that businesses face, we can stimulate the economic recovery that europe so desperately needs. i strongly welcome the approach to regulation outlined in this report. better lawmaking will, amongst other things, see smes being supported in their compliance with regulation, allowing them the necessary flexibility to compete with the economies of scale associated with large businesses. i hope this report will also lead to better impact assessments of proposed european legislation, so that lawmakers have the necessary evidence base to make pragmatic decisions. i hope too that the use of ‘regulatory offsetting’, will encourage a situation where ineffective or obsolete regulation is removed. this approach to better lawmaking has my full support.
in writing. − i voted for this report which recalls that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the eu will take action outside its areas of exclusive competence only and insofar as the objectives of a planned measure can better be achieved at union level rather than at national, regional or local level; subsidiarity may, therefore, lead both to an extension of the activities of the union within the framework of its powers when circumstances so require and, conversely, to the action concerned being restricted or curtailed where it is no longer justified. parliament emphasises that subsidiarity, in this context, not only applies to the relationship between the eu and its member states but encompasses as well the regional and local levels; urges the commission to improve and regularise the statements which justify its legislative initiatives on the grounds of subsidiarity; recalls that eu administrative law should be adjusted and simplified in order to reduce administrative and regulatory costs; states that, in this context, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should be applied accordingly.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of this report because it supports infrastructure and transport development in outermost regions. however, i am opposed to the use of project bonds and public-private partnerships to replace what should be public investment.
in writing. − cohesion policy strategy in the atlantic area calls for coordinated action at the eu level, through a macro-regional instrument, to tackle common maritime concerns such as tourism, transport and renewable energy. in my view, any initiatives between the regions concerned should be done on a voluntary basis. an eu atlantic macro-regional strategy would simply add further bureaucracy, with little positive impact on areas of mutual concern such as biodiversity and carbon emissions. furthermore, proposals for an eu coastguard service would merely duplicate existing national provision. any maritime problems between the regions should be addressed by the forthcoming reform of the common fisheries policy, and specifically through its regionalisation proposal. given that my own constituents have not called for greater cooperation with the other regions of the atlantic area, i shall not be supporting this initiative.
in writing. − the atlantic area, covering parts of the uk, ireland, france, spain & portugal, includes a section of my own constituency in south west england. this report on the subject of cohesion policy strategy in the atlantic area calls for coordinated action at the eu level, through a macro-regional instrument, to tackle common maritime concerns such as tourism, transport and renewable energy. in my view, any initiatives between the regions concerned should be done on a voluntary basis. an eu atlantic macro-regional strategy would simply add further bureaucracy, with little positive impact on areas of mutual concern such as biodiversity and carbon emissions. furthermore, proposals for an eu coastguard service would merely duplicate existing national provision. any maritime problems between the regions should be addressed by the forthcoming reform to the common fisheries policy, and specifically through its regionalisation proposal. given that my own constituents have not called for greater cooperation with the other regions of the atlantic area, i shall not be supporting this initiative.
in writing. − i voted for this report which stresses that renewable marine energies comprise an industrial sector for the future that can combat climate change and eu energy dependence, achieve greater energy sustainability within the atlantic regions, and meet the europe 2020 targets. parliament notes that the atlantic area is particularly suitable for the promotion of such energies, and considers that public support is necessary to accompany private investment in the technologies concerned, especially offshore wind energy and wave and tidal energy.
in writing. − this report, which has my full support, puts forward concrete proposals including a suggestion for the atlantic strategy to take the form of a macro-regional strategy. this will go towards promoting synergies among the various instruments allowing for better use of funds. this report impacts on my constituency in wales and i hope that, building up to the launch of the strategy in 2014, public and private atlantic partners are involved in the preparation of an action plan.
in writing. − i am delighted that parliament has backed my deadline of 2016. the 2014 deadline the european commission wanted to impose on acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries was not feasible, and my proposals passed today now give some of the world’s poorest countries another two years to negotiate trading deals with the eu.
in writing. − i welcome this report. stable and secure energy supplies are important to foster a predictable economic environment for citizens and the industrial sector of the european union. the best way to ensure the reliability of energy supplies is via a functioning internal energy market. the introduction of the third energy package has furthered the eu’s efforts to free up the energy market. many member states have unbundled power generation from transmission, which has allowed the entry of new participants in the energy supply market. the third energy package has removed entrance barriers to the energy market and significantly increased its liquidity. although the second and third energy packages still have to be fully implemented, the results in member states where they have been introduced are encouraging. nevertheless, external vulnerabilities remain. the eu imports over 60% of its gas and over 80% of its oil. this import tendency is unfortunately increasing.
in writing. − european agriculture delivers food of great variety, with production methods that are respectful of the environment and of rural communities. the regional diversity of food, the traditional methods of production sometimes going centuries back, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions lead to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world. this must be maintained. the quality package presented by the commission aims to improve the union legislation in the field of quality, as well as in the operation of national and private certification schemes, in order to make them simpler, more transparent and easier to understand, adaptable to innovation, and less burdensome for producers and administrations.
in writing. − our group has submitted an amendment to the trialogue text – we are re-submitting the agriculture committee’s amendment 87 on article 42, which allows the member states to establish rules allowing producer groups to adjust supply to demand of pgi and pdo products where such groups formally make a request. this is in no way a criticism of the excellent work done by the rapporteur, but reflects the political concerns our group has with the compromise. first because we believe that volatility in the markets, seen most dramatically in the milk markets, has to be dealt with through a certain degree of supply management, to ensure that supply and demand do not go out of sync. primarily, this shows our deep disapproval of the attitude of council during trialogue negotiations. amendment 87 was a key demand of the european parliament, yet council refused to even negotiate on the issue. this is unacceptable, especially under codecision, and represents a worryingly uncooperative attitude. the ‘political statement’ we in the committee on agriculture received, promising to discuss supply management under cap reform, lacks legal force. this does not bode well for successful negotiations on cap reform, particularly for supply management.
in writing. − this legislation, which has my full support, will simplify and accelerate the process through which farmers apply for an eu quality label. at present, the commission aims to respond to such requests within twelve months; under this new law the registration time will be reduced to just six. this will benefit both farmers and consumers alike: a speedier and simpler registration process will encourage more food producers to register their products with quality labels schemes, which will in turn allow consumers to make more informed choices about the food they buy. in addition to this, there is a new label recognising the value of foodstuffs produced in mountainous areas. overall, this resolution is instrumental in ensuring that farmers are able to promote the quality and authenticity of their products to consumers more effectively.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. increasingly, as investors also pursue social goals and are not only seeking financial returns, a social investment market has been emerging in the union, comprised in part by investment funds targeting social undertakings. such investment funds provide funding to social undertakings which are acting as drivers of social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, helping to tackle the social consequences of the financial crisis and making a valuable contribution to meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. venture capital provides finance to undertakings that are generally very small, in the initial stages of their corporate existence and display a strong potential for growth and expansion. it is necessary to adopt a regulation establishing uniform rules applicable to the european venture capital funds and imposing corresponding obligations on their managers in all member states that wish to raise capital across the union using the designation ‘european venture capital fund’. these requirements should ensure the confidence of investors that wish to invest in venture capital funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in order to give as strong as possible a mandate to our negotiators to seek to safeguard labour and human rights in the context of the eu-colombia free trade agreement. however, the cuts in state protection for trade unionists, which are putting the lives of those who speak out for human rights at risk, and the draft laws on impunity being proposed by the colombian government, which will see alleged abuses committed by colombian armed forces tried in military rather than civilian courts, are both simply not consistent with international human rights commitments which colombia tells us it respects. if colombia moves away from human rights commitments even as it awaits ratification of the agreement, surely it begs the question as to whether such ratification of this free trade agreement itself should go ahead. in any case, i hope the trialogue will consider these two examples as a test of whether safeguards negotiated would be achieved in practice. i and my labour colleagues will continue to campaign strongly on this issue for the sake of those who put their lives at risk for rights which in europe we take for granted.
in writing. − i supported this report. a bilateral safeguard instrument is designed to provide a safety net where, as a consequence of the trade liberalisation provided for by the fta, industry needs time to adjust to the new conditions. it will therefore only be applicable for a transitional period of ten years after the entry into force of the agreement, or slightly longer for products which are liberalised over more than ten years. in order to be operational, the safeguards need to be incorporated into eu law, the reason behind this regulation.
in writing. − while the eu trade deals supersede those made in member states, it is important to protect and encourage trade in the developing world. the countries in question are largely members of the commonwealth, which offers better protection as an international trading body. however, while the eu stands as a trading bloc it is necessary to protect vulnerable countries and develop the future global market.
in writing. − i welcome this safeguard clause. in october 2011, the commission transmitted to the european parliament and the council a proposal aiming at incorporating into eu law the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas. this proposal for a regulation constitutes therefore the necessary legal instrument to implement such measures and to provide legal certainty to operators by establishing the different procedural aspects, definitions and rights and obligations of the parties, all of which are necessary for such measures to be operational and to effectively provide a gradual opening of the markets to enable all the sectors involved to gradually adapt to the new situation, in particular the most vulnerable.
in writing. − cultural works, whether a book, a film or a piece of music, which do not have an identified author or creator, known as orphan works, provide a useful addition to the preservation of our cultural heritage. this directive will allow such works to be used by libraries and other public institutions for non-commercial use so that access to them can be widened. orphan works will continue to receive copyright protection, and my ecr colleagues and i have worked to ensure there are appropriate safeguards in place if a work is inadvertently designated as orphan. furthermore, we have secured guarantees in the final compromise package that any diligent search carried out to determine whether a work is orphan should be done for each individual work so that the intellectual property rights of authors and creators are fully respected. as such i am happy to support this first reading agreement.
in writing. − this is a welcome proposal. the european union has an exceptionally rich cultural heritage. much of this heritage, however, lies unused in the archives and libraries of the member states and is inaccessible to the people of europe. in order to maintain the diversity of european culture, it is essential to make these works available across borders. at present only on their respective national territories are eu member states able to digitise works where the rightholder cannot be identified. in future, new legislation will make it possible to have europe-wide online access to such orphan works. the european commission’s proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain permitted uses of orphan works provides a basis governing books, newspapers, journals, films, musical works, tv productions, etc., which are in fact covered by copyright but for which the rightholder cannot be identified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislation, which will allow so-called ‘orphan works’ to be accessed in the public domain if the copyright holder cannot be traced. at present, institutions such as museums, libraries and public broadcasters risk being sued for misuse of content if they make use of orphan works, and therefore many remain unused. i welcome this new resolution, under which orphan works will be digitised and made public following a ‘diligent search’ for the copyright holder. in the event of the copyright holder being traced, the author will be compensated appropriately and the risks of prosecution for misuse of content will be minimised. this new ruling is a positive step forward in terms of making europe’s rich cultural heritage available to a wider public.
in writing. − presented after the unprecedented floods that devastated a vast portion of pakistan’s territory, the commission’s proposal seeks to extend autonomous trade preferences to this country concerning 75 product lines of interest to pakistan (mostly textile and clothing) in the form of exemption from custom duties, with the exception of one product (ethanol) for which a tariff-rate quota would apply. the proposed measures should be welcomed as a perfect example of the synergies that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has made possible. while the eu and its member states have already provided pakistan with humanitarian aid, the extension of trade preferences to this country is part of a larger package of measures that would address the medium and long-term economic consequences of the catastrophic floods. ensuring pakistan’s recovery and future sustainable development is extremely important, not only for its citizens but also for the security and the stability of the region. a stable and prosperous pakistan that does not drift away into extremism or fundamentalism is obviously in the eu’s interest.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which reiterates parliament’s condemnation in the strongest possible terms of the ever-increasing use of indiscriminate violence by president assad’s regime against the syrian civilian population, in particular the targeted killing of children and women and mass executions in villages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria. i fully support assistance to alleviate the plight of syrians who have taken refuge in neighbouring countries. as a member of the foreign affairs committee, and with a particular interest in turkey, i have been paying close attention to the impact on the region as a whole and the challenge not only turkey but jordan and lebanon face in supporting those that flee the crisis. the unfortunate reality is that the international community is at a deadlock, the annan plan has not worked and the syrian opposition is divided. it is vital that we do all that we can to identify and support those in the syrian opposition with a genuinely democratic perspective and with political goals that might help bring peace to a troubled region.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution in which parliament expresses its deep disappointment with the verdict and the disproportionate sentence issued by the khamovnichesky district court in russia in the case of nadezhda tolokonnikova, maria alyokhina and ekaterina samutsevitch, members of the punk band ‘pussy riot’.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which notes that the european council and the council are finally reaching the same conclusions as parliament as regards the need for a more integrated supervision system, and are now calling for the establishment of a banking union through the setting-up of single supervisory mechanism in conjunction with deposit guarantee schemes and a resolution scheme.
in writing. − this parliament resolution sets out the key concerns identified by meps that need to be addressed, with good quality, accountable supervision rules for eu banking the main priorities. i support this resolution, which welcomes the acceptance by eu countries that it is necessary to have an integrated bank supervision system. i back the suggestion for a system to be devised to look at addressing the possible effects on non-eurozone member states that could stem from the creation of a eurozone banking union.
author. − mr president, it is almost two decades now since the end of apartheid and the first democratic elections in south africa, and that country has made great strides. as africa’s largest economy, it has benefited from the huge rise in demand for commodities and minerals, particularly gold. it has also exercised an important leadership role in african politics, although sadly not in respect of its neighbour, zimbabwe. however, the recent massacre of miners by south african police reflects the country’s inherent instability. the police force is sadly bereft of adequate training, equipment and non-lethal crowd control methods such as water cannon. there should be a full investigation now, with no impunity for the perpetrators. i extend, on behalf of my group, the ecr, sympathy to the relatives of those who died and also to those survivors and witnesses who were scandalously later charged with murder. thankfully the government has now backed down on this. but julius malema, the former youth leader of the anc, is exploiting this terrible tragedy to whip up anti-government sentiment with his incendiary and violent rhetoric. he is a great threat to the fledgling democracy of south africa and, therefore, the stability of the entire region.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i wish to associate myself with the comments by mr tannock, who i believe has got this absolutely right with regard to the complexity of the situation. i condemn without hesitation and unequivocally the unwarranted killing of the 34 miners. it is a complex situation. before the killings took place there were murders and attacks on police and security staff and other mine workers and therefore we must be careful before jumping to conclusions. i believe president zuma and his government have acted accordingly and have got it right. we must await the outcome of the judicial inquiry but, more importantly, we must remove the root causes of this tragedy and the unrest. they are socio-economic causes and they must be dealt with. we must also, as mr tannock rightly said, contribute in conjunction with our south african partners to improving policing capacity. as to the reason that i have not co-signed the motion – and i did negotiate this – it is because i objected to the word ‘massacre’ in the title. i think it jumps to conclusions; i think it jumps to a conclusion on what the judicial inquiry is undertaking and it is an emotive and subjective view.
author. − mr president, burma has surprised the world in the past two years, moving dramatically away from military-governed authoritarianism and towards greater openness and democracy. however, this commendable development should not distract us from the plight of the rohingya muslim minority. rohingyas have lived in burma for centuries, yet they suffer from institutionalised discrimination and have had terrible violence directed at them in recent years. they are amongst the poorest and most marginalised of the country’s 48 million people. indeed many rohingyas have escaped burma or tried to flee. there are some 300 000 rohingya refugees living in neighbouring bangladesh, which is a very poor country and ill-equipped to handle this influx and provide even the most basic assistance, but they do their very best. the border is an open one with no formal crossings in the jungle areas. i commend the efforts of the burmese government on behalf of my group, the ecr, to try to end the violence directed against rohingyas, but it is time now for the authorities in rangoon to move from words to action. in the long term, this means building an inclusive society based on dialogue and genuine democracy, the rule of law and equal rights for all burmese people. this is not the first time in this parliament that we have debated the fate of the rohingya people in burma, but i sincerely hope it will be the last.
author. − mr president, there are still significant long-term challenges in burma despite the fact that 2011 saw some unexpected and positive political developments. but it is too soon to relax, especially regarding rohingya muslims and the rakhine buddhists. the president of burma should not be cherry-picking with respect to human rights. in europe twenty years ago we saw the terrible nightmare of ethnic cleansing in the former yugoslavia. the fact that burma is 5000 miles away in asia is not an excuse to ignore what amounts to ethnic cleansing in western burma today. support for justice for the rohingya, who are mostly muslim, would send a strong message to the islamic world that the eu is fair and even-handed in its dealings. a proposal to reinstate trade preferences for burma will come to the parliament soon. i hope we will use the opportunity to emphasise that all the people of burma are entitled to full human rights regardless of ethnicity and religion.
mr president, clearly the events of the past months have been shocking, and the extent of violence suffered by the rohingya muslim community in burma/myanmar has repulsed people into reaction. but there has been a complete lack of reaction from one quarter. it has absolutely amazed me that the very person in whom we have vested so much trust to uphold our values, aung san suu kyi, to the extent that we have put pictures of her in our parliamentary building in brussels, remains completely silent. aung san suu kyi, these are your people. they have been displaced, they have been killed, they have been raped, they have been tortured – and from you we have nothing but silence. we call for an immediate end to that violence. we call for immediate access to humanitarian assistance, rehabilitation, the return of those people to their homes and the immediate restitution of their property. the authorities need to know that they have to protect the rohingya people. president thein sein has to receive that message clearly. he has to grant them nationality and uphold their human rights.
author. − mr president, the ecr group regards the granting of a pardon by president aliyev, and the hero’s welcome given to ramil safarov immediately after his return home to azerbaijan, as deplorable. this is contrary to the reported diplomatic understanding by hungary, where he lived because he was convicted and serving a life sentence in prison for carrying out the brutal murder of an armenian citizen. it is also against the spirit of the european convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, which is supposed to mean that returned prisoners serve out their sentences in their home country in order to be closer to their families and in their home culture and language. although what was done was strictly speaking legally permitted within the laws of azerbaijan, politically it sends all the wrong signals to armenia by escalating tensions in an already fraught situation. azerbaijan is a member of the council of europe and participates in euronest, the eu eastern partnership and various other bodies, like the osce, which all purport to uphold democratic values and human rights. clearly this case is illustrative of the increasingly bellicose attitude taken by baku over the nagorno-karabakh territorial dispute. renewed efforts must now be made by the european union, through the minsk group, to try to resolve this frozen conflict and establish a long and lasting peace between armenia and azerbaijan and allow the whole of the south caucasus to develop and prosper.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will of course concentrate on the budget of the other sections, including parliament’s own budget. regarding the latter, it is always difficult to set your own budget, and this year it is even more difficult, as we face tough economic and financial times. therefore, the european parliament took very seriously the commissioner’s letter earlier this year when he suggested to all the institutions that they limit the increase for 2013 to 1.9 %. since the start of this year, the aim of this parliament has been to keep our increase below 1.9%, including the extra costs incurred because of croatia. we started with a figure of 2.4 % earlier this year, but straightaway we started to look for savings. we agreed to freeze all members’ allowances – the daily and office allowances – and we agreed to cut our travel budget once again. we also set up a working group between the committee on budgets and the bureau to look at further savings. this working group, i am glad to say, has been able to identify more savings. we have been able to find a 5 % cut in the travel budget. we have decided to save eur 5.3 million from the budget line for the house of european history, and we have found other ways of finding eur 3.1 million to fund the expansion of wifi within the european parliament buildings themselves. i am pleased to say that, at a recent conciliation meeting between the bureau and the committee on budgets, we agreed a 1.9 % increase for parliament’s budget – including the extra cost of croatia – but also including the 1.7 % proposed salary increases. so when colleagues do the mathematics and look at the actual increase proposed for parliament’s budget next year, they will see it is well below 1 % – indeed i believe what we are proposing is nearer 0.6 %. at this stage i want to thank the members of the budget committee and the bureau for their cooperation, but also all my shadows for their cooperation. we have worked extremely hard to get an increase at this level. i think that shows in the fact that there are no budget line amendments to be voted on tomorrow and that we are able, i believe, to stick to the agreement we reached with the bureau some time ago. therefore, this parliament is able to say that we have set in place a responsible budget for 2013 and that we will continue to look for further savings. as rapporteur, i have also been encouraging other institutions to set a responsible budget. i believe it was a mistake by the council some time ago to propose a blanket freeze for all the budgets of all the institutions. all the institutions are different, with different needs and different pressures, and therefore we should be looking at their budgets individually. certainly that is what i have done as rapporteur – i have sat down with each institution to look at their budgets in great detail. i am therefore proposing that we partially reinstate the budget of most of the other institutions to around the 1.9 % figure i mentioned earlier. however, there are a few institutions which are likely to come in a little higher than that because of their own special circumstances. i believe the ombudsman, the court of justice and the european external action service also have special circumstances and may warrant an increase of slightly above the 1.9 % figure. i hope that tomorrow, my colleagues will accept these proposals for parliament’s budget and also for the budget of all the other institutions. it has been a tough budget, but i do believe we have achieved our aim – a 1.9 % increase – while at the same time making savings but also protecting the effectiveness of this parliament and of individual members of this parliament.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, in the committee on economic affairs of this parliament, meps for once made some sensible comments. they looked at the savings that every single member state is having to make at local and national spending level and concluded that eu public spending must be subjected to the same discipline. the committee’s report says, and i quote, ‘parliament must provide the council with a clear budget that calls for a budgetary freeze, increasing spending where it matters and cutting it where it does not.’ sadly, the meps said one thing in the report and then did another. they identified areas to increase spending but in nearly every area where they could have supported a cut they voted against it. i and my british conservative colleagues will not be supporting parliament’s proposed budget.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i congratulate both our rapporteurs; there is a great deal in their reports which we can support, and i acknowledge that they have shown restraint in many of their proposals. in particular i want to mention derek vaughan with parliament’s budget. however, in one vital area we cannot agree: notably the overall size of the budget. this is a critical time for financing in all the member states’ national budgets, and in particular they have an urgent need to direct all possible resources to creating jobs and restoring growth within their economies. to that end there are two ways in which we in the european parliament can help. firstly, we can control the size of our budgetary demands. if we do that, we reduce the burden of cost on the member states. but secondly, we can set an example. of course we support jobs and growth, but i consider that much of the money which we need to do that could be found from savings elsewhere in the budget – indeed, it must be found from savings. i also acknowledge the problems with payments caused by the ‘reste à liquider’ issue, and i would recommend that in the long term this parliament, as a scrutinising body, needs to take steps to address this problem. however, for the 2013 budget, i urge this house to show more ambition. i urge it to support the council’s demand for restraint by freezing the size of the budget. by doing this, it could send a very clear message to the electorate.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, a 7 % increase for 2013 is outrageous. does anybody in this house seriously believe that we will help recovery by funding space projects? why is galileo still getting eur 160 million, almost three times more than last year? this is a badly-managed project producing technology that rivals already brought to the market years ago. why are projects like the earth monitoring programme and the space research programme getting over eur 300 million? i can assure you that none of these vanity projects will be putting food on the tables of europe’s growing number of increasingly angry poor people. then we have the famous supervisory bodies created a couple of years ago to avoid any more financial scandals. they have not done so. their reward is eur 20 million. would europe fall apart if all these projects were not funded, along with the eeas, worth eur 430 million? absolutely not. forget a rise, president; forget a freeze, mr cameron. what this ridiculous budget really needs is a cut of at least 10 %.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would also like to thank my colleagues for their contributions and the commission and the council for their positive comments. actually there were very few queries or questions on the other sections of the budget so i can perhaps be quite brief. i was pleased that one colleague recognised and accepted the need for the small increase in the ombudsman’s budget for 2013, due to accommodation and staffing pressures. another colleague mentioned the house of european history. people will be aware that many members of this house are quite sceptical about that particular project. i wanted to say that for next year we are proposing a eur 5.3 million cut in the budget line for that particular project. another colleague mentioned the issue of the single seat. again i would say that there will be a vote tomorrow, therefore colleagues will have the opportunity to express their views and opinions on the issue of the single seat. i also wanted to emphasise to colleagues that the joint working group i mentioned in my first contribution is still meeting. it is still looking at some of the issues raised by helga trüpel, on members’ travel for example. it is also looking at a comparative study of the administrative expenditure of this house and that of the us congress and member states’ parliaments. that work is ongoing, and we hope to have the final report on that at the end of the year. when we get that report, hopefully we can make some further recommendations in terms of savings for the european parliament. the aim of that particular joint working group and of me myself has always been one thing, and i will say it again for colleagues: to find efficiency savings – because it is possible to find these in this parliament – but also to protect the effectiveness of members and of this parliament. so, although i know many members think we should go further and find more savings, i also know that many members feel that we have already gone too far and made too many savings. hopefully, at the end of the day, we will reach a compromise which tomorrow will be acceptable to most members.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my thanks as well to the rapporteur, not least for trying to push through a wider vision of what the european year of citizens should be about, rather than just focusing on the rights to free movement. these rights do need to be better understood. we know that they are crucially important and that for many citizens they are seen as the key indicator of equality within an eu setting, along with coordination of social security rights – maybe this is why certain governments and parties feel that to help make the european union less acceptable they have to call those rights into question at the moment. as our rapporteur says, the eu needs to be able to answer the bigger questions about what role citizens are playing in decision-making in the european union. the current crisis certainly makes many feel that they are on the receiving end of decisions made elsewhere, and that decisions are being made to suit unaccountable markets rather than individuals and families living with the consequences. maybe one of the outcomes we should be looking at for this european year is to have a real citizens’ charter.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, well, here we are discussing the proposed european year of citizens, making 2013 the year the eu tries to sell its benefits to its citizens. i have always said that if there are such great benefits, they should be felt by the man in the street and not have to be read about or pushed down on them. that is the true test of them. it is described as a timely opportunity, given that it is one year before the european elections, and it has a budget request of eur 5 million. this european year is not for the citizens but is for the eu itself to promote the eu project. colleagues, we are in the midst of the most severe economic crisis in living memory. if this was truly to be a year for european citizens, we would do better to listen to them, cut red tape and barmy laws, create more jobs and growth and stop spending their money on pointless buildings, monuments and programmes and show some real solidarity with the people who are struggling and who we are supposed to represent. as a proud british citizen, i also find it impossible to support a report which seeks to place eu citizen status above my national citizenship. it is therefore easy for me to say that i will oppose this report.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we are here tonight to talk about european citizenship – but what is this european citizenship? i never wanted it, i never asked for it, i never voted for it, i never accepted it. i absolutely reject and repudiate your european citizenship. i was born a british citizen and a subject of the queen, and i intend to remain that way. this whole exercise is merely a propaganda project, spending the taxpayers’ money to try and convince the taxpayer – in a futile attempt – that he loves the european union. but with the eu teetering between failure and disaster, with the euro creating grinding deflation, poverty, hunger and unemployment across southern europe, the citizen does not love the european union. we in my country have had enough of it: we want out.
mr president, citizenship is quite different from nationality. whereas the latter is inherited and felt intuitively, the former, if not based on nationality, is a legal relationship which is artificial and contrived. european citizenship is artificial because it is not based on a european nationality. now, there is a european identity, but it is not based on common values; it is not a campaigning group. it is based on overlapping but not conterminous ancestries and, to varying degrees, engrained similarities of behaviour and ability. moreover, the european people share a common civilisation. however, europeans are not a demos and cannot be the foundation of a european democracy. european citizenship has been closely associated with freedom of movement of labour. however, movement of workers at the behest of capital is simply a sanitised version of human trafficking.
mr president, the report refers to the impressive rise of china, india and brazil. for ‘impressive’ i would substitute the word ‘threatening’ – threatening to the manufacturing sectors of europe and particularly to that in my own country, the united kingdom. the report expresses surprise that their growth has failed to reduce their poverty, but of course it is on their poverty and sometimes slave labour conditions that their growth has been based. the commission concedes that the emergent economies should be eliminated from development assistance, but only in the long term. in the meantime, they are destroying our manufacturing while we are relieving them of the burden of looking after their own poor. globalisation is applauded in the report on the doubtful ground that it reduces inequalities between countries, which is another way of saying that the emergent countries are becoming richer at the expense of some of our workers. however, inequalities within countries are becoming greater as workers in member states are thrown on the unemployment scrapheap.
mr president, i recently spent some time in cyprus, taking part in anti-occupation events against the illegal turkish occupation, which has now been going on for 38 years. turks hold 38 % of cypriot lands when cyprus is actually part of the european union. it was while i was in cyprus that i learned that the european union had won the nobel peace prize. that may be a joke, but not for the people of cyprus. part of that award was for dispute resolution, but what has the european union done to help the people of cyprus? there were 1 619 people missing after the turkish invasion. not enough work has been done. yet turkey is still a candidate country and does not even recognise the republic of cyprus, which is an eu member state. it does not even recognise the cyprus eu presidency. what is the european union doing about this? it is an absolute joke. i call for justice for internal refugees in cyprus and justice and human rights for the families of the missing people.
mr president, why are so many people in britain hostile to the european union? perhaps it is not surprising when you read in our newspapers ridiculous stories such as that the eu has banned the sale of homemade chutneys and jams in used jam jars. the deputy leader of the uk independence party, paul nuttall, who is a member of this house, calls it interfering nonsense by meddling bureaucrats from brussels. there is only one thing wrong with comments like that: they are completely untrue – the story is a fabrication. there was no truth in it, it is simply ukip cooking up lies again. you take a handful of distortion, add in some political bias, stir in doses of ukip’s vilification, sprinkle with gullible journalists who do not check their facts – and what do you get? a poisonous concoction, an ill-informed british public ever more distrustful of europe after being deceived by those who hate europe, a united kingdom betrayed by those who lay pretence to patriotism but in practice leave our country weak and with diminished influence.
rapporteur. − mr president, there can be no doubt that 2012 is the pivotal year for the implementation of the single european sky project. following the publication of the ‘time to deliver’ report by the european commission, i set out to address many of the points raised in my own-initiative report, which was overwhelmingly supported by my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism in july. the implementation of the single european sky has suffered from many past constraints and there are clearly still many challenges which lie ahead. european air traffic continues to increase, which is good news for growth, but there remain serious capacity issues in most member states. there must be greater urgency in order to avoid possible safety and operational risks resulting from ever-greater traffic flows and outdated technologies. the benefits of full and timely implementation of the single european sky are clear and cannot be ignored. a study by the sesar joint undertaking has shown that it will create more than 300 000 jobs, save in the region of 50 million tonnes of co2 and ultimately make air traffic more efficient, reducing the cost to the consumer and competing more effectively with our global competitors in order to maintain our market share. this is just good business. it is clear for these reasons alone that making european air space as efficient as possible is important for job creation, the environment and – at a time when many european countries are verging on or are in recession – economic benefits. these positive effects will be seen across all the member states and will extend to the entire supply chain, including manufacturers, airlines and smes, and into sectors such as tourism. i am confident that the jobs created through this project will be both highly skilled and highly paid. sesar technologies would allow air traffic controllers to become a more mobile workforce in a modernised, automated industry and be able to sell their talents widely, contributing to a more flowing, robust and innovative sector – in short, a sector fit for the 21st century. one of the key challenges is the defragmentation of european air space. the move to create functional air space blocks is painfully slow and, quite frankly, unacceptable. a strong message needs to be sent to the member states. they are the same member states that signed up to this project more than ten years ago, when we first dealt with this legislation and, in addition, countries that have joined the eu in the last few years. we in europe are world leaders in developing technology, and we need to make sure that it is our companies which benefit. it is vitally important that we cooperate closely with neighbouring countries and the military to ensure that the systems we develop are interoperable worldwide. the financial investment in r&d for the single european sky has been substantial, and it is now time to put in place the measures necessary to reap the benefits of that investment. i would like to conclude by saying that i am sick and tired of listening to problems – meaning that we cannot do something – when in fact we are prepared to find the solutions. we are also competing with emerging markets in asia, south america and the middle east. either we rise to that challenge or we will suffer the consequences. member states need to stop procrastinating and get on with it. the commission has the support of this parliament to enforce sanctions on member states who do not comply. i should like to send a strong message to commissioner kallas, who is not here tonight, that he has my full support and that we wish him to go full throttle.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, so here it is. governments across the eu are having to tighten their belts and reduce their debt and reduce their deficit, but the solution here seems to be to increase the debt and spend even more taxpayers’ money to increase that debt; to continue with wasteful subsidies rather than focusing on the better use of existing resources. at the committee on international trade we asked for a better use of existing resources to help smes in the eu to access markets overseas, in order to facilitate trade. we also asked for help for entrepreneurs in developing countries to meet eu standards so that they can access our markets, create growth back in their own countries and reduce their reliance on aid. overall, i think we should remember that spending is only one very small part of the picture. how do we return to growth? let us ask the question: how many large eu companies which compete at the top level globally have been established in the last 20 years? where are the googles and the facebooks of europe? we should focus on completing the single market, promote entrepreneurs and make way for growth and prosperity.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − mr president, i speak this morning on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism and, on your advice, i will focus on two crucial issues. firstly, the need to stimulate growth and jobs is the cornerstone of the eu’s recovery plan and its 2020 vision, and transport and the provision of much needed infrastructure can be crucial in delivering jobs and growth as part of those plans. secondly, we welcome the commission’s proposal on the connecting europe facility as providing an effective tool in delivering cross-border transport infrastructure that is both sustainable and achievable. every transport minister i meet wants help from the eu to build up a european added-value transport infrastructure from within their member states, but clearly there is often a breakdown of communication between the transport ministers and the finance ministers. in conclusion i reiterate that the commission’s proposal is warmly welcomed by the committee on transport and tourism.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i congratulate both our rapporteurs and i would say that there is a great deal within their reports which we can support. however, there are three points which i want to make: firstly on the question of the size of the budget. it is important that we reflect the difficult times being experienced by the member state governments, and for that reason we are calling for a freeze at 1 % gni. secondly, on the issue of own resources: we remain open to suggestions, but we are not persuaded by the case either for a financial transaction tax or for value added tax. thirdly, on the question of the rebate, can i remind this house that this is simply a matter of mathematics and not one of sentiment, emotion or politics. finally, i recognise the efforts which are being made towards resolving the crisis in the european economy. however, with resources strictly limited, is it not time that we revaluated our spending priorities for the european union budget? it is clear that we are going to have to take tough choices in the future, and i want to stress to this house that those choices must be based on the target of achieving true, european added value.
madam president, my uk liberal democrat colleagues and i support a great deal of what is in the resolution here today. we support a move to own resources allowing europe to raise more of its own funding while reducing member states’ gni contributions. we support a more flexible budget allowing parliament to switch spending in-year and, most importantly, allowing end-year under-spends to be rolled over into the next financial year instead of being handed back to member states. we also support spending on growth and jobs and the objectives of the 2020 strategy. we also want to see a genuine mid-term review of the mff budget in 2017 so that the ceilings can be looked at again if and when – as we all hope – growth has returned and austerity is on the retreat. where we cannot agree is on the size of the budget. in my own member state, welfare benefits are being cut, health and education spending is frozen and wages are frozen or declining. it is therefore impossible to justify any significant increase in the eu budget. that is why i want to see a budget that better reflects the tough times that all national governments are facing at this time. however, we can only accept a smaller budget provided we get greater flexibility so that we can deliver on our key priorities.
madam president, this house is stretching the meaning of the word ‘investment’ beyond elasticity. can any mep claim that the many billion euros of taxpayers’ money spent on the lisbon agenda have delivered any return? let us look at the evidence. in 2007, eu unemployment was 7.3 %; today it stands at 10.5 %. in spain, one of the biggest recipients of cohesion funding over recent years, the jobless figure today sits at 25 %. gdp for the european union has been flat. we should also not forget that the court of auditors has not given eu spending an overall clean bill of health for over a decade. the mff has been built around a legacy of failed projects, and the 2014-2020 mff simply seeks to top up those failed projects. employment comes from new industry and new industry requires capital, flexibility and less red tape – none of which the european union helps with. the mff needs a haircut and not a financial transaction tax to pay for more waste.
mr president, i am just wondering whether, in the interests of fairness, we will all be allowed to overrun by two minutes?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there were some good things to come out of last week’s council meeting. for instance, there was the support for the single market of 27 member states, developing more open trade, the cutting of some red tape and the withdrawal of some pending commission proposals. these were all good things. however, we need to see more action on all of those initiatives and my group will certainly support mr barroso in taking these initiatives forward. however, when it comes to the main topic of debate – yet again the euro crisis – we can see that the summit manifestly failed to deliver. both mr van rompuy and mr barroso spoke in this chamber after the previous summit in june. they spoke about balancing solidarity with responsibility and described the results back then as ‘significant’. they said that these took europe a few more steps down the road to recovery. well, of course, over the summer it became clear that some key member states had had second thoughts about what they agreed then, and the few small steps forward were overwhelmed by some pretty giant leaps backwards. the only significance of that summit, with hindsight, was that it represented yet another missed opportunity. the window created by the actions of the ecb to enable political leaders to get ahead of the curve in reassuring the markets was lost then, and it is lost now. no amount of fudging over the timetable for the supervisory mechanisms or the carefully chosen words about mutual support can cover up for the fact that this summit simply backtracked on what had been agreed. i have a lot of sympathy for both mediterranean europe and northern europe, but we cannot go on with this stalemate, with one side unwilling to hand over budgetary sovereignty and the other side unwilling to hand over its chequebook and its cash. it seems to me that, as mr verhofstadt observed, we now have no chance of making any headway towards a solution to the crisis before the elections in germany. the problem that we face is quite simply one of leadership. to take a topical example that has been mentioned in this debate, when the eu was awarded this famous nobel prize, the bickering began immediately about who was going to collect the prize, who was going to make the speech and who was going to talk at the dinner. i started thinking about all of those political leaders and organisations who actually really deserved to collect that prize for delivering peace in europe, for holding firm during the cold war and for challenging the might of the soviet union. i thought about the contributions of general de gaulle, president reagan, prime ministers kohl and thatcher, nato, and pope jean paul ii. no doubt everyone in this chamber has some figure that they want to put forward as contributing to that list. it seems to me that they had one thing in common – they had political courage, the courage to stand firm, to take political risks and to make sacrifices for what they believed in. what a sad contrast to the modern day europe of today, where difficult decisions are delayed, timetables slip, and political realities are ignored. it was sobering to note that that nobel prize was awarded to the eu, not because we are dealing effectively with the current crisis, but because we are failing to do so. it is not a message of congratulations to europe’s leaders, it is an act of charity. the prize has not been given to the eu because it is strong and doing well. it has been given now because the eu is weak and doing badly. that was made clear in the citation itself – in the announcement – if you read it. so let us put aside the self-congratulations and let us forget the mutual backstabbing. let us get on instead with the difficult task of making the urgent decisions that are required to make the european economy competitive and to launch the project again.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president: mr van rompuy, when you first appeared here, in what proved to be a rather expensive speech i said you would be the quiet assassin of nation state democracy – and sure enough, in your dull and technocratic way, you have gone about your course. but i have to say you are even worse than i thought you were going to be. i thought it was just going to be a federal europe – a federal union – but actually it appears, with every statement you make, that what you now want is the total subjugation of states to completely undemocratic structures based in brussels. i misread the bailouts. i thought that when the bailouts happened and i could see the panic around this chamber, with people fearing economic meltdown... but you, of course, were calm through it all, because you saw the bailouts as your opportunity to take control. just think how ireland today has managed, and greece, for that matter. the sinister-sounding troika come in, 50 officials spend a few days in the country, investigate the situation and then tell puppet prime ministers what they may or may not do. i note great enthusiasm in this chamber for spain to have a bailout: lots of members here want spain to accept the bailout, so that they too are subjugated to this new order. indeed in italy, the appointee there, mr monti, is very keen for his own country to be bailed out because, to quote him, he fears that parliamentary democracy could bring down the european union. it is pretty clear that your next phase is for those that have not been bailed out and may not need to be bailed out. you now want them to sign budget guarantees and to have the power to strike down national budgets after they have been through parliaments. i have to say i feel that the eurozone is now in a very dark place economically, socially and politically, and i fear that the countries trapped inside it, in that prison, will be there for many years to come. so it is odd that, against this backdrop, the nobel peace prize has been awarded to the european union. it is true that germany has not invaded france since 1945, but i do not think there is any prospect of that happening – unless what you are all saying is that the germans are inherently bad people. no, the threat actually came from russia, and we should be thanking nato and millions of american soldiers who served on european soil to maintain peace. yet i do not hear a word of that, because we loathe america and everything that it stands for. no, this is now a divided, split europe, with neo-nazi politics on the rise and violent demonstrations in the streets. frankly, i think that the award of that nobel prize devalues that whole organisation. it is not all bad news, because in britain the opinion polls are clear that a clear, settled majority of brits now want to leave this union, leaving david cameron as piggy in the middle, trying to pretend to be a eurosceptic when he comes over here, going back home and claiming victories – but he is stuck. i predict one thing: big political change is coming in britain, because he is losing the support of millions of his own voters.
mr president, once again we have a summit that promises a solution but in the fullness of time delivers little but further eu integration. through the fault of unelected, incompetent eurocrats and blinded member state leaders, the financial crisis is being used as a tool for further eu integration. what a heavy price we are paying for the eurocrats’ fantasy of a united states of europe. have they learned nothing from their folly? president barroso and his apparatchiks care little for the ordinary person. this latest round has been done on the back of the greek collapse and the 43 % increase in the suicide rate there. my fear is for the uk which, despite being out of the eurozone, is seemingly unaffected. yet this deal fails to safeguard the city of london and its prosperity. david cameron has given the green light to banking union and got nothing in return. why? was this not the opportunity to renegotiate some of those powers back from the european union, as cameron endlessly promises? it shows his words to be empty and that once again we have a conservative party which talks tough on europe, with its sprinkling of judas goats. but cameron turns out to be nothing more than the german chancellor’s poodle. three out of four conservative voters want an ‘in or out’ referendum but are being deceived by their leadership, which continues to sleepwalk the uk into a federal europe. so i call on those conservative supporters to stand up to david cameron for the future of your party and for our country. send him a loud message: we demand a referendum.
mr president, how many really understand the implications of the single supervisor? it looks to me like banking union ‘lite’ – getting the taste without the commitment. but, like monetary union, the ‘lite’ version will tie member states together with de facto mutualisation in the event of systemic failures. of course, we hope that stays theoretical, but citizens should know. meanwhile, to avoid mutualisation, the esm is out and recapitalising spain’s current bank debt is out. bond buying is linked to other conditionality. so what is the hurry? is it a question of pushing through a good news story before the citizens get to understand it or before parliament finds a better way, leaving the substance to never never? we are working to this mad timetable, but i see this as ‘legislate in haste and repent at leisure’ when a few months more could actually deliver the real deal. for all the gung-ho about banking union, i see no sign of it in crd iv, which is still an exemption fest. is it the intention for the ecb to stop all that? i think we should know and we should know up front. finally, on women in the ecb, we need more than talk that falls short of promises. that is no different from all the promises on gender equality that have so universally failed.
mr president, our citizens will welcome the emphasis of the council on economic growth and the recognition that growth depends on trade. however, much of that trade is internal. i wonder what mr van rompuy will do to persuade member states to lift the remaining barriers to trade in order to make the single market work as the council wishes. what will he do to encourage member states to open their markets in services in order to achieve the full potential of the single market? what will mr barroso do to withdraw some of the proposals he has talked of in order to reduce the regulatory burden? which proposals are we talking of? much trade is external, and we welcome the council’s conclusions on japan, canada and singapore. but do not forget india, and please do not overlook the usa. finally, citizens will welcome the commitment to the connecting europe facility. but if the council wills the ends, it must also will the means to pay for them.
mr president, it is very rare that i have anything positive to say about european commissioners, but today is different. over the weekend in the uk, on sky news, the commissioner for trade, karel de gucht, turned round and said that the uk can survive without europe. this is something that we have been saying for years. i would like to ask mr barroso, when he stands up, if he agrees with his commissioner.
mr president, in the united kingdom we are still getting to grips with the ruinous financial inheritance left to us by the last labour government. we have had to increase taxes and cut spending. i voted against the budget today because it proposes an increase in eu expenditure of 6.8%. for the eu to demand such a large increase, indeed any increase, is grossly insensitive. it is difficult to think of anything more likely to alienate voters in the uk and across the whole of the eu. why should europe be getting more money, when almost every other public service is getting less? why does the eu lecture greece to cut spending, tell ireland to raise taxes, force spain to accept a bail-out and then demand more money for itself? at a time of austerity it is the height of hypocrisy for the eu to ask for more. i fully support david cameron’s efforts to freeze eu expenditure. he is far more in touch with the citizens than the majority of members of this spendthrift parliament.
mr president, it is the duty of parliamentarians to represent the interests of their constituents. trust in the european union is at an all-time low. according to eurostat, fewer than one third of europeans have a positive image of the eu. in my country, the eu is seen as wasteful and out of touch. if we are to restore credibility we need to rein in excess spending. the commission’s inflation-busting 7 % increase in the budget is an insult to my constituents. while i would prefer to see a complete budget freeze, the council’s proposal of 3 % is more acceptable. so why has this house voted to restore the commission’s unrealistic demands? perhaps it is because the commission will go ahead and spend anyway. the commission recently demanded a 10 billion top-up to its 2012 budget and this is an affront and an outrage. we must send a strong message to the commission that it can no longer continue to squander its citizens’ taxes.
mr president, it is unacceptable that, at a time of unprecedented budgetary constraints across europe, the eu should be planning to increase its 2013 budget by 3 % – which is an inflation-beating figure – next year, with parliament proposing a staggering 6 % rise in payments. eu governments are being forced to keep an ever-closer eye on their national spending. the british government, for instance, is to cut spending by an estimated gbp 83 billion, with individual departments having to slash their budgets by an average of 19 % each. there is no good reason why the eu should be exempt from the cold realities of a global spending crisis. once again this organisation risks being viewed as out of touch by a european public subjected to painful austerity measures in their home countries and yet witnessing manifest profligacy in brussels on a daily basis. the eu is an expensive enterprise and demands a lot of money, but if it wishes to retain the confidence of eu citizens, it needs to tighten its belt like everybody else.
mr president, i do not think it is very acceptable for the european union to ask for a 7 % increase when my constituents in the south-east of england are having to tighten their belts and to live within their means. what prompted me to get up on my feet was the rather clever speech made by the president of the commission who appeared to blame the national governments and the national parliaments for the current mess that we are in and not the european union. what he forgot to mention is that when the eurozone was set up, it was the commission that was to monitor expenditure in the member states and the 3 % limit, the deficit limit, has been breached right throughout the european union and the commission did absolutely nothing about it. the 3 % and the 60 % ratios which were installed when the eurozone was created were ignored. that was the commission’s omission.
mr president, in that report i voted with my group, except for a few exceptions which related to international development, because i did not believe that we should – even though we are in difficulties – punish those who are in such dire straits that the quality and standard of living that we enjoy in europe is utterly luxurious compared to the way they live. therefore the poverty programmes and the other programmes which we would have essentially cut – particularly in asia – i voted differently from my group, because i believe that it is very important to be able to link our wellbeing to that of others in dire circumstances and in circumstances which are not as good as the ones that we find ourselves in.
mr president, earlier this month margaret thatcher celebrated her 87th birthday and i am sure this house would join me in sending its warmest congratulations. mrs thatcher fought hard to negotiate a rebate for the uk in 1984. when the iron lady secured a 66% rebate she said, ‘of course, one would like 100%, but one has to be a reasonable partner’. the uk continues to be a reasonable partner, but the proposals in this report to end the uk rebate are unacceptable. david cameron – like margaret thatcher – wants to outline the budget negotiations which are good for the uk and good for europe, which is why the british conservatives are calling for a freeze in eu spending. this is a reasonable approach. i do not see how the commission can continue to demand an increase in its own budget while imposing austerity measures on member states. as a former businesswoman i know that it is possible to make cuts to any budget. our citizens deserve these budget cuts and the commission must listen to their demands.
mr president, the medium-term financial framework will set the parameters for the next seven years of eu budgets and could not come at a more sensitive time. every single member state is making cuts in local and national spending and european public spending must be subject to the same discipline. we have limited money. every euro, every pound, every krone, even every zloty needs to get to the front line with a minimum of waste. in my own region, eu-funded projects often sound attractive for jobs and skills, infrastructure and research, but the red tape reality is that running those projects often has huge costs and wastes, and these schemes could be better funded through national programmes or local grants. i do not just want to tinker with eu funding, i want a fundamental review on how to reduce waste and excess, starting with getting rid of this chamber but moving on to look at our staffing costs and benefits, so that there is not one set of rules for eu institutions and another for those who work locally. then i want a root and branch review of every project so that the eu only funds projects where there is added value at international level in areas like our world-class science, where investment genuinely will boost growth and jobs.
mr president, first i would like to congratulate the republic of cyprus for handling the delicate multiannual financial framework negotiations so adeptly for the 2014-2020 period. this is the island state’s first experience of holding the eu’s rotating presidency-in-office. the cypriots, like the british people, recognise the importance of value for money for the european union, while emphasising the need for the eu to help create jobs and enable economic growth. nevertheless, the british prime minister david cameron has made it quite clear that at a time of austerity it is simply unacceptable to the british public to demand either an above-inflation increase or an end to the british rebate, particularly given the fact that the uk is the second largest net contributor. member states should be warned that he is prepared to exercise the uk veto if necessary and go over to an annual emergency funding on a frozen budgetary basis. there is plenty of budgetary fat to be cut, and shutting down the strasbourg parliament would be a great place to start. then we need to reform the cap and reduce structural funds, particularly the european social fund, so that only things like research and development – both medical and scientific – or major infrastructure projects are given emphasis. at the moment, however, the british public really thinks that the eu is spending far too much money and could do a lot less and do a lot better.
in writing. − it is only correct in the incidence of inappropriate or fraudulent behaviour by any elected or unelected representative of the eu that the matter be fully investigated and the identity of the accused disclosed for the purpose of transparency.
in writing. − i voted for this report as, based on its findings, i believe that there is no reason not to waive martin ehrenhauser’s immunity.
in writing. − i supported amendment 1263 on the house of european history because it reduces the budget of the european parliament by 5.3 million; even though i believe it does not go far enough, it is a reduction. ideally the vanity project should be wound up and the budget line removed. i voted for amendment 964 on iter because i am in favour of reducing the european union budget, and amendment 964 was to reduce payments by eur 490 million. however, i do not support the intent of the author of the amendment which was to eliminate nuclear power. i fully support nuclear power and, if the british people were not sending so much money to brussels more would be available for investment in the british nuclear industry. i supported amendment 754 because i oppose eu funds, which are really the taxes of british and european citizens, being used for aid to tobacco producers.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 351 restoring the commission’s draft budget for the european globalisation fund. at a time of economic recession it is vital that this fund is adequately financed.
in writing. − it is utterly abhorrent that the eu is seeking to increase its budget and reverse essential cuts when the eu authored programmes of austerity are inflicting pain in member states across the continent. it is the result of the eu created and perpetuated eurozone crisis that so many citizens of europe are currently jobless, without access to medical care or food and suffering as a result of a failing economy. to use the impecuniousness of certain sections of society as a just cause for reversing proposed cuts is absurd. it is essential that the eu scales back its operations rather than increase its scope of power and therefore has need to increase the amount of money it pools centrally which ultimately comes from the hard pressed taxpayer.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote. there are significant monies to be paid for commitments made over this financial period which are now being requested – and a number of them are late. as the eu cannot carry over monies unspent from previous years, we have been unable to build up any provision for these requests. however, member states have had those unspent monies returned to their national budgets, where they can carry forward unspent monies: they are now unwilling to restore that money to the eu budget in order to meet commitments made – ironically, largely to member states. i doubt if they will be willing to forgo those payments and will thus still expect payment. the monies owed are larger than the additional amount requested by commission and parliament. i was also angered during the vote by the hypocrisy of some members who, while arguing for a reduced budget, then voted for additional and continuing funding for the iter project which is, in my opinion, a waste of union resources. we also failed to have a qualified majority to end export and tobacco subsidies, when we could find money by ending such damaging projects.
in writing. − it is clear that there is still much uncertainty over the commission’s estimates on what it needs in 2013 to pay the bills from member states. the prudent approach at a time when there is huge pressure on public spending across europe and people are under serious financial strain is to aim for a budget freeze if possible. that is why today we oppose the parliament and commission’s position of a 6.8% increase in the 2013 budget. once all the bills from member states are presented for payment by next october, if there is a shortfall it can be addressed then through an amending budget. i welcome that parliament has agreed a real-term cut in its own budget, frozen mep allowances and cut mep travel allowances by 5%. i also welcome parliament’s vote calling for an end to the circus of travelling to strasbourg every month, with the largest majority ever. i hope that now the member states will look to a solution to put an end to the monthly trek, costing eur 180m per year and generating 19 000 tonnes of co2.
in writing. − in this resolution i voted in favour of parliament having the right to decide on its own seat and working places.
in writing. − i cannot accept a call to increase the financial provision to the eu over the next parliamentary term when europe is still going to be gripped by austerity and undergoing a programme of tentative regrowth after such deep fiscal cuts. the crisis in europe was caused and prolonged by the eu, which has used ongoing economic misery to push for a more integrated and centralised european union. this audacious attempt to seize more funding to support the ambitious extension of power towards a federal level is not only democratically vacuous but utterly incongruent with the needs of europe as a continent. the eu also seeks to undo rebates which at present are in place to stop member states such as the uk being used solely as a cash cow and provide protections for the citizens who would be disproportionately burdened with the financial costs of levelling out wealth across the union.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution, which calls for the end of the british rebate.
in writing. − let us be clear, labour’s meps believe that the eu budget can be part of the solution to the current economic and unemployment crisis in britain and the rest of the eu. we believe that a greater focus should be placed on bringing forward key infrastructure projects and making a commitment to invest in innovative sustainable technologies. this is why we voted to secure funding for projects in the uk and voted to protect eu spending in deprived areas. we also called for a single seat for the european parliament to end further wasteful expenditure. however, we must be realistic about the fact that we cannot increase spending in all areas. we must support targeted spending in areas, which must be offset by making savings in areas with less added value. at the same time labour meps could not vote for a report that called for an end to rebates but refused to make a deep rooted commitment to reform the cap.
in writing. − i am totally against the eu sneaking in a form of direct taxation via the backdoor. the eu must not have any form of revenue raising powers, however small a percentage they may be and even if they do not accrue directly in the eu budget but via national treasuries. creating a resource based upon vat is the first step towards establishing a stealth tax without a single citizen of europe bestowing revenue raising powers upon the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this draft regulation. the draft regulation for making the vat own resource available is necessary to define the method member states should use to calculate this new resource as well as the procedures for its transfer into the eu budget. the underlying principle of the commission’s proposal is that the new eu vat own resource is based on a share of the vat on supplies of goods and services, acquisitions and imports ‘subject to a standard rate of vat in every member state’. therefore, it is based on the actual harmonisation that already exists in those goods and services with a standard rate across the eu. in addition, the new system transfers the largest share of calculations currently done by member states to the commission.
in writing. − the eu has long demonstrated it is incapable of operating transparently and is riddled with fraud and misspending. billions are squandered, other projects represent a profligate waste of money, application of funding is often grossly mishandled while penalties under cross compliance either punish the innocent or fail to protect against corruption. there is little real effort towards transparency by the wasteful and undemocratic eurocrats in brussels. i therefore cannot extol this hollow attempt to sell eu representatives a notion of fairness and good governance.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this reports calls, in the field of cohesion policy, for the commission to come forward with a proposal to introduce innovative forms of funding, including increased use of eib loans, in order to maximise the leverage effect of union funds.
in writing. − i fully support this text, which has been revised following negotiations between the parliament and the council. this regulation looks at the financing rules for union funds and i believe that the focus on increased simplification and more transparency and accountability is vitally important. another important new development seen for the first time in the financial regulation is the inclusion of financial instruments. increasing the use and scope of financial instruments will provide further support to job creation and growth, which is hugely important during this economically difficult time.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, mr barroso spoke of publishing his blueprint on all the building blocks that we need for genuine economic and monetary union. i was not clear whether such building blocks would include a draft proposal for a redemption fund, and i would be very grateful for commissioner šefčovič to clarify this. it will be extremely problematic for parliament to agree on the ‘two-pack’ in the absence of progress on the redemption fund. secondly, following the unfortunate disappearance of former commissioner dalli, what is the fate of the tobacco products directive? this is an issue of great interest to parliament and mr šefčovič is in command of the portfolio of former commissioner dalli at present and might be able to tell us this. thirdly, it is of course splendid that we are having more plans for lawmaking in the single market area, but we have to appreciate that the present package of single market law is still far from complete. the services directive, which is a key element in this, is not properly in force yet in several member states. the patents directive is still out there craving for a solution and the alde group would wish to emphasise the importance of completing current programmes of implementing the law that we have worked on and ought to be in force before we can see our way clearly to the final sunny uplands of a single market that will appear to be more complete.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, as one of those who worked on the work programme and also as chairman of the committee on the internal market, i welcome the set of initiatives which have been put in front of us. there is nothing particularly unexpected in them, but i want to make a broader point, if i may, about presentation. may i say to mr šefčovič that this is not actually the commission’s work programme at all. this is a list of new initiatives. but, as a number of my colleagues have pointed out, the continuing work on projects started during 2012 – and even earlier – which have yet to be completed is as important as the new initiatives. also, a really important part of the commission’s work – and here i support what a number of colleagues have said already – is actually the implementation and enforcement of existing regulations and directives. for example, in the area with which i am most familiar, we will complete next year, i am sure, a major review of the public procurement directives. that will require an intensive transposition and training programme across member states to make it really effective. i would say to commissioner šefčovič, that in future his work programme has to be the whole work programme. we do not just want to see the new initiatives; we also want to see the progress which is going on in those areas, because that is a crucial part of your role in the commission. we want to see that programmed, we want to see what you are doing and we want to be engaged with that. my colleague, andrew duff, mentioned the services directive, which my committee has been working on extremely actively. this brings me to the second thing which is completely absent from the programme. here at the back we have a list of your ideas about the proposals which are simplifying regulation, but i want to remind you that in our resolution on the work programme – which you commented on – we specifically asked the commission to improve the quality of its legislative drafting and also to deal with the concerns we have about the qualitative impact assessment procedure and how well that is working. there is nothing about this in here at all. why not? we know that the secretary-general of the commission is working on a review of that, which is not mentioned in here either. so do better next time, please. send us a proper work programme: initiatives, continuity, quality, implementation. let us make this work properly, mr šefčovič; let us not have a partial programme, and please also stop dressing up these ideas with new little sub-initiatives. let us get down to the real meat of doing our job better together.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, there is much to think about in the commission’s work programme; but, as always, the devil is in the detail – and we need to hear much more detail, particularly with regard to the seven policy areas to which it refers. we look forward to making a constructive and positive input on the proposals, which have the potential to benefit the people of europe. taken as a whole, however, the work programme is, we believe, another missed opportunity. the commission needs to come up with a radically new approach. there is no mention at all of the tobacco directive, which is already long overdue. the work programme needs to put people’s needs before profits, and it needs to recognise that the austerity measures are particularly detrimental to women and children. child poverty has increased as a result of the austerity measures. i listened intently to what you had to say about growth and jobs. despite the upbeat rhetoric, measures to invest in jobs and growth are half-hearted and under-funded, and are rendered somewhat ineffective by the ideological attachment to the policies of austerity. already we have 25 million people unemployed across europe, and that number is growing. it is disappointing that the work programme does not address at all the failed policies of chasing after third world conditions in employment and public services. we will not get out of this crisis by lowering wages and destroying jobs and public services, cutting spending and pouring billions of pounds into the banks. following the september state of the union address by president barroso, i said that he needed to give his head a shake. i respectfully suggest, mr vice-president, that you need to do the same, and get a better understanding of the damage that has been caused to peoples’ lives by the severe austerity measures that are being run through the european parliament, the commission and the council.
madam president, the commission’s priorities are directed towards greater integration as an end in itself and not towards measures that will solve the real economic problems facing the populations of europe. the greatest of course is the recession, with its unemployment and under-employment, squeezed incomes and reduced benefits. indeed, the austerity programme is calculated to produce unemployment and not to combat it. one policy area mentioned is genuine economic and monetary union: the euro, with its common external value that is hideously overvalued for the countries of the south, and which is aggravating and perpetuating the recession for them. another commission priority is said to be to use eu resources to improve competitiveness. well, countries with overvalued currencies cannot compete even with other countries in their region. the eu’s embrace of globalism means that european manufacturers have to compete with emergent economies with pirated designs, workers on artificially depressed wages and slave-labour conditions.
blue-card question. – madam president, mr jadot very clearly pointed out the total inconsistency within this house. the left is opposed to certain human rights motions condemning china, and was very supportive of the third-generation agreement with pakistan, where there are clearly human rights abuses against christians, hindu minorities and women. but when it comes to israel-bashing they are the first to try and conflate two completely separate issues: the policies of the government of israel and an issue to do with trade and the quality and safety of pharmaceutical goods to be consumed by european union citizens. do they not agree that this is completely ridiculous, and are they aware that, as far as i know– and have had confirmed – there are no manufacturers of medicine in the occupied territories or the settlements? they come entirely from within israel itself. so there is no question as to provenance, even if that were relevant to this issue. can they not agree that there are no medicines coming out of the occupied territories? (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – mr murphy, would you agree that israel is a democracy with free and fair elections and people can throw their government out, whereas gaza is actually a dictatorship led by an eu-banned terrorist organisation called hamas, in which people are hanged from lamp posts? would you also agree that lifting the gaza blockade, no matter how desirable you might think that is, has got absolutely nothing to do with the issue before us today, which is about supplying cheap, safe and effective medicines to sick europeans?
madam president, it is deeply regrettable that the implementation of the protocol establishing the eu-israel agreement on conformity, assessment and acceptance of industrial products has been stalled in recent months through, quite frankly, the careless politicisation of the issue through members of this house. i, for one, am keen to stress the overwhelming potential of this agreement for eu citizens – i speak on behalf of many of my constituents in northern ireland who have been in contact with me on the matter. there has been much speculation as to the potential impact of the acaa on the human rights of palestinians living in the occupied territories. however, as indicated by the commissioner, this has been dealt with in the conditionalities in the association agreement between the eu and israel. focus must therefore turn to the rights of eu citizens to effective and reasonably priced health care. by allowing mutual recognition of goods certificates, the eu-israel acaa would erode several barriers to exporting pharmaceuticals from israel to the eu and vice versa, allowing advanced medical supplies to reach those who need them most, in a reduced timeframe. in the light of the global economic climate, eliminating the need for extensive product testing would also positively impact the operating costs of eu pharmaceutical manufacturers, leading to savings in national health care services, including the national health service in the united kingdom. as a result, the agreement represents an avenue through which i can remain true to two of my personal priorities as an elected representative for northern ireland – consolidating public health and safeguarding jobs – and for these very human reasons i am in support of it.
madam president, daniel caspary knows full well that he is not equating like with like. firstly, the palestinians are the occupied, not the occupiers. secondly, the agricultural upgrade was relatively minor compared to the millions, if not billions, that could eventually be available to israeli companies if we approve this so-called ‘technical upgrade’. it is not a ‘technical upgrade’. it will immediately benefit israeli pharmaceutical companies. it is also not something being done in the interest of the european union, mrs dodds, because there is no evidence that it would save the uk national health service a single penny. this is not the time, in my opinion, to be upgrading our relationship with israel. if we believe in policy cohesion, we have to have some interaction between our trade policy, our human rights policy and our foreign policy. mr murphy has rightly said that israel is engaged in the collective punishment of gaza, against all human rights norms, against all international norms. there is no question about it; even the israelis do not deny it. for the misdemeanours of a few, the whole of gaza is being punished. we also know, of course, that israel has continued to expand its settlements in the middle east. these settlements are illegal under international law and threaten to make a two-state solution impossible. the eu has repeatedly urged the israeli government to immediately end all settlement activities on the west bank, including in east jerusalem, in line with its obligations under the roadmap. these are not my words, but those of the high representative of the european union. so how can the high representative put out a press release like that, and the trade commissioner then come along and say we should approve the rewarding of israel for its policies? there is no cohesion there, there is no logic to such a position in the european union. let me make it clear, and other speakers have made it clear: this is not about being anti-israel. this is about being anti the current israeli government and anti the current israeli government’s policies. that is why initially i hoped to postpone a decision, so that if we do get a better israeli government, if we do get better israeli policies, we could pass this protocol and we could enhance our relationship with israel.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when a matter raises such deep sensitivities and poses serious challenges to the union's effectiveness, coherence and credibility as a global actor, it is not easy to take decisions calmly and to reach the desirable consensus, especially when it comes to the middle east, with a stalled peace process and on the eve of elections in israel. at this point i think that we in parliament must keep our heads and shoulders down and assume our responsibilities fully, ensuring that the european union negotiates and implements its agreements effectively, consistently and, of course, in compliance with the treaties, the case law of the european court of justice and international law. the protocol on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products which we are discussing today, in my view, raises legal, technical and institutional problems for the european union which should be sufficient to reach a consensus in this house. the legal service of the parliament has confirmed to us that if israel appoints an authority responsible for the application of this protocol, with competence throughout israel, the european union will not be able to recognise it and the protocol will not be able to apply, because we cannot ignore the fact that, according to israeli legislation, the territory of israel includes territories beyond the 1967 borders. for this reason, our group, the socialists and democrats, has been pushing for and supporting amendments calling for the council to make an interpretative declaration to avoid an implicit recognition of israeli sovereignty over these territories; what happens is that the council itself tells us that this interpretative declaration cannot have all the guarantees that this exclusion is clear. moreover, if this protocol were to be adopted under the present conditions, it could be amended and extended to include other industrial products without consulting parliament, and we would again be faced with a problem of international legality. i think that these two issues are the main reasons why we are in a situation where we have to ask for this protocol to be returned to the committee on international trade and, in the event that...
mr president, i would like to echo the call from the rapporteur and from other colleagues to refer this agreement back to committee for further debate. i have been contacted by many constituents from wales opposing this agreement, so it is a matter of grave concern that goes way beyond the walls of this chamber. i visited the west bank earlier this month with my european free alliance colleagues in this parliament. it was not my first visit, but it was no less shocking for that. we had many meetings and, whether we discussed education, freedom of movement, planning, prisoners, housing, land, water or transport – in fact whatever subject we discussed – we heard the same story of discrimination and ill-treatment of the palestinian people. what we heard too, and what we saw very clearly for ourselves, was that the situation is worsening all the time. we are not just talking about a technical agreement; we are talking about human rights, justice and international law, and we cannot put those issues aside when making this decision.
mr president, i believe the best speech this afternoon has been by mr kasoulides, who cited the barcelona process and neighbourhood policy. i fervently believe that the eu’s role in promoting trade as a basis of dialogue and prosperity and its role in keeping its partners to democratic and human rights standards are part of a package, not one set against the other. this is precisely the story of the eu itself, for which it received the nobel peace prize. we can press our partners close on trade and on human rights at the same time. i voted for the agreement on agricultural trade with palestine last year, despite some shocking reports – particularly on hamas abuses in gaza – most recently by human rights watch and the carnegie endowment, because i believe in strengthening eu trade and economic links with the whole region. i think this whole approach of critics, which sees trade relations with parties as a zero-sum game, is hopelessly unproductive. as my colleague, marietje schaake said, exactly how would rejection of this acaa agreement actually improve the situation of palestinians? this is not about patting israel on the back or rewarding it. it is not a political upgrade. it is part of the steady development of a neighbourhood policy of engagement. by the way, i think foreign minister lieberman’s rude rebuff to cathy ashton was stupid but is hardly the most important issue on the radar.
mr president, the acaa protocol is not about human rights, the occupied territories or israel’s approach to the middle east peace process. it is about trade and unblocking technical barriers which currently exist between producers and consumers: one of the fundamental objectives of the european union for the record, and for those who have raised the issue repeatedly, i have received repeated assurances that there are no pharmaceutical products being manufactured in the settlements. supporting acaa does not endorse the expansion of settlements or indeed any other israeli policy, neither does it increase goods with a provenance from the occupied territories. it does, however, enable israel, which has a highly sophisticated regulatory authority, to certify medical products, a task for which it is more than equipped, to the benefit of all of europe’s citizens. people here, who have sought to block it, are cutting off their nose to spite their face. israel is a global leader in producing cheap and safe, effective generic medicines. those opposed to acaa are more interested in bashing israel than in promoting the welfare of europe’s sick.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this matter of dual use items keeps on coming up. its significance is that, in order to export anything on the dual use list, we in the uk need to get permission from the european commission first. the eu justifies this by asserting that the dual use list prevents weapons falling into the hands of dictators. given that eu companies sold colonel gaddafi the incredible sum of 300 million euros’ worth of arms in just five years, that assertion comes across as being on one level invalid and on another level hypocritical. to be clear: the purpose of this proposal is to give yet more power to the commission to designate what items should go on the dual use list. the uk is a global trading nation, and we as a nation [i thought it was a minute and half] find it wholly unacceptable that unelected bureaucrats should have the right to regulate britain’s exporters and even veto hard-won export orders.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to give an explanation of my vote against the discharge for the european food safety authority. i would like to make it clear that my views on the european food safety authority are not reflected in this vote against, in the sense that i find it impossible to vote for discharge on any of the environment committee-related agencies due to the fact that the court of auditors are unable to sign off on their accounts for any of these environment-related agencies and therefore i would by default be approving the procedure, which i do not wish to do. but i would like to state on record that the work of the european food and safety authority that i have been involved with has been in every case exemplary.
madam president, food safety is one of the most serious responsibilities an executive body can dispense to its citizens. although, in line with my group, i express deep reservations about granting a discharge in the absence of firm assurances from the court of auditors, the european food safety agency is an eu body which i personally wholeheartedly endorse in principle. food is, by its very nature, transnational, travelling from the field, the ocean or an abattoir to the processing plant and eventually to our dinner plates. it does not respect national boundaries. when something goes horribly wrong, such as the outbreak of an infectious disease or poisoning or contamination of our foodstuffs, we need a well-run supranational organisation to identify the problem and enact the necessary measures to alert our national authorities and thus protect our consumers everywhere throughout the european union.
madam president, the european medicines agency is a prime example of a successful devolved eu body which can bring tangible benefits to european citizens and consumers. based in my own constituency of london, the ema replaces the previous complex, bureaucratic requirements for british pharmaceutical companies to apply individually in 26 other countries in order to license their medicinal products. instead, we have developed a one-stop shop for assessing the safety and granting product licences for innovative medicines, thus saving considerable time and money and benefiting both patients and the pharmaceutical industry, which is a major export earner for the united kingdom. nevertheless the ecr, my group, maintains serious concerns about some of the contractual arrangements and the transparency of this agency, which of course merit further scrutiny by the court of auditors.
madam president, since 1983, the european years have covered everything from music to cancer. the 30th year will be the european year of citizenship and, clearly, we are running out of ideas. we have already had a european year of citizens through education and a european year of workers’ mobility. we simply do not need another european year to inform people of their rights as eu citizens because, not only is the eu running out of ideas, but it is also running out of money. the commission’s proposed budget for the year was eur 1 million but, in its wisdom, parliament has called for a five times increase in this budget. this morning i and my group called on the eu to make meaningful cuts to the budget to reflect the austerity measures governments have faced across the continent. putting an end to the european years would be a good start.
madam president, i have to say that i can scarcely believe these proposals. i feel that they are utter nonsense and it should worry democrats that two-thirds of meps supported this motion. i did not. how can we throw money away on such nonsense when the peoples of europe are hurting? as they are in greece, in spain, in portugal, in france and in my own country. the eu is clearly hopelessly out of touch with the people it purports to represent. at a time when angela merkel today is threatening to veto the entire budget summit if david cameron vetoes anything but a freeze, this is crazy. david cameron is trying to do the right thing. are the peoples of europe, in between paying higher taxes, in between job cuts and riots, turning to one another to say that what we really need is a year of european citizenship? no, absolutely not. nor am i a citizen of the eu, but a loyal subject of the queen. the idea is flawed, insulting and an utter waste of money.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank ms ojuland as well for this initiative which – if the council does adopt the recommendations of parliament – would be the first example of its kind, whereby targeted sanctions of this kind are used as a way of preventing impunity in a strategic partner, in this case russia. russia, we have to remember, is supposed to be a member of the council of europe and of the osce. it is supposed to have a constitution which demands that the rule of law be upheld, yet we have the terrible case of this man, who died in terrible pain, which was covered up as a result of high-level criminal corruption. we do not welcome on our territories criminally-acquired funds. stopping these people travelling to the european union is, i think, a way of exerting leverage over russia and pointing out the terrible injustices that prevail in that country, the lack of democracy and the deterioration in the standard of human rights. this proposal is not unique to this parliament. other jurisdictions and other parliaments, such as the us congress and the british house of commons, have done very similar things. if it is successful i think it will actually send very strong signals to other countries where we can use similar targeted sanctions to put pressure on them to observe the rule of law.
madam president, i welcome this own-initiative report on the ‘single european sky’; it gives a strong signal from the parliament to the member states and the commission. the fragmentation of european air space is estimated to cost eur 4 billion per year; it is costing jobs and is unnecessarily increasing our co2 emissions. we need a more efficient european air space to relieve congestion around airports and also to meet our environmental challenges. this is a project where, i am quite proud to say, the united kingdom is not lagging behind, but all member states must do their part of the job. a sustainable future for aviation in europe means that we have to make the right efforts now for our economy, for our environment, to tackle our capacity constraints, to keep our position as a hub in the world but also to remain an environmental world leader. the single sky is one of the alternatives to building new capacity, as are the development of multi-modality and an increased use of regional airports. it is the member states that now have to deliver on this. we are doing our bit.
madam president, i certainly welcome this own-initiative report, which points out in particular the need for more information to passengers and the need for more price transparency – which other members have mentioned – better protection of passengers in the case of airline bankruptcy and more accessibility and assistance to persons with reduced mobility. i made quite a few amendments myself to this report, particularly on issues such as through ticketing. i believe in addition that we also need clear information to be given to passengers on other issues such as the liability of carriers in the event of damaged or lost baggage, differential baggage allowances, compensation for delays and, particularly, adequate rerouting in the case of travel disruption and missed connections, which should include intermodal rerouting. i am also very keen in fact on the idea of a european multimodal travel planner which would give customers and travellers door-to-door information, including the cost and duration of multimodal journeys, including the air journey. that is something we should pursue.
madam president, i have previously called on this house to make a bonfire of eu quangos. eu agencies are inefficient, unnecessary and unaccountable. i hope that the scandals of the european environment, medicine and food safety agencies will make members think twice about what these quangos do. the european environment agency’s relationship with an ngo, which it sent on trips to the caribbean and the mediterranean, are totally unacceptable. the agency’s lack of regard for public procurement procedures is also offensive, especially as so many public bodies in my london constituency are struggling to abide by complicated eu public procurement rules. finally, we get to the area where i feel all eu bodies are wasting money: information and communication. the agency’s ‘living façade’ was a eur 300 000 over-indulgence. i congratulate the rapporteur on recommending a vote against granting discharge.
madam president, why is it that a trade agreement that will facilitate the import of high-quality and affordable medicines into europe is such a political hot potato? because the trade agreement is with israel. to provide european patients with life-saving drugs at lower prices has taken over two years of negotiations, even though this is an already established joint commitment with israel. we need to use more generic drugs to lower our healthcare bills. israel, despite its small size, is at the forefront of major medical innovations. by using israel’s generic drugs, the cost to healthcare systems for blood pressure medication, for example, could be reduced by 92%. i voted for this report because i believe in free trade. members of the european parliament should be supporting free trade, especially in an industry which is vital to the recovery of the eu.
madam president, this is a very important report, but i regret to say that i abstained in the final vote on it, for two very good reasons. the first is that 72% of the world’s poor live in the middle-income countries and the commission is proposing to reduce, and then eliminate altogether, the support that we give to middle-income countries for poverty alleviation. if we do that, our entire poverty elimination programme is just going to be a farce, and will be of no use to the european union at all. secondly, we sadly endorsed in the report the financial transaction tax. i think this is a hugely damaging move. it will drive people in the financial services sector away from europe – particularly from the great city of london, where financial services are the prime revenue earner – to other places, like dubai, hong kong and new york, where there is no financial transaction tax. should a tax like this be introduced, it should be global. there is no effort at all to introduce it at a global level, so i think it is a very bad move.
madam president, small- and medium-sized businesses are the backbone of our economies and drivers of growth, and much of this report is helpful. however, when it comes down to comments on regulation, the report is simply too vague. to help these businesses we need to do less, not more. tiny businesses, micro-entities, should be exempt from vast swathes of european legislation, a policy that is now supported by the european commission, but this parliament’s report sets hurdles for tiny companies to go through before they can get that exemption. it is the wrong way round. we should have to prove to those companies why they need to be included in regulation and not leave it up to them to prove to us why they can be exempted. the commission and national parliaments need to be better at assessing the impacts of legislation. if parliament really wants to prove its commitment to helping companies then we must consider the impacts of our own amendments before we pass them.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report, along with my alde colleagues, largely because it highlights the crucial role which smes play in our economy and their vital role in helping europe out of the economic crisis. i am pleased that we recognise that a third of red tape and bureaucracy for smes derives from poor implementation by national governments. member state governments really have to get a grip here and make sure they do everything within their power to make life simple and straightforward for hard-working entrepreneurs who employ the vast majority of the workforce and generate the vast majority of gdp. legislation coming from brussels and strasbourg also has an effect, and we need to be more sensitive to business realities. it needs to complement existing best practice. it needs to safeguard workers, consumers and employers, while also being smarter, more streamlined and less onerous. finally, the problem of access to finance cannot be underestimated. banks are still failing to lend to the people and businesses that they ought to lend to, having spent years lending to people they ought not to have lent to. smes are finding innovative ways of sorting finance, but the banks and governments need to do more to support businesses that are viable. this is vital to ensure not only their short-term survival but also their long-term growth and ability to create new jobs.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the aim of draft amending budget no 4/2012 to the general budget 2011 is threefold, namely the creation of four budget lines in order to reallocate financial appropriations from up to 10 % of the european regional development fund (erdf) and cohesion fund 2007-2013 allocation to risk-sharing instruments, a revision and budgeting of the forecast of the own resources, resulting in a change in the distribution between member states of their own resources contributions to the eu budget, and the replacement of the ‘dash’ presented in payment appropriations for a budget line 16 03 05 01 – preparatory action – euroglobe by a token entry (p.m.) to make a transfer possible.
in writing. − a vote in favour would mean granting of discharge of the efsa when the court of auditors have failed to rule the accounts admissable. there is a definite urgency in calling for greater transparency and further austerity in keeping with the current economic climate.
in writing. − i welcome this report which encourages the european food safety authority to improve the openness and transparency of the risk assessment process, to better take into account independent peer-reviewed scientific literature and to provide detailed justification when it rejects diverging views; and encourages the authority to increase dialogue and cooperation with external experts and national agencies, especially when they hold diverging views on a specific risk assessment process.
in writing. − a vote in favour would mean the granting of discharge of the ema when the court of auditors have failed to rule the accounts admissible. there is a definite urgency in calling for greater transparency and further austerity in keeping with the current economic climate
in writing. − i welcome this report which acknowledges the european medicines agency’s efforts to address the discharge authority’s concerns with regard to the prevention and management of conflict of interest; and notes in particular the reports of 29 june 2012 and 7 august 2012 received by the discharge authority on the review of the conflict of interest management cases identified by the ias and on the review of potential conflicts of interest of experts involved in assessing the medicinal product pandemrix.
in writing. − this updates the authorities in certain non-eu countries including canada, switzerland, norway to allow the import of forest tree seeds. to oppose it is to block trade yet to support the motion is to endorse an eu competence i do not agree with so i have chosen to abstain
in writing. − i voted for this proposal for the inclusion of forest reproductive material of the ‘qualified’ category within the scope of the decision and the updating of the name of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of production.
in writing. − parliament voted to designate 2013 european year of citizens with the aim of raising awareness of eu citizenship. events will be organised during 2013 to explain the rights of citizens who decide to study, work, set up a business or draw their pension in another member state. i have deep concerns about the free movement of people and the strains it puts on public services and manners in which these rights can, and indeed are, abused. i therefore cannot sanction a programme which will effectively endorse and promote the passage of people across the union, granting them the same benefits as those citizens already resident in a nation when austerity and economic problems could see droves of people relocating, placing unprecedented strain upon domestic exchequers. it is my belief that member states need the ability to control their own borders and set out their own package of benefits to encourage immigration that balances with the workforce need and the level of emigration taking place.
in writing. − i welcome the european year of citizens, which will be an opportunity to inform citizens about their rights, including information about voting rights, consumer rights and their rights linked to working and studying in another eu country than their own.
in writing. − on tuesday 23 october, i voted in support of designating 2013 as the european year of citizens. i believe this will be a key starting point in removing the obstacles to people fully utilising their rights as european citizens. throughout the year, the european year of citizens will aim to educate the general public on what it means to be a eu citizen, especially those who decide to work, study or open a business in another member state. it will also focus on cross-border healthcare and passenger and consumer rights. thanks to this initiative, uk citizens will be fully aware of what it means to be a citizen of europe and how they can personally benefit.
in writing. − while i believe the international and european community should seek to cooperate on matters such as this i am of the belief that it should not be an eu precedent to turn obligation to partake in border restrictions on individuals into the rule of law. it would be in britain’s interest to partake in restrictions in cases such as these but these decisions must be wrought in the british parliament and acted out under uk law according to uk government policy in relation to the third countries in question. i therefore abstained from voting on this matter.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the arrest, conditions of detention and subsequent death in custody of sergei magnitsky represent a well-documented and substantial case of disrespect for fundamental human rights.
in writing. − i cannot endorse in principle an effort to create pan-european legislation over airspace despite condoning cooperation on matters of air traffic safety and management. the eu has a history of disastrous policy-making in harmonised fields from fisheries policy to farming. the implementation of this legislation could result in a tangled web of bureaucracy that would benefit neither the aerospace and passenger air industries nor the passengers that use the services. i am also concerned by proposals in line with co2 reductions that could pass the burden of cost down to airlines and ultimately the public.
in writing. − mr president, today i have voted in favour of the implementation of the single sky legislation, which seeks to reduce the fragmentation of the european airspace and create additional capacity, as well as to increase the overall efficiency and safety of air traffic. i agree that the time has come for national governments to deliver on the commitments they made 10 years ago to create a single european sky (ses). as air traffic in europe fast approaches maximum capacity, it is imperative for both the environment and the european economy that airspace is maximised through a more coordinated approach. i believe that my colleague, mrs foster, has done a commendable job in bringing forward these important proposals and i am happy to support them.
in writing. − i welcome this report which sets out to address the recent commission report on ‘the implementation of the single sky legislation: time to deliver’. although there have already been many positive steps in the right direction, there is still a long way to go, and 2012 is expected to be a pivotal year for the implementation of the ses.
in writing. − the cooperation of airlines and airports in the protection of passenger rights is something i in principle agree with, but as a staunch opposer to the creation of further european legislation and eu competencies i have voted against the harmonisation of compensatory rights for delays. i fear that creating pan-european legislation in this area would not protect airlines in incidents where planes are forced to be grounded and create complex insurance in matters where passengers are seeking compensation in large numbers. meps urged the commission finally to define clearly the ‘extraordinary circumstances’ causing interruption of services for which airlines cannot be held responsible. it is essential that both customers and businesses are fairly protected.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the commission communication lists the rights applying to all modes – a package affording basic protection to passengers in the eu. the regulations relating to air and rail transport are already in force; those relating to waterborne and bus and coach transport will not enter into force until december 2012 and march 2013 respectively.
in writing. − this report, which has my full support, calls for a number of measures that will strengthen passengers’ rights across the eu. it recommends several sensible suggestions that would improve and build upon current eu passenger rights. regardless of the mode of transport – be it rail, bus, air or maritime – customers should have access to swift information in all official eu languages in the event of service disruption or if the need to seek compensation should arise. furthermore, a key recommendation of this report is to improve complaint procedures and tighten rules regarding price transparency, which will help put an end to unfair hidden travelling costs. the suggestions outlined in this report represent a significant contribution to the drive to improve and harmonise passengers’ rights across the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes that, in its resolution with observations forming an integral part of the above-mentioned decision of 10 may 2012 on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section ii – council, parliament asked 26 supplementary questions linked to the discharge procedure and regrets that the council refused to answer those questions
in writing. − because of the defeat of most of the amendments which i was supporting i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − i cannot support the appointment of mr orban to the european court of auditors. this would only exacerbate the growing trend in many member states to make political appointments to the eca. as i am sure you are aware, mr orban has a long history of political appointments in the european institutions. he was the deputy chief negotiator (2001-2004), and then chief negotiator for romania’s accession to the eu (2004-2005). he served as secretary of state at the ministry of european integration (2004-2006) before taking up an appointment as european commissioner for multilingualism (2007-2010). mr orban was then appointed a presidential adviser on eu affairs before being made minister of european affairs in september 2011. mr orban’s appointment is not in line with the policies of neutrality that govern such selection processes, and i oppose his appointment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the nomination of mr leonard orban to the european court of auditors as, on the basis of information supplied, he appeared to have the appropriate qualifications.
in writing. − in 2011, the broadband service firm talk talk cut the number of its service centres from 24 to 13. the entire waterford operation was closed with 592 workers made redundant. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i supported this application. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. irish authorities argue that talk talk was a customer service centre based in waterford, originally set up to provide services for both the companies talk talk uk and aol uk. the company supported talk talk’s uk market for broadband, voice and, more recently, for tv via inbound, outbound, email and white mail services. following the purchase of the uk’s isp division of aol, broadband services under the aol broadband brand were also provided. talk talk offered telecoms services to residential irish customers under the talk talk and aol brands and to business customers under the opal brand. it also provided full lifecycle management of talk talk’s customers in the uk. talk talk in waterford, as near-shore location for the provision of shared services for a foreign client (aol and talk talk uk), benefited from the international trend over the past decade known as business process outsourcing (bpo). bpo typically involves a company contracting specific operations or processes to a third party provider.
in writing. − in 2011, the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca closed two r&d sites and reduced its staff on two other sites creating 700 redundant workers. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i supported this application. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. swedish authorities argue that the pharmaceutical sector is increasingly affected by globalisation. the pharmaceutical industry is currently undergoing significant changes in order to retain its competitiveness in a tough environment. many companies are in a state of transition; reorganisation, consolidation, mergers and acquisitions are being considered in order to maintain growth centres. the industry is increasingly seeking synergies to hold down the increasing costs of research and development (r&d) activities.
in writing. − in 2011, 878 workers in the shipbuilding industry in the region of galicia lost their jobs. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the spanish authorities explain that the shipbuilding industry consists of three main areas of activity: manufacture of other transport equipment (nace revision 2 division 30), repair and installation of machinery and equipment (nace revision 2 division 33) and manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment (nace revision 2 division 25). the enterprises concerned by the application are manufacturers of fabricated metal products which operate in the shipbuilding ancillary industry. citing data from the community of european shipyards association (cesa) and the gerencia del sector naval (gsn), which is a body under the spanish ministry of industry, the spanish authorities argue that the global financial crisis changed several of the conditions and expectations for the future development of the shipbuilding market. order books of european yards decreased both in cgt and value terms as an effect of the global economic crisis. the european order book dropped from 13.69 million cgt to 9.47 million cgt between 2008 and 2009, and further to 6.39 million cgt in 2010.
in writing. − while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis. the dutch authorities argue that the construction sector in the netherlands as well as in the entire european union has been severely affected by the crisis. loans to the construction sector and to individuals have been drastically reduced, prices of the construction materials increased while the demand for new houses decreased due to declining consumer confidence and the lack of liquidity.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the dutch authorities argue that the european aluminium sector suffered from a sudden drop in consumer demand (a reduction by 25.7% from average eu aluminium usage between 2008 and 2009. the production of zalco aluminium zeeland company nv was dependent on the construction and transport industry (which represented 63% of the main end-user market of aluminium products in europe in 2010). the majority of zalco’s aluminium zeeland company nv production was produced for the rolling and extrusion industry. almost their entire production of extrusion billets was used for the construction and transport industries, and in particular in the automotive sector. zalco aluminium zeeland company nv suffered from the declining demand – due to the global financial and economic crisis – in these two sectors leading, after unsuccessful attempts to overcome the difficulties, to bankruptcy at the end of 2011.
in writing. − 2 089 people lost their jobs at psa peugeot citroën in different parts of france as a result of a sharp drop in sales. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i supported this request. one of the criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the french authorities argue that the increasingly bleak growth prospects and the tougher credit conditions during the crisis have given rise to fears among private individuals concerning the safety of their jobs and have led them to postpone purchasing a vehicle. at the same time, given the deterioration in the economic situation, companies have also cut down on investments and, consequently, on renewals of their fleet of vehicles. thus, despite the temporary measures introduced by some member states (for example, scrapping programmes), the european vehicle market – particularly in western europe, which is the largest market for the group psa peugeot citroën – collapsed suddenly in the second half of 2008, with a 10.7% decrease in registrations of light passenger and commercial vehicles in europe in the third quarter and a 17% decrease in the fourth quarter of 2008, in relation to the same period over the previous year. the fall in the sales of vehicles due to the global financial and economic crisis has directly affected the economic results of the psa peugeot citroën group.
in writing. − 720 workers lost their jobs at the wind turbine manufacturer, vestas group, in denmark. the danish authorities argue that this industry in the eu has been seriously affected by changes in world trade patterns and a severe drop in eu market share. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. to this avail, the danish authorities argue that the wind turbine manufacturing industry in the eu, which is included in nace revision 2 division 28 (‘manufacture of machinery and equipment’), has been seriously affected by changes in world trade patterns, in particular a significant reduction of the eu market share. denmark explains that, although the european production of wind turbines has increased in the past few years, the global market for wind turbines has developed even faster, especially in asia and north america. for the first time in 2010, more than half of all new wind power capacities were added outside the traditional markets of europe and north america. this development was mainly driven by the continuing economic boom in china, which accounted for half of the new global wind installations. as a result of the dynamic global growth of the sector, europe’s share in total capacity was reduced from 65.5 % in 2006 to 43.7 % in 2010.
in writing. − 2,013 employees were made redundant by the german printing machinery firm manroland ag, two of its subsidiaries and one of its suppliers as a result of growing international competition and changing technology. while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy and a sad indictment of the economic woes in which europe finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation through austerity and cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should therefore not be in a position to pour money into its failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised market place. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and forge partnerships with third countries to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce in both good and bad times. member states such as the uk would have more financial aid to provide of their own accord without eu membership and without the burden of red tape that being a member of the european union inevitably brings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. the german authorities argue that the printing machinery equipment market is highly internationalised. manroland, together with its german and other european competitors, already operates on a world-wide basis. during recent years, emerging markets such as china, india and south american countries, e.g. brazil, increased their demand for printing machinery and therefore became important customers for german and other european printing machinery manufacturers. increasingly, however, they have also become important players in their own right on the supply side of an increasingly global market. producers china, india, south america, as well as a growing number of competitors from eastern europe, the usa and japan, have all achieved rising market shares during the past decade. as a result, german high-quality producers now face stiff international competition, mostly of lower quality and at lower prices
in writing. − i voted against this resolution because of the defeat of some key amendments. in particular i felt we should have re-introduced the so called ‘ex-ante control mechanisms’ rather than the current ‘ex-post controls.’
in writing. − i welcome this report. it is of utmost importance that crews being trained in different countries and under different systems operating on board the same ship have the capacities needed to perform their duties in a safe manner. training, in fact, plays an important role in maritime safety. training and certification of seafarers is regulated by the convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers (stcw convention), which was adopted in 1978 by the international maritime organisation. it entered into force in 1984 and was significantly amended in 1995. the main objective of the commission’s proposal is to transpose the latest amendments into eu law.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this legislation, which will ensure that seafarers operating in eu waters are entitled to better working conditions and improved training standards. thanks to the adoption of this resolution, eu law will now be synchronised with standards set by the international maritime organisation, including the implementation of a minimum level of training and higher medical fitness requirements, measures that will help prevent fraud and improve security training. seafarers’ rights will also be protected, as meps have rightly voted to preserve eu limits on exemptions to minimum rest periods. furthermore, the commission will be permitted to amass data on seafarers in order to gain a clearer picture of the profession in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in support of the amendment to the protocol on the euro-mediterranean agreement. the caa is the result of a regional process which has been initiated in the framework of the trade group under the ‘barcelona process’, and this protocol extends the agreement to european medicinal imports. i believe it is necessary to add such a technical framework to the pre-existing protocol in order to avoid damage to trade in pharmaceutical products between the parties during such a time of slowed global economic growth.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as i do not believe the time is right for the eu to be upgrading its trading relations with israel. i do not accept the argument that this is a mere technical measure.
in writing. − i am bitterly disappointed that parliament voted to endorse acaa. i do not accept the disingenuous argument of the majority of the epp and alde that this was a purely technical matter. it is clearly a political one. and this vote will send out the message that the eu favours increased trade with israel over the welfare of hundreds of thousands of palestinians who are daily subjected to a blockade of gaza, illegal settlements on their territories, an apartheid wall and property evictions and demolitions. trade can be a useful tool in development and peacemaking, but voting to accept acca is tantamount to endorsing the ongoing violations of international humanitarian and human rights law that israel is inflicting on the palestinian territories and people. through this failure to provide consistency in the application of its fundamental principles, and only weeks after the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize, parliament is undermining its own, and the eu’s, credibility as a force for good in the world. it makes no sense. i will continue to contribute to peaceful settlement in this troubled region, and strive for justice for all.
in writing. − this is a purely a technical agreement which aims to help eliminate trade barriers in respect of certain industrial products. unfortunately, anti-israeli elements have tried to turn this into a political issue. the first annex of the caa refers to good manufacturing practice concerning medicinal products. it does not imply recognition of israeli jurisdiction in the occupied territories. instead, it is a common sense measure that will reduce the cost of importing israeli products, none of which are produced in israeli settlements.
in writing. − the proposed protocol would eliminate technical barriers to trade in industrial products between the eu and israel, in effect extending some of the benefits of the eu internal market to israel and offering easier access to european markets to israeli pharmaceutical companies in particular. the process was previously frozen as the majority of political groups in the european parliament felt it was inappropriate given the political situation in israel. the socialist group believe the political situation in israel has not changed sufficiently and requested that the file not be voted on at the moment and instead sent back to committee. the protocol represents a clear upgrade of trade relations with israel, which we feel we cannot support in the current circumstances. furthermore, despite a request being sent to the commission for clarification on the position and labelling of goods produced in the occupied territories, this issue remained unsettled. the eu-israel association agreement requires that relations between the eu and israel are based on respect for human rights; labour meps feel strongly that any upgrade to this agreement would be inappropriate at this time.
in writing. − the eu has a vindictive, neocolonialist trade and aid policy towards the world’s poorest countries. it refuses to trade on fair terms with them, and has a desire to bully them economically. much of the poverty and insecurity in the world’s poorest countries was created by the eu in the first place. outside of the eu, the uk could pursue policies that genuinely help.
in writing. − although there are federal elements of this report with which i disagree, such as the mention of commission control of development planning, i voted in favour of this report because, overall, it is a positive and progressive report which includes an emphasis on respect for human rights (including lgbt and minority rights), democracy, the role of civil society, the gender equality and environmental perspectives, and the ilo core labour standards.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for a comprehensive and balanced report which reflects our parliament’s and our citizens’ perspective of a new development policy, which is more inclusive, coherent and sustainable. while we redefine our policies, let us not forget the humans behind these definitions and keep in mind that what we need is growth and development of people along with the economies. the s&d group has voted against paragraph 15. although important for education and the well-being of the child, family is not the only factor that affects and determines the future of an individual: society, schools, peers, work etc. determine the chances, risk and opportunities of each individual. the universal guiding principle of the eu’s development policy should be grounded in the eu’s values and principles of liberty, equality, respect for human rights and the individual, as defined in the lisbon treaty. furthermore, ‘family mainstreaming’ has no common understanding. family has various meanings in different cultures and we should not impose a model and certainly not promote a traditional definition of it, which would go against gender equality, provision of sexual and reproductive health rights, sex education, the rights of same-sex families and single parents etc...
in writing. − a few years ago i ran some workshops for young african politicians on creating prosperity in africa. they wanted: 1. an end to eu protectionism, which harms farmers and african entrepreneurs exporting to the eu; 2. to stop eu member states’ support of corrupt regimes; and 3. aid for short-term disaster relief, although they were suspicious of long term development aid. some were even against foreign aid altogether – especially direct budgetary support – since they felt it helped to keep corrupt governments in power. they suggested that any aid should focus on: 1. helping farmers to meet eu sanitary and phytosanitary standards; 2. building infrastructure which the private sector cannot finance; 3. developing robust legal systems, e.g. legal advice, training for lawyers and judges, legal staff, court recorders, documentation, etc.; 4. drawing up land & property registers, allowing citizens to register property and raise capital; 5. creating a system of mortgage finance to create property-owning democracies; 6. lending capital to entrepreneurs who are unable to access larger banks; 7. improving tax collection and government revenue systems to reduce reliance on import tariffs; and 8. training local politicians and civil servants for trade negotiations. we can learn a lot from them.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which among other things recalls that an active and inclusive civil society is the best guarantee – in both the countries of the north and those of the south – of good democratic governance, protection of vulnerable groups (in particular disabled people and minorities), private-sector responsibility and an improved capacity to distribute the benefits of economic growth.
in writing. − although this report includes some very worthwhile points to consider surrounding smes, including the necessary cutting of red tape and the need for a reduction in unreasonable administrative burden for small businesses, i cannot support a report which calls for any extension of the service directive and the consequent likely privatisation and liberalisation of our public services and utilities. eu workers’ rights must be defended, especially in this time of austerity and i cannot support any possible risk of them being further corroded.
in writing. − i voted for this report. only 25% of eu smes in the european union have been internationally active within the single market while only 13% have been internationally active outside the eu. since the eu needs to find new sources of growth to provide employment and wellbeing for eu citizens it should encourage smes to go international. the opportunity for future business growth outside the eu and especially in the new emerging countries is high, even though, because of the large number of small firms that are tied to local business, the unfulfilled potential within europe’s sme sector to go international should not be exaggerated.
in writing. − it is estimated that 40 000 eu citizens each year are not represented in a third country and require consular assistance by consular representatives of other member states; the ecr group recognises that all eu citizens are entitled to consular assistance if they face difficulty in a third country where their national consular or embassy is not present. and we see the value in eu member states cooperating in this area in order to help our citizens. the ecr group understands that this right is enshrined in law under article 20 of the ec treaty and we believe, therefore that this report is unnecessary given the existing regulations and frameworks in place. we have concerns that this report is significant in the on-going battle of some to further harmonise eu foreign, consular and diplomatic services. we strongly support the sovereign power of member states to exercise and retain responsibility for their consular and diplomatic services and hence oppose an extension of powers and funding to the eeas for consular duties. the ecr group has therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − it has been said that no other economic relationship in the world is as integrated as the transatlantic economy. you only need to look at some of the statistics. the eu and the us economies together account for around half the entire world gdp and for almost a third of world trade flows. mutual investment is more than eur 2.1 trillion. total us investment in the eu is three times higher than its investment in all of asia. equally, the eu’s investment in the us is estimated to be eight times the amount of eu investment in india and china taken together. there are also roughly 15 million jobs linked to the transatlantic economy. it is estimated that a third of the trade across the atlantic actually consists of intra-company transfers. there are issues that can get in the way of other trade agreements such as labour and environment standards, which should not be obstacles to an eu-us trade agreement. however, we should be careful that any eu-us agreement is not seen to force standards and agreements on less-developed countries. if we can guard against eu-us dominance, we should welcome a comprehensive transatlantic trade agreement across the political spectrum.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which welcomes the ongoing joint discussion between the eu and the us on how to work collectively to increase growth potential and foster financial stability in order to create high quality jobs; it underlines that in order to ensure long-term prosperity and employment, a joint commitment, and effort, is needed to create new opportunities for businesses both large and small, to promote entrepreneurship and to capitalise on the advantages offered by the uniquely integrated transatlantic market; it calls for negotiations between the eu and the us and other partners on how to work collectively to tackle the environmental crisis and climate change; it calls also for more joint commitment to achieve financial market stability.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr commissioner, the european conservatives and reformist group have always been one of the most pro-trade groups in this parliament, if not the most pro-trade, and we have wanted as many trade agreements as possible. in the absence of the wto or any progress in the wto and of my second choice, which would be comprehensive plurilateral agreements, we have to fall upon bilateral agreements, given that it is vital that we negotiate bilateral agreements with the largest economies of the world. japan clearly falls into that category. one of the things that we should remember in trade – and i say this as a former lecturer in international trade, to apologise for my former academic background – is that there is a myth in trade. countries do not trade with each other; it is people and businesses that trade with people and businesses in other countries for mutual benefit. all that governments can do is either facilitate by getting out of the way or get in the way with tariff barriers or non-tariff barriers – and all too often we see governments get in the way with these barriers. so surely it is time during this agreement – during the negotiations on this agreement – to reduce as many barriers as possible. however, unfortunately – as other speakers have said – politicians can sometimes be persuaded by entrenched interests, and we are all politicians and are all susceptible to those entrenched interests. we have seen this happen over the course of the last 18 months in discussions about these agreements. some industry players have talked about certain barriers, but as one of the previous speakers said, one person’s health and safety standard is another person’s non-tariff barrier. so i think we have to be sensitive to what is a non-tariff barrier and what is not. we have to recognise that the eu-japan agreement will be complex and that both sides will want to feel that their consumers and their domestic industries are gaining. so my colleagues here clearly wanted no agreement – or no start to that agreement – until we had overcome the whole list of non-tariff barriers. now that is unrealistic to expect of any trading partner, and i am glad that the commissioner has been a supporter – as have many of the other groups –of going forward with this agreement. it is essential that we negotiate all these barriers and perceived barriers, but actually we know that, at the end of the day, we have the ability to stop this deal if we do not feel that enough has been done. therefore i am pleased, and i hope that we will continue the momentum to launch these negotiations. if it helps – and i think it does help soothe some of those industry concerns – i support the binding review clause which allows the negotiating parties to step back after a year and to look at the agreement and consider whether the other side has done enough. we, the european parliament under the lisbon treaty, have the ability to say that actually, enough has to been done. but at a time when the eu continues to be crippled by an anaemic if not negative growth rate, when we are burdened with debt mountains and when japan itself has had two lost decades of growth, surely what we should be looking for is an enhanced trading relationship with japan which is underpinned by a free trade agreement in order to generate a 1% boost in the union’s overall gdp and up to 400 000 jobs. japan has other interests and other options it can pursue, and we have to be careful that we are not played off against other parties negotiating trade agreements such as the trans-pacific partnership being negotiated between the united states, japan and a number of other countries. but overall, i think that the eu has a unique opportunity to lay a foundation stone that could bring untold benefits to all of europe. it is my sincere hope that the european parliament will show that it can be a responsible and trustworthy partner in an institutional legislative process and will give its seal of approval for the start of immediate negotiations with japan. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – how very gracious, dr kamall. you said in your speech – correctly, in my view – that countries do not trade with each other; it is people and businesses that trade with each other. however, the leader of your delegation, mr richard ashworth, said on bbc television that three million jobs in the uk depend on uk-eu trade. on the basis of what you yourself have just said, do you agree with mr ashworth?
blue-card answer. – i am not sure how to address the honourable member. can i call you william, or the good earl? i shall not call you the good lord, for fear of upsetting all those in this house who are religious, but what i will say to you is that there is no inherent contradiction between those two facts. it is quite clear, as i have said, that people and businesses trade with people and businesses in another country for mutual benefit, but actually trade agreements can facilitate that and lack of trade agreements can get in the way. but people still trade with people in other countries, even though there may be no trade agreement, so actually there is no inherent contradiction between those two statements. if you think there is i would be willing to have a conversation with you afterwards, maybe over a cup of coffee.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in principle we strongly favour a trade treaty with japan, but it has to be fair to both sides. at the moment japan retains numerous non-tariff barriers. it is very hard for a foreign company to acquire a company in japan, and there can be undue political influence. the effect is that, while japan is always keen to export its own goods, it remains a complicated country in which to do business. nonetheless, the gross domestic product of japan is larger than that of france, belgium and italy combined. a meaningful trade agreement would be good for everybody. however, as my colleague, mr schulz, has mentioned, there are signs that the french and german automobile manufacturers and their lobbyists are seeking to frustrate, or otherwise limit, an eu-japan trade agreement. that would be wrong. this brings me to an important related point. because there are so many different trade interests in the 27 member states, all of which have to be satisfied in some measure, it actually makes it significantly more difficult for the eu as an entity to conclude trade agreements than it would be for a single nation state on its own. not easier, as is wrongly - and often - asserted. that is why, for example, switzerland, with a gross domestic product less than one sixth of that of the uk alone, has had its trade agreement in place with japan since december 2009, while this evening we are just talking about one. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i apologise, dear colleagues, for your not being able to hear my very quiet voice. i wonder whether i could ask you this question. you rightly said that japan can be a very complex country, and it can be difficult to access markets in japan and also to take over companies. but could not the same be said of some countries in the eu? could it not equally be said that it can be difficult to access some eu countries and take over companies in different eu member states? therefore, are you not just another eu protectionist? i wonder how you stand with regard to that accusation.
blue-card answer. – let me first of all assure mr kamall that his tones, although soft, are both mellifluous and even sometimes musical. to address the very important and interesting point that he made in the next 20 seconds: yes, many eu countries are protectionist. we are concerned in our country that it is not the level playing field that it ought to be, and that is one of the strongest arguments why we in our political party believe that britain should leave the eu, and that the eu in its present form is unreformed and unreformable.
mr president, we have a long tradition of trade with japan, and this free trade agreement is welcome. but the eu also has a proud tradition of human rights and environmental protection in its international agreements. this free trade agreement is an opportunity to demonstrate our joint commitments and concern for our planet’s wellbeing. japan must be aware of our concerns about their continued whaling operations and, despite their own forest protection, they remain the largest importer of illegal timber from malaysia, indonesia and papua new guinea. so, before we can conclude any trade deals, they need to know that we will expect them to clean up their act. we call on japan to stop the whaling and the asian forest destruction.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i particularly want to welcome this opportunity to debate not just the 20th anniversary of the 1992 programme but also ms bastos’ important report. there are strong links between those two because historically this parliament has had a deep engagement with the whole of the single market programme. the single european act of 1988 brought parliament into co-decision, but we have also consistently supported citizens and consumers in their engagement with the single market and in dealing with their frustrations. indeed, the report that ms bastos has prepared comments on a list of such frustrations, which we asked to be prepared – and that is entirely consistent with our role in encouraging action on issues like mobile phone roaming, car insurance, and other areas. these are matters about which citizens were frustrated and on which we have been to the commission and demanded action. the second linkage i want to make between the 1992 programme and where we are today is about the fundamental importance, as the commissioner said, of a clearly-defined set of actions to continue driving the single market forward: having those actions documented, having timescales for them and having deadlines in place. the single european act, which led to the 1992 programme, put nearly 300 specifications on the table. that was the scale of the task, in those days, in order to move forward with a single market. we now have the first single market act, and the second. in those acts we have a lot of actions, neatly packaged together, and they constitute clear demands to member states to move forward. we need this sort of continuing programme, ladies and gentlemen, and my nomination for the next set of actions is to get cracking with the digital single market. we know that is going to create jobs. it is not, in my view, being given enough priority, and that i think must be the next programme. i am already thinking ahead with my colleagues to 2014. this is an opportunity not to look back historically but to look ahead at what we need to do together.
mr president, as the ecr shadow on the bastos report, i was keen to stress the need for concrete action to solve citizens’ problems, which include the recognition of professional qualifications, obtaining health care abroad, opening a bank account in another member state and enhanced comparability of financial services on offer to consumers. citizens need to see tangible benefits from the single market. the amendments i tabled on this report covered the promotion of the internal market information (imi) system in the recognition of professional qualifications, enhancing the employability of young people and the need to prevent over-regulation. i was particularly happy that my amendments calling for the sme test to be applied consistently across all policy areas, and for a review of all regulations which negatively impact on smes, were adopted. in this regard i look forward to the report we have requested from the commission, with recommendations, on legislation which hampers smes, and that is due by june 2013. as we debate the single market act, having just celebrated single market week, i want to mention a significant figure i came across this week: between 2002 and 2011, 13 million jobs were created by the eu’s 21 million smes. they are our drivers for growth, and that statistic demonstrates yet again why we must avoid placing burdens on smes at a time when we need job creation. we have a responsibility to address the 20 main concerns in relation to the single market, and this is a good start. but we must be mindful, during these difficult times, that the european union was created for free trade, and we must keep this spirit of free trade and not succumb to protectionism. a properly-functioning barrier-free single market is what we need and what we must deliver.
mr president, in an ever more globalised world it is vital the uk does not put all its eggs into one basket. we are disproportionately affected by the eurozone crisis because we are too tightly bound to europe, with whom we trade at a deficit. the commonwealth represents a far broader international and diverse market place with similar systems of governance and a common language and includes some of the fastest-growing economies in the world. commonwealth markets have grown by 7.3 % over recent years, while the eu markets look set to contract. yet we are limited as to how far we can exploit our ties with the commonwealth due to eu membership. domestic bilateral trade and investment treaties become subsumed under the new eu trade negotiations, disabling the uk from forging independent and prosperous import and export contracts with the wider world. the eu model is cumbersome and outdated. the uk must embrace globalisation as a dynamic nation with full sovereignty over policy. isolating ourselves from the rest of the world by shackling ourselves to a failing eu project is dangerous.
madam president, the twentieth anniversary of the creation of the single market is a great achievement: one set of rules rather than 27 sets of rules, access for scottish businesses to a market of over 500 million people and a social model to underpin this freedom. europe is more than a free market. i am pleased that the commissioner this morning mentioned the importance of social cohesion. i also welcome your statement on basic bank accounts, commissioner, and i hope that credit unions and their important role are included in your discussions. speakers today are correct to point to weaknesses. twenty years ago we did not use mobile phones in the way we do today; in fact, most people did not have a mobile phone. now, the ability to access information and buy goods and services on the move is a driver for growth. i must emphasise the importance of the digital single market, which the chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has mentioned today. if i can give you an example, commissioner, concerning e-books and libraries, certain publishers today are making decisions not to allow libraries to access books in a digital format. you, commissioner, have an opportunity to prevent this ‘book apartheid’ from happening and to find a solution to the urgent challenges. we cannot allow books to go the way of digital music, where one company appears to determine the price of a download.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, erasmus started 25 years ago, and three million people have taken part. during the period 2007-2013 the eu has paid out grants worth eur 3 billion on erasmus. however, the economy has shrunk and youth unemployment has grown massively to 11.7 %. furthermore, the grant gives an average eur 300 per month, which is insufficient to cover the basic costs of living. if we add travel costs to this we can estimate that a family needs to pay at least eur 5 000 per year on top of the grant to cover the total cost of one of its members doing erasmus. how many families can afford this in these times of crisis? considering the lack of impact on employment and economic growth that the erasmus programme has had over the last decade, and given that it can only be afforded by those that are well off, we should scrap it. there are many other priorities that need more urgent attention. those who find it indispensable to have this development should pay out of their own pocket instead of imposing the burden on the taxpayer.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is before us today because there is a significant delay being forecast with regard to reaching a conclusion on reform of the common fisheries policy. that is not surprising given that, with the rodust report, meps have tabled some 2 600 amendments to the main regulation. my report was presented as something of a technicality, but there are some important messages to be carried forward from it. the report was unanimously approved by the committee on fisheries, which is itself unusual. it relates to ensuring that the access regime out to 12 miles which is currently in place should be allowed to continue until such time as the new cfp has been agreed. if we did not approve this report, the 12-mile access regime would expire at the end of this year. i am glad to say that the committee unanimously agreed that this would be unacceptable and unthinkable. the 12-mile zone has been a feature of the common fisheries policy since the initial regulation in 1983, and since then it has always been put into effect for a further ten-year period. this extension would continue until 2014, and then we will see what the new cfp brings. but i want to make the point that even the commission has accepted that the management of fisheries within the 12-mile zone has on the whole been successful: ‘generally managed successfully’, in the commission’s words. so drawing lessons from that, which effectively means that the fishing nations themselves have been relatively successful in managing fisheries out to 12 miles, compared with the general failure of the common fisheries policy as a whole, i think that there is strong case for extending the 12-mile limit both in time and in distance. but that is an argument for the rodust report, which i look forward to receiving.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee and parliament for allowing this report to go through so quickly. 15 000 people will die of hunger today. just to put this into perspective, that is equivalent to all of parliament and its staff, the council and its staff, the court of justice and its staff, the ombudsman and his staff and one third of the commission. the global population is expected to double and go up to nine billion people, and our food production output has to double to meet that appalling number of people that the world will have to feed. the current food aid convention falls short of what is required. the new convention which we will pass today will introduce new forms of assistance: local producers with local purchases; untied food aid; vouchers for farmers in developing countries that they can turn into money and food and that help agriculture in developing countries. i would like to thank everyone for working so hard to get this report through and for trying to save so many lives.
mr president, before we take this important vote i want the house to reflect on the large majority of men who stood up on the other side of the house to deny women their rights. (applause)
mr president, i am honoured that you have chosen to speak english today. i find that delightful. there are 20 concerns here about matters on which european legislation has focused, and they are important – about professional qualifications, opening bank accounts, having inheritance rights recognised, establishing rights to pensions and so on throughout the eu – but what is more important, in an eu where unemployment is growing very fast, is job creation. the engines of job creation in the single market are the small and medium-sized enterprises. they are in the vanguard when it comes to creating jobs and getting our economy moving, and the report has focused on that reality. that is why i supported it. however, 35 % of european citizens do not even know about the single market. they do not understand the legislative framework or our regulations. what we need is less regulation in order to enable the enterprising spirit of european people to garner its own reward through hard work.
mr president, this is a very important report. japan is our second largest trading partner after china, with the eu, and japan has invested heavily in the european union. japan’s production of motor vehicles, both in the european union and in my own country, the uk, is quite splendid. 140 000 jobs are being kept going – the number is in fact increasing – because of japan’s investment in the eu economy. likewise, we ought to be investing in the japanese economy. what we need to do is to ask the japanese not to keep on with quantitative tariffs and quantitative restrictions, but to open up their distribution networks to our exports and our services. it is sometimes very difficult to distribute within japan because of the way in which business is done there, and we need japan to understand that we should also be able to have a level playing field so that we can access the japanese market and japanese consumers in the same way that we have permitted japan to access our markets and to sell its goods to our people. this is a very important report.
mr president, i too want to congratulate you on your excellent english; keep it up. i will try speaking the language of dante one day, but not yet. the eu and japan should be proud to cement their partnership in a free trade agreement (fta). japan is not only a key european ally and a liberal democracy, but also the third largest economy in the world, with highly advanced systems of production and levels of consumption. as mentioned by my colleague, trade with japan is massive, generating over eur 116 billion in combined imports and exports last year. free trade is, after all, a cornerstone of what the eu is all about for the benefit of manufacturers and consumers alike. we must carry on developing and consolidating these markets, trading opportunities and strategic partnerships wherever we find them, and particularly those with democracies like india and japan, which will enable us to kick-start economic growth, with this being what is missing on our continent at present. in the 21 years since the first eu-japan joint declaration was made on trade and other issues, it is clear that political relations between the european union and japan have gone from strength to strength. this fta can only serve to benefit both sides.
in writing. − i voted against this as a prelude for serbian membership of the eu. there are already far more net beneficiaries than net contributor member states in the union, placing an even greater burden on countries such as the uk. europe is struggling through severe financial crisis and cannot manage those countries already in the eurozone, while all new member states must take on the beleaguered single currency. there are serious questions regarding democracy in serbia and the debate surrounding kosovo. i do not assent to serbia joining the eu and therefore have voted against.
in writing. − i voted for this report, the aim of which is to ensure the correct and smooth application of the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of serbia. the commission proposes an implementing regulation, to lay down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements.
in writing. − when one considers that just 13 years ago, serbia was governed by tyranny and its cities were being bombed by nato planes, the fact that we now stand ready to welcome that country into the eu is a remarkable achievement. serbia, like many of its neighbours, still has a long way to go before it reaches that ultimate destination of full eu membership, and the necessary paths of reform and negotiation will not be easy, but its new status as a candidate country is a crucial breakthrough for that journey, and a development that all in the eu should welcome. let us hope, in particular, that progress can be made on finding a solution to the kosovo question, and on repealing article 359 of the criminal code, the offence of abuse of office. serbia has made it this far – now we need to offer all the help we can to enable its citizens to realize their dreams of development and prosperity that so many others among us have come to enjoy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe in free trade. however, as the report concerns the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement, which includes as a general principle the observance of human rights, i feel i must comment on two recent incidents in serbia which are of concern to me. firstly, the recent behaviour by serbian football fans at an england-serbia under-21 match in belgrade was despicable. the fans made monkey taunts at black england player danny rose, and stones, coins and chairs were thrown at the players. secondly, belgrade’s decision to ban a gay pride event for the second year running is worrying. serbia should respect the right of lgbt people to free assembly. commenting on the banning of the gay pride event, the serbian prime minister said that ‘nobody will be telling anyone what should happen in belgrade’. in principle i agree, as i am opposed to eu meddling in issues which should be decided at member state level. however, if serbia is serious about accession to the european union it must ensure that fundamental rights are respected, and that means tackling all forms of discrimination, especially racism and homophobia.
in writing. − this is a technical measure to facilitate continued trade in seeds and plants. while to maintain balanced fauna throughout europe and avail ourselves of a spread of planting options is beneficial, to support this measure is to endorse a further eu competence, therefore i abstain.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. council decision 2003/17/ec provided the list of countries to be recognised for the application of the equivalence principle for importation of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and seed of oil and fibre plants from third countries. it also set out detailed requirements to be fulfilled, in particular to limit the period for which equivalence is recognised to five years, to be extended if all the relevant requirements are fulfilled. that period will expire on 31 december 2012. in order to ensure the necessary supply of seed to the eu market, the commission considers that these rules must be prolonged by amending the deadline until 31 december 2022, even if the temporary extension is currently foreseen for five years only. the commission argues that since the revision of the regulation on seed (under codecision procedure) will only be launched in september 2012, a time limit of ten years seems necessary to avoid the expiration within this process.
in writing. − while i disagree wholeheartedly with eu control of british fishing waters i am very much in favour of extending the time limit on the current 12 mile access regime. the article does not go far enough but i will vote in favour of even the smallest of improvements to the cfp until the time that britain can leave the eu and regain sovereignty of her own waters. member states can and do manage fisheries with a degree of success. whilst the management of fisheries resources beyond the 12 mile limits has been characterised by highly centralised and ineffective brussels control, management within the coastal zones by individual member states has been stable and successful. i hope that the commission learns from this and sees fit to restore national territories and fishing rights beyond the current 12 mile stretch. one member state has suggested that the zones be extended to 20 nautical miles. even this does not go far enough
in writing. − i voted together with my group for the extension of national fisheries management within the 12-mile zones of each member state. this is one of the very few aspects of the common fisheries policy which have in fact proved to be a resounding success. why? because it leaves member states with the power to manage their own waters. it is no secret that the management of the fisheries resources beyond the 12-mile limit, a regulation under the purview of the european union, has been a resounding failure. this is why i believe we must substantially increase the 12-mile limit for the period beyond 2014 (to 20 miles or beyond) and capitalise on the lessons we have learnt here in the overhaul of the common fisheries policy. since the management of fisheries controlled by brussels has always been over-regulated, highly centralised and utterly ineffective across the board, it is only sensible that we work towards a decentralised and regionalised system for the entire fisheries policy. the coastal regime stands as a brilliant example of how we must restructure other policies where powers have been grabbed by brussels and member states have been sidelined.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the commission proposal is seeking to extend the time limit on the current 12 mile access regime. within the framework of the existing cfp legislation, article 17(2) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 establishes a derogation from the equal access principle within 12 nautical miles of each member state. the derogation is in place from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2012. the current proposal seeks to extend this period to 31 december 2014.
in writing. − while facilitating ease of trade along a far broader reach is positive in an ever globalised society, be those indications small or significant, i do not accept the eu as the final authority of bilateral trade agreements, therefore i abstained from voting.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the european union and the republic of moldova aim at the mutual protection of geographical indications (gis) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade as well as to promote the quality in the food chain and stimulate the value for sustainable rural development.
in writing. − food aid is vital to combat hunger which has always been a primary global challenge. hunger and malnutrition affect a large percentage of the world’s population, with a death toll that continues to be far too high in the 21st century. i believe the international community has a responsibility to tackle starvation and malnutrition both at home and abroad. however i do not consider the eu as an independent authority with the right to distribute aid, especially given the poverty it has wreaked across europe, leaving tens of thousands of families reliant upon food parcels in countries such as spain and greece. the uk is one of the largest donors of aid to the developing world and has a long history of pastoral care, especially to its former commonwealth. due to my beliefs about the role the eu plays on the international stage i chose to abstain from voting.
in writing. − today, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges. while substantial progress has been made over the past decade on a number of fronts, progress on hunger and malnutrition has remained stubbornly slow. in 2010, an estimated 925 million people, or 13.6% of the world population, did not have enough to eat, despite decreases in income poverty in several regions; 98% of the world’s undernourished live in developing countries; 60% of them are women. malnutrition is an underlying cause of more than a third of child deaths, an estimated 2.6 million a year. nearly one in five children under the age of five in the developing world is underweight. long-term under-nutrition has left millions of children suffering from stunting, putting them at risk for diminished cognitive and physical development. the number of people worldwide affected by disasters, including as a consequence of global climate change, is on the rise. the food assistance convention (fac) 2012 is fully in line with the eu’s ongoing efforts to contribute to reducing poverty and eradicating hunger globally in the framework of the millennium development goals. the continuing need for an international, legally binding framework that defines and provides the commitments and instruments for the delivery of food assistance to developing countries is obvious.
in writing. − i am against this step to harmonise consular protection to all eu citizens. i believe strongly that the uk should be an independent member state with its own foreign policy and its own embassies and therefore am against making it compulsory to give consular aid to non-uk eu citizens where this decision has not been reached in a bilateral agreement between the uk and a third country. the proposal that diplomatic and consular services of all eu member states must give any eu citizen seeking help abroad the same protection that they give their own nationals paves the way for closing british embassies abroad and undermining the british presence internationally. it is up to individual countries to establish consular facilities overseas and offer protection to their own citizens.
in writing. − i welcome this report. in cases of crisis situation, the report proposes that the union delegation is in charge of coordinating and providing assistance regarding the preparation for and in case of crisis. in order not to put an unbearably heavy burden on the lead state, or any member state present in the area, it should be the union delegation who deals with all the coordination of cooperation, including the contingency plans among member states and evacuation. it should be the union delegation, who should make sure that all eu citizens, including the unrepresented citizens are covered by contingency plans. this idea is in line with the article 35 of the treaty of the european union (teu) which says that ‘the diplomatic and consular missions of the member states and the union delegations in third countries (...) shall cooperate in ensuring that decisions defining union positions and actions (...) are implemented. they shall contribute to the implementation of the right of citizens of the union to protection in the territory of third countries as referred to in article 20(2)(c) of the tfeu and of the measures adopted pursuant to article 23 of that treaty.’
in writing. − it is estimated that 40 000 eu citizens each year are not represented in a third country and require consular assistance by consular representatives of other member states; the ecr group recognises that all eu citizens are entitled to consular assistance if they face difficulty in a third country where their national consular or embassy is not present. and we see the value in eu member states cooperating in this area in order to help our citizens. the ecr group understands that this right is enshrined in law under article 20 of the ec treaty and we believe therefore that this report is unnecessary, given the existing regulations and frameworks in place. we have concerns that this report is significant in the on-going battle of some to further harmonise eu foreign, consular and diplomatic services. we strongly support the sovereign power of member states to exercise and retain responsibility for their consular and diplomatic services and hence oppose an extension of powers and funding to the eeas for consular duties. the ecr group has therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − the basis of this notion has actually featured in eu law since the maastricht treaty 20 years ago, and in many cases it is extremely useful for eu citizens to be able to make emergency use of other states' consular provisions abroad. the eu is nothing if not a solid alliance of nations united in friendship, and when an individual who is far away from home falls into difficulty or needs urgent help, occasional access to the services of a different state is an enormous benefit. but compromise is key: while smaller states should be allowed to opt in to consular protection organised at eu level, those states with larger resources should not be forced into giving way to the eeas controlling consular matters. the uk is proud of its network of bilateral consular arrangements, and will firmly resist any pressure to abandon them.
in writing. − labour meps supported this proposal, which will allow eu citizens to seek consular assistance from the embassy of any other eu member state. for example, if a uk citizen ran into trouble in a country where there is no british consular representation, they could apply for help to the embassy of another eu member state and expect the same level of treatment as if they were a citizen of that state. in the cases of the revolution in libya and the earthquake in japan, large numbers of eu citizens could not access consular protection despite the emergency situation; this proposal will put an end to such a scenario and should ensure a faster and more effective response by allowing us to pool resources. this proposal is a good example of how european cooperation can benefit all european citizens.
in writing. − comments on the single market demonstrate that many aspects are not working according to case studies and eurobarometer results. it is however the prerogative of member states and individual nations as to how far they wish to make systems accessible to immigrants and the responsibility of national institutions to forge resolutions to problems such as those that the single market is failing to address. just as a british person would have to jump through a lot of hoops before becoming resident in america, it is not unthinkable that new residents of any new country of domicile would also be seemingly burdened with the necessary checks and registration procedures for example that create watertight systems.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which among other things expresses its concern over the fraudulent employment agencies that engage in the exploitation of labour throughout the eu, thus undermining the proper functioning of the free movement of workers, and calls on the commission and council to draw up an action plan to address this issue, for example by closer cooperation between national labour inspectorates.
in writing. − i believe that mr yves mersch is an excellent candidate, more than qualified to serve on the board of the ecb. in particular i have been deeply impressed with mr mersch’s foresight on the current economic crisis and his recognition that our economic recovery demands continued commitment to austerity measures combined with further structural reforms of the eurozone economies. i am also of the belief that his doubts concerning the efficacy of a financial transaction tax are well considered and strongly agree that such a tax would simply serve to deliver added pressure to banks and financial institutions trying to improve their capital position. however, i do have some reservations concerning the selection procedure that resulted in no female candidates and recognise that if mr mersch is appointed the ecb board will be all male up until 2018. this is no reflection on mr mersch himself, who i believe to be more than qualified for this position.
in writing. − i found this a difficult report because on the one hand i favour the appointment of women to the executive board of the european central bank but on the other am very critical that parliament only found its voice against the appointment of a man when the nominee was from a very small country.
in writing. − while i sincerely oppose dumping imports to or from third countries and believe it is an issue the international community should be compelled to tackle, i cannot sanction the extension of powers to the european commission.
in writing. − on 2 february 2012, the european court of justice in case c-249/10 p - brosmann and others v. council annulled council regulation (ec) no 1472/2006 of 5 october 2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitely the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain footwear originating in china and vietnam. in its judgment, the court of justice ruled that the sampling technique laid down in article 17 of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 may not be applied for the purposes of determining claims of individual market economy treatment made under article 2(7)(c) of that regulation. it should also be noted that the use of the sampling technique provided for in article 17 of regulation 1225/2009 for the purposes of determining claims of market economy treatment to be made under article 2(7)(c) is not in breach of the union’s obligations under world trade organisation rules. therefore, it is considered appropriate to introduce a provision clarifying that the decision to limit the investigation to a reasonable number of producers, by using samples on the basis of article 17 of regulation 1225/2009, also applies to the parties subject to a market economy treatment examination, in accordance with article 2(7)(b) and (c).
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls on the council to authorise the commission to start negotiations for a free trade agreement with japan on the basis of the outcome of the scoping exercise and clear targets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. while there are certain paragraphs my group and i voted against, we are firmly convinced of the importance of policy coherence and, more importantly, we believe in ensuring it works. we must continue to work towards achieving better coordination, increased burden sharing, greater efficiency and better results. parliament has currently no oversight capacity when it comes to the edf, no real measure of how the money is spent and very few audit mechanisms in place. eur 6 billion are lost annually due to the fragmentation and lack of coordination between the member states’ management of the edf. having a coherent and coordinated system in place, as in the case of the dci, which is monitored by parliament, could save taxpayers’ money. we have to make sure our outcomes are consistent with the promises we make to our taxpayers. in these tough economic times it is vital that every pound we spend on foreign aid goes to the right place and achieves the right result.
in writing. − i supported this report which welcomes that the commission, in its communication on ‘trade, growth and development: tailoring trade and investment policy for those countries most in need’, commits itself to support small producers and promote fair, organic and ethical trade initiatives, but regrets the lack of commitment to mainstream fair trade principles across eu policies.
in writing. − the eu is rightly committed to global development, and we should all support the aims and ambitions of those populations who do not enjoy our resources and prosperity. however, development must not simply be aligned to per capita income: conditionality is key, necessitating a consideration of governance, democratic aspiration and institutional corruption. such an approach enables a quid pro quo whereby more progress earns more aid. we must also aim for a more nuanced approach that treats each country on its own terms; for example, india, despite its low per capita income, remains home to some of the world's richest inhabitants and its government boasts ample resources to help the poorest citizens without current levels of eu intervention. if we therefore improve the targeting of aid and incentivise the delivery of domestic objectives, the eu can truly be instrumental in improving people's lives.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and colleagues for all their hard work on this dossier. one of the most important areas of mifid is that of the extension of transparency requirements to the non-equity markets. at a time of unprecedented low growth and economic hardship across europe, i am very glad that all groups in the european parliament have come together to give strong support to a text that facilitates and supports investment in the corporate bond markets and the government bond markets. as banks are facing higher capita requirements, businesses need to look elsewhere to raise money and reduce their reliance on bank funding. the bond markets are the perfect place for this, but the market structure in europe needs to support their needs and new transparency requirements need to be properly tailored to encourage investment. i think the european parliament text does this and should inform the still on-going council discussions in a similar way. i am disappointed, however, that we have not yet managed to reach a political agreement to guarantee the highest possible level of investor protection for all consumers in the eu. while member states will be allowed to ban all commissions and inducements, i think it is disappointing that the socialist group and others have chosen to protect bank business models over that of the end investors. my own member state and the netherlands are already well on the way to implementing a full ban. i can only hope that other member states will shortly follow. a common misconception is that mifid is about high-frequency trading and food speculation. we have, however, spent a lot of time discussing investor protection and g20 commitments as well. we have included requirements about minimum tick sizes, circuit breakers, algorithm testing and audit trails, all of which i think put it in the necessary scrutiny measures which do not hinder technological innovation but give safeguards and should therefore give retail and long-term investors confidence that they are not being subjected to unfair practices in the market place. i hope other groups will support me in the vote tomorrow for the introduction of a requirement to synch all business clocks to one standard. as basic as this sounds, the only way we can have a properly-integrated surveillance system for regulators and market participants in a consolidated tape is if everyone is working to the same clock. at its heart, mifid is about creating a positive environment for investors, both large and small, and for the companies that need to raise money in our markets.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the uk is home to over 36% of the eu’s wholesale finance market. it dominates europe’s financial otc trading and has a central role in foreign exchange and interbank money. these two reports represent an attack on that position. such detailed micro-regulation can only drive up costs and make otc products less attractive. europe’s regulators, who now control these matters, know this perfectly well, and that is why they are doing it. driving trading back onto the exchanges is the means by which the european union asserts its control and limits both criticism and independence. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) report claims it wants to close loopholes. its impact in the real world is likely to be the opposite. it forces traders to engage in an unceasing arms race with the regulators. like water running downhill, trade moves to where it is most free. the eu’s ineptitude and parochialism, at the root of this approach to regulation, can only result in euro-sclerosis and euro-decline. tragically, these reports are additional nails in the coffin of the city of london’s global position, and they have been deliberately engineered by paris, frankfurt and berlin because they resent the city’s success.
mr president, when the choice is between either ‘safe’ or ‘maybe it is ok’, we have to opt for ‘safe’. there has been a lot of publicity about commodity derivatives and food speculation; its position management has been too flexible. i have never had any problems with the notion of fixed position limits, as long as in emergencies they can be tightened if cornering happens or varied if a major market position has to be rescued. one day, i remind you again, we will have automated real-time transaction mapping, enabling much better interrogation of data without it being a drag on resources. it would also enable comprehensive, faster monitoring in crucial areas like food speculation, and that is why i pursue openness and frand licensing in standards and technology and regret that a little more has not been done in this report. good work has been done on consumer protection, clamping down on inducements for giving advice to investors. citizens need to be sure that they are getting the best advice for them, not being pushed in a direction for the adviser’s benefit. but ultimately a total ban has to be the way forward.
mr president, i want to thank mr ferber and the shadow rapporteurs for making substantial and innovative improvements to the market and financial instruments directive. but i want to focus in 90 seconds on two minor but highly significant areas where the citizens of europe are demanding that we go further than the compromises that are on the table on investor protection and excessive speculation on the commodity markets. across europe, consumers have been victims of the mis-selling of investment advice because of this perverse incentive in the commission inducement system which creates a bias towards products paying the highest level of commission and away from the best interests of the client or the investor. studies by the german institute of consumer policy show that disclosure and transparency do not work. there is clear evidence that consumers do not trust the independence of the advice if inducements are paid to push a particular product. so a ban is the only way to remove this conflict of interest and give strong protection to the investor. many member states – the netherlands, finland, denmark, sweden, belgium – have recognised this and are in the process of introducing a ban. the option of a ban will not protect consumers. in fact this option is encouraging former investment bankers and conservative members of the uk parliament to scrap the ban introduced by the labour government. i urge members to support the ban that has been put down by myself, the greens and several other groups. on excessive commodity speculation, let us end the situation and close the loophole whereby during the famine in the horn of africa, the world food programme paid eur 50 million from un aid to one large commodity trader, glencore, for wheat it ordered to feed the poorest and hungriest population in the world. this is immoral and unjust. we should vote for amendment 3 by the greens, which i co-signed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, this is my first opportunity, as chair of the committee, to contribute to the debate on the european semester. i want to thank jean-paul gauzès very much for accepting quite a number of the points my committee made. i was also pleased that commissioner de gucht mentioned the issues around the importance of the single market in underpinning future growth and dynamism in european economies in the context of the broader consideration of policies within the european semester. clearly the single market is somewhat different from the coordination of individual member states’ budgetary policy, because it is a combined policy framework for the commission and member states, within which the commission clearly has important responsibilities. it is important that the commission and the member states be called to account jointly in that process. however, as a committee, we feel from our experience since 1999 that now we have a single market act in place – which has set down very clear, specific commitments about action not just to introduce or reform legislation at european level but also to enforce and implement the policies at member state level – there is time to consider how to incorporate this more formally into the semester process. we also have our own governance processes, such as internal market scoreboards, which clearly ought not to operate in isolation. we have some new ideas here which i am pleased that the rapporteur has picked up. we are doing our own report on single market governance, which will link into this, but i hope that over the next 12 months we may make some serious progress on integrating our thoughts about the single market into the broader strategy for growth and dynamism in the european economy.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, whether it agrees or not, the european commission has contributed to the crisis by distributing the european budget without exercising proper controls. also, through multiple directives, it has imposed a huge burden of regulation on member states, forcing prohibitive costs on private entrepreneurship. how can the same institution which has failed so gravely make judgments on where and how member states need to put their taxpayers’ money? smes are the backbone of economic expansion and recovery. but by urging the member states to create access to finance for smes, we will achieve nothing, as their coffers are now empty. why not use the bank bailout money to help smes instead of helping failed banks? why not look for more flexible measures instead of calling for the inclusion of a core set of rights in workers’ contracts? the commission has not learnt any lessons from the past.
mr president, i would like to thank mr gauzès for his work on this important report. the european semester could be a valuable aid to budgetary surveillance if it is used properly. the semester is very useful for member states wishing to strengthen fiscal and monetary union. the country-specific recommendations for the united kingdom highlight the difficult but necessary measures taken by the uk government. these measures have corrected ten years of waste by the previous labour government. the commission fully supports the fiscal consolidation implemented by the united kingdom. it recognises the importance of apprenticeship programmes to combat youth unemployment. finally, it approves the reforms we are making in the banking sector. unfortunately, the first draft report by mr gauzès was defeated by political amendments in the econ committee. these amendments have transformed this balanced report into a political manifesto for a federal europe. these amendments are unacceptable and my group cannot vote for this report.
mr president, the report is not so much a piece of economic reasoning as a tautology. more integration is seen as necessary to achieve more integration. coordination is not an answer to unemployment but is seen as an end in itself; it is not so much a cure for unemployment as displacement activity for those without a cure. the answer to the problems of the south is not austerity, which produces only more unemployment. it does not even do what is written on the tin, which is reducing debt. most of the countries of europe need reflation without inflation. we must remember that what is physically possible must be financially possible, or there is something wrong with the financial system. we need to see an abandonment of the euro experiment and southern countries released to enjoy export-led booms. we must reject globalism, protect and recreate our industries and reject the coded references in this report to wage cuts and worsened economic conditions. we must not drive down our wages and conditions... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i very much welcome russia joining the wto. i think the issue, though, is about whether russia successfully adopts wto procedures. what does joining the wto actually mean in practice? the official commitments include non-discriminatory treatment of imports of goods and services, reducing tariffs and binding tariff levels, ensuring transparency when implementing trade measures, limiting agricultural subsidies, enforcing intellectual property rights and foregoing the use of local content requirements and other investment measures which limit imports. it also requires them to open government procurement contract opportunities to foreign firms and to accept that the wto will settle trade dispute procedures. that is quite a long list for russia to sign up to. it is quite a challenge for russia. for example, russia has export duties on no less than 450 types of products at the moment, and duties will be reduced from 19 % to an average of 8 %. russia is still a tough place to do business. it is ranked 120 in the world ‘ease of doing business’ rankings, and putin called the accession process to the wto an ambush of russian economic interests. so i very much welcome the move towards the wto, but there are some tough challenges ahead.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to address the issue of the resignation of mr dalli and the tobacco products directive. in relation to mr dalli, i will not repeat what many of you have read in the european, national and international media, which merely highlights the fact that many questions remain unanswered. whether mr dalli is guilty of misconduct or not is currently as clear as mud. the european parliament and the european public deserve to be better informed on such matters, and i hope they will be in future. i will now move on to what i consider a more serious concern – namely the status of the tobacco products directive following the resignation of mr dalli. tobacco kills over 600 000 eu citizens a year and is a public health scourge which demands stronger action. i remain unconvinced by statements from the commission that the tobacco directive remains a priority. the commission says that the directive will not be delayed, but that at the same time work will continue once the new maltese commissioner is in place, perhaps delaying it by months. dg sanco has finished its work on the tobacco directive and i understand that inter-service consultation is complete or nearly completed. i fail to understand why it is necessary to wait for the new commissioner to be in place in order to progress this directive. i would therefore ask the commission to release the proposal swiftly, in the interests of the health of european citizens.
madam president, it is hard to keep up with the uk at the moment, is it not? the foreign secretary, in a speech in berlin this week, said the eu should look to decentralise. meanwhile, the prime minister admitted to the house of commons that in order for banking union to succeed, the euro zone would need to federalise. after shedding his cast-iron guarantee of a referendum on the lisbon treaty, david cameron guaranteed a referendum on any new eu treaty drawn up. so now mr barroso has called for a new treaty creating a democratic federation of nation states, one would assume that the british people will get to vote on something that would barely include the uk at all. what would cameron’s mythical referendum be, and when would it take place? he knows ukip is set to come out on top in the next european elections. why not give britain the ‘in’ or ‘out’ vote before 2014? if europe wants to federalise, but is finding britain staggering about in a state of confusion, messing things up, then perhaps the eu should start seriously debating a uk exit.
madam president, meps have immunity intended to protect the freedom of expression. however, most of us in this chamber would agree that it should never cover immunity on grounds of hate speech. as a representative from the north of ireland, an area emerging from conflict, i can state that we are working very hard towards conflict resolution and reconciliation. we know that conflict can only be resolved by engaging with your enemy, negotiating a settlement, talking and making space for the other, moving away from the intransigence of: ‘i am right and my enemy, my opponent, must accept my righteousness’. given that this parliament emerged from a war, from a conflict, and aims to build prosperity and solidarity, it should without hesitation disassociate itself from any mep whose comments incite hatred. mep nick griffin’s inflammatory comments while in belfast, which have resulted in the police service preparing a file for the public prosecution service, and his outrageous twitter postings last week, putting the lives of two gay men at risk, should not be covered by mep immunity and privileges.
madam president, we have many times heard mr nigel farage of the uk independence party (ukip) – there is his union jack flying on his empty desk over there – criticise the finances and the financial management of the european union, but what about the financial management of his party? two years ago, nigel farage pledged complete transparency for the expenses of his meps, with statements published and updated quarterly. but, as so often, ukip was lying. looking at his own website, mr farage’s expenditure accounts are a complete fabrication. they are missing most details and are entirely unaudited; they are simply make-believe. he even claims he has lost his receipts. he criticises the european union’s management of its finances, but he cannot even keep his own receipts. his deputy, paul nuttall, has not updated his accounts for two years. his website details show general expenditure that only accounts for a fraction of what we know that meps actually get paid. so where has the rest gone? it goes, as we all know, into the personal bank accounts of meps, so maybe we can assume that it has gone into his back pocket – unless he can explain otherwise. ukip has broken its promise. far from being transparent, it is opaque and dirty. it pretends to be honest, but in reality it is practising a great game of deceit. next time mr farage stands up and asks questions of the european union, maybe members should start demanding some answers from him.
madam president, i was extremely disappointed – but not altogether surprised – to receive the negative reports about the recent belarus elections. these elections represented a rubber-stamping exercise to support a foregone conclusion. the lukashenko regime, now in its 19th year, has been ruthless in its persecution of political opponents and gagging of the press as part of a desperate attempt to cling on to power by whatever means. to this end, one man’s hubris has come at the expense of the hopes and dreams of a generation of belarusian people, denied the opportunity to determine their own future in an atmosphere of fairness, transparency and freedom from fear, including fear of the kgb. our only hope must be that the citizens of belarus will eventually be granted the chance to vote for their own leaders, and live the lives that they choose. we in the european union and in this parliament should afford them every assistance to achieving that noble goal.
madam president, the odds were heavily stacked against it, but we had a peaceful transition of power. it happened, we should welcome it, and we should congratulate mr ivanishvili and his government on assuming office. his commitment to an early visit to brussels, and his appointment of alex petriashvili as european affairs minister, suggests we can be confident in the government’s european intentions and must look forward to progress towards an association agreement, a free trade agreement and visa-free travel, and new efforts in the geneva international discussions. but let us not underestimate or forget how bad things had become: the reports of the international election observers about harassment and intimidation during the campaign; the regular reports from amnesty international about the situation in georgia; and those horrific prison torture videos that came out. only time will tell whether mr saakashvili’s acceptance of defeat was a virtuous bow to democratic values, or a tactical retreat under international pressure, as tedo japaridze has suggested. the foreign affairs council stressed the importance of an effective political opposition and a vibrant civil society and of supporting capacity-building. i think they might start by deploring the tone and the language of the speech by the member of the georgian parliament giorgi gabashvili in the debate yesterday.
madam president, i too fully applaud the georgian people for the dignified and peaceful way in which they conducted their elections, and congratulate the georgian government on its speedy implementation of the people’s democratic will. georgia is an unrecognisable place from the dictatorship which oppressed its people until just nine years ago. it has now demonstrated that it is a mature democracy. while we note the fact that the georgian state still has some work to do on other fronts, the preliminary cohabitation signals from president saakashvili and prime minister ivanishvili are extremely encouraging, with a very smooth handover of democratic powers. i welcome improved georgia-russia relations, but of course tbilisi should not compromise over its territorial integrity or european westward leanings. the new prime minister must of course fully respect minority rights within georgia, in particular its large armenian minority.
blue-card question to ana gomes. – normally i have enormous respect for ana gomes’ research but on this one she has got it hopelessly wrong. is she aware that the people who have been arrested and jailed are the very people who have been asking for christian churches to be shut, for non-christian and non-muslim faiths not to be practised in the united arab emirates, and for women to have to wear the burka and not to work, drive, wear uniform or take part in public life? these are the people, the 62 people, who have been arrested and are being tried. is ms gomes not aware of what they have been saying?
author. − mr president, the uae is a relatively open and diverse society with more than 100 000 british citizens residing there. this openness to outside influences continues to result in a better understanding among the governing élite of the importance of human rights. the eu and the uae have an important economic and security partnership as well. the uae’s human rights indicators are generally a lot better than most other arab states. women, for instance, occupy senior positions throughout the government, business and civil society, including three lady ambassadors. migrant labourers benefit from recent legislative changes to protect their rights and welfare. the uae has also taken important steps to crack down on human trafficking. this is not to gloss over concerns about the arrest of 62 emiratis, but sadly most of these detainees appear to be islamist hardliners who would like to reverse all the progress made in that country by closing down the churches. mr salavrakos has left, but he got it completely wrong: the people in prison want to close down the churches and persecute christians, and they want to repress women. those in this house who think that religious fundamentalism is the answer to improving human rights in the gulf are sadly mistaken. whilst the ecr group accepts that there are serious concerns about some aspects of human rights in the uae, the situation is far worse in some neighbouring countries. indeed, iran, which regularly executes juveniles and gay people, is perhaps the most shocking. this resolution today is therefore unnecessary because it distracts attention from the real issue in the gulf region: iran’s desperate efforts to acquire nuclear arms, and its gross violations of human rights. of course the uae government must fully investigate the allegations against the 62 detainees. if there is no good evidence against them, these individuals should be released. if, on the other hand, there is clear evidence of a crime, the government should charge them and try them without delay in accordance with the law. but the idea that the uae is a serious human rights violator is completely absurd.
blue-card question. − mr president, i would just like to ask mr kohlíček: if the uae is such an undesirable place to work, why are there thousands and thousands of people from the indian subcontinent, from as far afield as bangladesh and the philippines, who would love to have a job in the uae, where they get one of the highest wages in the middle east for the work that they perform? there are also more than 100 000 brits and other europeans living there as well, so this idea that the people there are being exploited or in some kind of forced labour is also frankly absurd.
mr president, sometimes i want to weep. with syria in flames, with syria and turkey at loggerheads, with iran enriching uranium, with pirates running amok in the indian ocean, with al-qaida in mali, and with boko haram running riot in nigeria, what does the european parliament think is urgent? human rights in the uae. the uae is one of the better places in the middle east compared to some of the other countries. the human rights record in some of those neighbouring countries is appalling. why are we talking about the uae and not about those countries? is it some envy or jealousy that we are expressing? why is it that we had this extraordinary speech from my colleague mr kohlíček saying that people are going from india to live in terrible conditions in the uae? india is a democracy and, if they leave india to work in the uae voluntarily – nobody is taking them by force – then return and then go back again, that means that the conditions in the uae must be better than in india. if the conditions were not better than india, why would they go? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am very happy to answer the honourable member’s question. we are not talking about bahrain, we are not talking about kuwait, we are not talking about saudi arabia, we are not talking about the other countries in the region; we are talking about the uae. the uae has a better record on human rights, on looking after its migrant workers and on all the other conditions on the iccp of the united nations than of any of the other countries in the region. but i ask myself a question here: millions of migrant workers voluntarily go and work in the uae. they leave appalling slums in india, sri lanka – where i come from – and bangladesh. they go there to have a better life. nobody is forcing them to go.
author. − mr president, we have seen that it is not so easy to stand up against forces like the taliban when one personally, one’s family and those close to one are actually being threatened, and indeed murdered. we in this parliament commend malala’s bravery and that of hina khan and countless others – those girls, and boys, who attend education even when they are under threat. there has been political and public outcry in pakistan over this tragic event, and we should be supporting that outcry. the women’s caucus in the parliament has been instrumental in changing the laws in pakistan. the problem will now be the implementation, because for some, like the taliban, education is a threat to the power structure. we have seen almost 1 000 attacks on schools in that area of pakistan, so we know it is crucially important for the government to invest in universal education and an open curriculum. we should be supporting it in every way we can to stand up against the forces of oppression.
author. − mr president, this cross-party motion strongly condemns the brutal attempted murder of malala yousafzai by taliban insurgents. may i firstly take the opportunity to welcome the medical assistance provided on the ground and later in pakistan, and also at the queen elizabeth hospital in birmingham, where malala arrived a few days ago. her courage in campaigning for the right to education has really touched the world. we have to look at the situation in pakistan, where 7 million children are out of school, some due to the practice of child marriage, others due to child labour, and others simply because parents are too frightened to send their children, particularly girls, to school. the house today is urging the pakistan government to step up its efforts in respecting the provision of primary education to all children and tackling the issue of youth radicalisation in madrasas, where a mandatory standard curriculum of basic education, along with a robust inspection system, is needed. pakistan is a sovereign state, so we in the eu cannot tell it what to do, but we must support it in the difficulties it is encountering. how can anyone think it is reasonable to try to kill a girl just because she wants to go to school? there has been widespread condemnation of this, and it seems that only the taliban would take that view.
blue-card question. – mr murphy, can you kindly explain what the us invasion of afghanistan, which was in retaliation to the attacks on new york that killed 3 000 people, has got to do with the attempted murder of a young girl campaigning for education? what has that got to do with your world, which is completely dominated by concepts of imperialism? it is absolute nonsense to try to conflate the two. please explain yourself before this house.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i begin by wishing malala a speedy recovery. this young girl has demonstrated, bravely and with a spirit that far surpasses her 14 years, her pursuit of the right to have an education in pakistan. this must be an inspiration to us all. like 75 million girls worldwide, malala has been denied the opportunity to learn – something which so many of us take for granted. while access to education for all children is, of course, our ultimate objective, it is becoming more and more evident that in many countries this is a problem that is unfortunately all too pertinent for girls. if the millennium development goals are to be truly realised, we cannot continue to ignore the plight of girls such as malala who face the threat of violence on a daily basis. unfortunately, as we have seen, this can have horrific and devastating consequences. i do hope that countries such as pakistan, which have made commitments relating to the rights of girls in education, continue to work towards achieving these goals. i would urge the eu and its institutions to do all in its power to assist those countries.
mr president, the cowardly attack on malala yousafzai was a truly heinous crime. barbaric violence was visited upon a child of 14, whose only perceived offence was to dare to speak out for the rights of girls to an education. it is a matter of regret that the pakistan government proved incapable of protecting its own citizens from such wickedness. unfortunately, there is a history of pakistani people, including christian ministers and converts, being targeted because they challenge the taliban’s twisted philosophy, including now the threat to kill the medics who are trying to treat her. it is hard to find the words to condemn strongly enough this sickening attack. however, that condemnation has echoed across the world and it is gratifying that so many voices in pakistan itself have also been raised in anger and in opposition to malala’s fate, not least those of many muslim religious leaders in pakistan. i am very glad to say that i am proud that she is now making some progress towards recovery with the help of the care and expertise of british doctors in birmingham.
in writing. – the miraculous recovery of malala yousafzai is yet another testament to the courage of this remarkable young woman. in pakistan there are people who want to use guns to prevent girls from being educated. when the taliban took control of the swat area of pakistan they banned girls from going to school. malala’s diary for the bbc following the ban was the first step in her campaign for female education. she risked her life by standing up to those who systematically victimise women and practise gender apartheid. even after the pakistani military had pushed the taliban out of the cities in swat, malala’s life was in danger. ultimately she paid the price for her courage when she was shot by the taliban earlier this month. as malala lies in hospital in the uk, i pray for her full recovery. i am proud to have voted for this resolution and i hope that women from all over pakistan, all over the world, will be inspired by malala’s bravery.
author. − mr president, cambodia has come a long way from the murderous tyranny of the khmer rouge and the killing fields, but recent events demonstrate there is still much work to be done. this house has been particularly alarmed by the deaths of political prisoners at the hands of security forces recently, the eviction and dispossession of hundreds of thousands of people by way of the economic land commission policy, the lack of electoral transparency and the intimidation of opposition activists. in the ecr group, we wholeheartedly endorse the eu’s efforts to promote democracy and respect for fundamental human rights in cambodia, so that its people are able to protest without fear, vote as they choose and live in stable communities unthreatened by the prospect of forcible removal.
author. − mr president, prime minister hun sen has been in power in cambodia for 27 years. he presides over a government which is authoritarian and corrupt and, as i found when i visited the country, a people which lives in fear of arbitrary government action. though there has been some improvement – largely due to the efforts led by the european union – the judiciary is not independent, elections are not free and fair, and just this week the prime minister welcomed the threats by the two main opposition parties to boycott next year’s elections. yet any victory by his party in the event of a boycott would be as meaningless as mr lukashenko’s victory in belarus last month. unless the conditions exist for the opposition to play a full and fair role in the elections, no international support should be provided for those elections. i welcome baroness ashton’s statement of concern for the situation of mom sonando of the association of democrats and his colleagues, who were convicted last month. i hope the commission and council will keep up pressure for the security and the welfare of opposition leader sam rainsy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the human rights situation in cambodia has continued to deteriorate in 2012. violations of land and housing rights are still common, along with intimidation and criminalisation of human rights defenders and political activists. the cases of mom sonando and chut wutty and others are all worrying examples of the human rights situation. there has been increased granting of agro-industrial concessions to private companies. in addition to the gross violation of the right to adequate housing, agro-industry-induced displacement in cambodia has led to widespread violations of numerous human rights and freedoms, such as forced eviction, reduced access to farming and grazing lands and the destruction of the forests which people depend upon for their livelihoods. the proper development of cambodia’s land and natural resources could have a positive impact on the lives of its people if undertaken in a sustainable and equitable manner and within the framework of the human rights obligations of the government. i urge the government of cambodia to protect the fundamental right of all persons to hold and freely express their opinions in a peaceful manner, particularly with regard to elections.
mr president, i welcome the award of the sakharov prize. it is great that opinion was unanimous that it should be awarded to these two brave iranian dissidents. however, as you know, i have profound concerns about another aspect of this house, relating to the situation in iran. at the same time as giving this prize, a delegation of meps is leaving tomorrow to actually hold talks with the same iranian regime that we are condemning. i have to say, and we have just discussed this, that this is a disgraceful decision. (applause from certain quarters) the delegation is not cross-party; it is primarily composed of those from the left of the house. i do not doubt their commitment to human rights, but their visit will be abused by the iranian authorities and the propaganda value will be immense. i welcome the award of this prize, but i think we are in danger of sending mixed signals two weeks after our foreign ministers decided to impose further and greater sanctions on iran. this is a profound mistake by this house. i hope the members concerned will think again before they go and sip champagne with the iranian regime. (loud applause from certain quarters)
mr president, an oral amendment on paragraph 5, which adds to paragraph 5: ‘expresses its concern about the reported threats received by 17-year-old hinna khan and her family;’ as an addition at the end of paragraph 5, to bring the resolution up to date.
mr president, i, too, warmly welcome the initiative to increase the competitiveness of financial services products and services and to create a truly free securities market in line with the eu’s most fundamental objectives. after some of the excesses seen in recent years of over-leveraging, particularly in the banking sector, we now want to see a well-regulated single financial rule book that operates throughout the european union. this can allow the city of london, which is within my constituency and which i proudly represent, to market its services across the eu and create a levelling of the playing field for all businesses needing to raise capital and for investors to invest in it. but in order to safeguard this free market and public confidence, we must ensure that protection for investors and the transparency of securities are maintained at the highest level. there currently remain fears about inducements to financial advisers and the potential for insider dealing and market abuse. let us now work to improve this legislation and deliver a free and fair transparent market for all financial services throughout the entire territory of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council decision to conclude the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the eu should work towards harmonisation of certification schemes as the main means of improving the energy consumption of office equipment through the eu energy star programme which provides both parties with third-party certification. single systems of accreditation benefit the consumer by simplifying the market and increasing transparency. they also remove a regulatory burden, which in turn will lead to lower prices for consumers.
in writing. − while it is regrettable that the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply due to the introduction of third-party certification in the us, i consider it preferable to maintain the lighter self-registration procedure in the eu in order to avoid additional costs to manufacturers, in particular smes. furthermore, it should be noted that the commission does not expect that the end of mutual recognition will negatively impact manufacturers who participate in the eu programme as they tend to focus almost entirely on the eu market. on the other hand, eu exports to the us would come mainly from large manufacturers who have registered their products already in the past in the us.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which reiterates that the increased use of innovative financial instruments should not turn into a strategy to reduce the size of the union budget but should serve to optimise its use, and welcomes the fact that in its communication on ifis the commission acknowledges that ‘the intention behind an increased use of innovative financial instruments is not to replace grant funding with financial instruments’.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which commends the ombudsman for having published and distributed to staff in all eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies the european ombudsman’s guide to complaints, with a view to encouraging the eu administration to improve its performance by deepening its commitment to the principles of a culture of service to citizens.
in writing. − i voted for this report but regret that amendment 3 to article 59 was defeated. this would have toughened up limits on excessive speculation on commodities.
in writing. − i voted for this report which states that in order to ensure the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets, investor protection and financial stability it is necessary to provide a mechanism for monitoring of the design of investment products and for powers to prohibit or restrict the marketing, distribution and sale of any investment product or financial instrument giving rise to serious concerns regarding investor protection, the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets, or the stability of the whole or part of the financial system, together with appropriate coordination and contingency powers for esma. the exercise of such powers by competent authorities and, in exceptional cases, by esma should be subject to the need to fulfil a number of specific conditions.
in writing. − the 2007 directive regulated the provision of most tradable financial products by banks and investment firms; this new legislation aims to strengthen this by increasing market transparency, in particular regarding derivative trading and commodity speculation, which were not previously covered. the legislation will also introduce new safeguards on high-frequency trading and labour meps supported an amendment to prevent traders pushing food prices up through excessive commodity speculation. in addition, my colleague, labour mep arlene mccarthy, put forward an amendment for an eu-wide ban on advisors receiving commission for recommending a particular financial product. this would provide much-needed protection for consumers from financial advice that is biased in favour of those who pay the highest commission, rather than what is really in the customer’s best interests.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which points out that the european semester is the proper framework within which to ensure the effective economic governance of the euro area member states that are linked by common responsibility, bringing together the multilateral surveillance of budgetary and macroeconomic policies and the implementation of the european strategy for growth and jobs as embodied in the eu2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which notes with concern, however, that in the run-up to the completion of its wto accession russia has not been fully living up to its future wto obligations, as it has introduced or extended a number of potentially trade restrictive measures, including a ban on imports of live animals from the eu, legislation including preferences for domestic producers in public procurement, decisions establishing seasonal import duties on certain types of sugar, and new legislation on a recycling scheme for vehicles.
in writing. − i strongly believe that the parliament elected in belarus falls short of democratic legitimacy and that the european parliament should continue its policy of not recognising it, both in its bilateral relations with belarus and within the framework of the euronest parliamentary assembly.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which congratulates the georgian people on the significant step they have taken towards the consolidation of democracy in their country; i welcome the fact that the democratic parliamentary elections of 1 october 2012 were conducted in line with osce and council of europe commitments, although certain issues remain to be addressed. this election is an important step in the consolidation of democratic, free and fair elections in georgia and of the political future of the country.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the harrowing images from gaza are a stark reminder that children are most vulnerable when they are not at the centre of international human rights protection. children need to feature much more centrally in our legislative and policy considerations at all levels; they are let down by public authorities and in so many ways their voices are not heard. economic policies being pursued by governments and being promoted by the european union give rise to countless cases of child neglect, which was clear from discussions at the child poverty conference in belfast last friday. while the people of ireland voted on 10 november to change the constitution so as to protect the rights of the child, the dublin government needs to adequately resource the essential support services for children and for families. but at least this was a step forward. however, the ease of international travel and the increase in international relations have led to a rapid rise in the number of international child abductions. this is why the hague convention on international child abduction is an important part of the international architecture for the protection of children, as it allows for abducted children to be speedily returned to their proper country of residence. however, there are concerns about the pace of resolution, some cases taking years to resolve while some are never resolved at all. the fact that the council is blocking the accession of third countries is a scandal; it must be reversed. the council is needlessly exposing children to risk and stands accused of not preventing child abuse.
mr president, this is an unusual example of the eu recognising a real problem which does need to be addressed internationally, though not necessarily by the eu. the problem with passing a law which prohibits people from purchasing something is that, the longer the process takes, the greater the chance of the purchasers – in this case would-be terrorists – stockpiling the items in advance of the ban. i can remember this proposal first being mentioned in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs at least a year ago, possibly longer than that, and of course we do not know when the legislation is likely to be passed and come into effect. i think it would have been preferable, initially, to agree internationally to enlist the support of the industry in adopting a voluntary code of practice, and then to encourage all countries, including member states, to pass legislation without delay. in the uk, for example, it is possible in certain circumstances to pass a law within 24 hours. the procedure in the european parliament is so long and detailed that it is likely that would-be offenders will already have stockpiled before the legislation is enforced.
mr president, this report seeks to generate a regulation to restrict members of the public from purchasing, and to require notification concerning sales of, a large number of substances which are commonly used for legitimate purposes. unfortunately, the uk has extensive experience of the use of home-made explosive devices – for example, terrorists have used fertiliser as a basis for bombs for many years. the uk does not need the eu to tell it how to manage the availability of such substances. this is a regulation which seeks to extend the power and dominion of the eu using the prevention of terrorism as a pretext. i and my ukip colleagues will therefore vote against.
mr president, last week the speaker of uganda’s parliament announced that the country’s anti-gay bill would be passed before the end of 2012. she claims that homosexuals pose a serious threat to uganda’s children and has promised that the law will be passed as a christmas gift. this is a terrible present for the ugandan people at a time when we should be celebrating peace and goodwill to all men and women. i have spoken to this house about the brutal way in which homosexuals are treated in uganda. the law, if passed, will allow gays and lesbians to be sentenced to life in prison. i believe that this is a violation of human rights, and the eu must respond immediately by suspending its aid to uganda. 40% of all eu aid to the country is channelled through the general budget support, which means that the money is paid directly to the ugandan government. the british prime minister, david cameron, has promised that eu aid will have more strings attached. the eu needs strings of its own to protect lgbt people in third countries who are under threat of oppression.
mr president, i would like to comment on an article in today’s daily express by leo mckinstry. he writes that the tory party should offer some kind of electoral deal to the uk independence party. now ukip should never accept any such deal for the following reasons: the tories can never be trusted. they have betrayed britain for over 40 years and they would betray anyone. if the tories wanted to offer the british people a referendum on continued membership of the european union, they could easily do so. they do not need to make any deal with ukip. if ukip entered any such pact, it would destroy our credibility with the electorate. ukip would end up in the same position as the liberal democrats, facing electoral annihilation, and the cause of britain’s exit from the european union would be lost forever. ukip must never compromise its campaign to restore britain’s status as a sovereign, independent, self-governing democracy.
mr president, i rise to speak about the situation in gibraltar, where the spanish government is causing huge delays for people going in and out of the territory, and to congratulate the mayor of la linea and her council who have themselves protested against this needless disruption to the lives of gibraltarians and others wishing to enter or leave the territory. i know that the partido popular has many domestic problems and no doubt wishes to turn attention away by reviving this great ghost of gibraltar, but it has no right to do so and i call on the european union to intervene to bring sanity.
mr president, i must apologise to mrs collin-langen for coming in right at the end of the debate, but i have been in brussels for a conference all day. but i first of all wanted to thank her very much for her first report for the committee. i think it is important to set this in context. this is a report on implementation of an existing directive. i think though that there has been considerable disappointment expressed by many colleagues here that the provisions of what is a very good directive are not actually being consistently implemented. that is really a crucial message. the broader message i would give to the commission is that in this committee we are not content just to pass legislation, but we want to follow it through and make sure that it is properly implemented. so i think there is some clear cause for action here. a number of countries have raised with us during our visits the question of sms loans. but of course it is down to them to deal with that because actually they do not need to apply the de minimis threshold to implement this regulation. but i think maybe the commission wishes to issue some guidelines on this basis. finally, i would say that the commission needs to take seriously our recommendation that this directive needs no further reforms. we actually want it to be properly implemented. we are not looking for a recast or fundamental changes to what we think is a good proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank mr becker very much for all his work on this report and his cooperation with all the shadows throughout. social businesses can contribute enormously towards employment, particularly for the disabled and disadvantaged, but i think it is very important that we recognise that social businesses are real businesses and should make profits and reinvest them. i am as keen to reduce administrative burdens for social enterprises as i am for any other kind of smes. in the uk i have seen at first hand the wonderful work done by royal british legion industries. a social enterprise employing disabled people, they compete in the open market and they succeed. they belong to a european-wide organisation called homabilis, sharing good practice and cooperating right across the eu. they deserve our support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as well as the chairman of the committee, i also had the privilege of shadowing both these dossiers and chairing the conciliation committees. i want to particularly thank both the rapporteurs for their persistence in dealing with very substantial technical issues. i note that mr manders wants to make them politically more exciting, but these are actually really important dossiers for both industries which are going to set the pattern for a simplified and effective type-approval system from now on. in the case of motorcycles, i think it is particularly important that we have brought the environmental and safety performance of motorcycles forward significantly. also let us remember that other light three- and four-wheel vehicles were included in this category. these vehicles are going to become more popular in urban environments and contribute to lower-carbon transport, and it was absolutely right to give them this framework. i want to thank wim van de camp in particular, because he also ensured that the phasing-in of those changes is handled in a sensible way and that we have effective and cost-efficient test methods. on agricultural tractors, again we had similar issues to contend with, but of course this also included road-going agricultural machinery, requiring a very complex series of rules and regulations. but we now have a genuine european type-approval system which will enable manufacturers – and there are many smaller manufacturers in this area – to present products for approval, and they can be sold anywhere in the european union. i particularly welcome the fact that we are anticipating the development of higher-speed tractors now that we have more agricultural contracting, so those are included. we also resolved the issue of having two categories of light four-wheel quad bike vehicles, one for agriculture and one for leisure use. overall i think it is a remarkable example of collaboration between the two rapporteurs. i think my committee has handled this in an exemplary way, and i will just conclude by saying to the commissioner that, of course, we are not finished yet. the scrutiny of aspects of the delegated acts – this is the first major package – is something that we will give great attention to, because we want to make absolutely sure that what is in these proposals is carried out satisfactorily and according to the needs of all the stakeholders.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is significant concern regarding the justification of article 18, which fails to provide any evidential basis for anti-tampering or for powertrains on functional safety and environmental grounds. annex xviii of the 2010 imco impact assessment clearly demonstrates this. the decision reached through trialogue to exempt bikes over 48 horsepower ties in with forthcoming driving licence directives, yet the regulation does not clarify this. if it is not about licence requirements and is based solely upon safety and environmental objectives, why are bikes over 48 horsepower exempt? the argument is somewhat circular. no impact assessment on the aftermarket part sales has been completed. if only fully type-approved parts may be sold in future, it could disproportionately affect smaller aftermarket producers who are unable to justify the cost of getting their products permitted. while the draft text has been on the imco website since 10 september 2012, it has existed in a shamefully incomplete form and the final document has not been accessible via the procedural file until this morning. what is being presented before parliament today has not been in the public domain, nor in the necessary required languages, for long enough to enable due consideration. the overall process is of dubious democratic legality. there is a distinct lack of transparency surrounding legislation being pushed through having been rubber-stamped without proportionate scrutiny from parliament ahead of the vote tomorrow. reasons of budgetary restrictions have been given by the commission for their manner of working. however, in light of this, i would ask at the very least that the vote be postponed until the correct democratic procedure has been followed.
mr president, today’s debate and previous discussions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs have focused on accountability and seeking solutions to the many outstanding issues which need to be resolved for banking union to work. the most important thing we, as parliamentarians, can do on this wide-reaching proposal is to guarantee legal certainty as far as possible. in the us, the overarching financial crisis legislation, dodd-frank, has come under huge legal scrutiny. a few months ago the cftc, which was charged with writing rules under dodd-frank, lost their legal case around position limits because the political agreement had been to look at where the position limits were necessary, whereas the cftc had interpreted this as implementing them without consideration of necessity. the wrongs and rights of this case are obviously up to the us legal system. however, there are lessons to be learned about how political compromises can lead to legal battles in the court. banking union will seek to supervise the eurozone’s largest banks. these banks have large legal teams, which they will not hesitate to use. unintended consequences need to be kept to a minimum and cross-cutting legislative issues identified and addressed in advance. above all else, we must shy away from political fudges and ensure that we create a stable and legal framework that will truly stabilise the financial system.
mr president, with all due respect to the rapporteur, we should call this report what it really is: a cry for help by the european parliament to remain relevant. the lesson still has not been learnt. we find ourselves in the current financial mess in large part due to the inefficiency of the european institutions. angela merkel recognised this by deciding to act intergovernmentally instead of interinstitutionally, during all the peaks of the crisis. now we are being asked to empower the same institutions to be the supervisors of this new european monetary union, which will also result in an additional burden to taxpayers. in a nutshell, this will entail more staff and even more money and will further remove powers from national supervisors, while the main problems remain unresolved. the eu needs to learn to do much less and do it better. more europe simply makes a deep hole much deeper.
mr president, as an economist i understand the intellectual arguments that for the euroszone’s monetary union to work it also needs fiscal union and banking union, but the reality seems somewhat different to me. for fiscal union, you will not restore confidence in public sector finances without greater transparency on public sector debts. eighteen months ago, member states agreed to greater transparency but many countries, including big countries, are still not delivering. secondly, on banking union you will not get strong supervision without a strong rule book. the so-called ‘single rule book’ is not a level playing field – it has many exemptions for big member states, it does not meet global standards and it does not end the dangerous feedback loop between sovereigns and banks. thirdly, monetary union, fiscal union, banking union does not equal the single market. this is not a new fact: it goes back to the maastricht treaty of 1992. if we want a single market of 27, then we cannot have a situation where those outside the eurozone cede rule-making to the eu, whereas those within the eurozone have exempted them and just have to comply or explain.
mr president, there has quite properly been a lot of talk about democratic accountability but i think that we need to think more about the strength of the executive authority. what we really need is a credible federal economic government clearly responsible for and to taxpayers and delivering sustainable fiscal and economic policy. in my view, this government must be led by a european treasury secretary, a high-profile political figure, and i hope that the commission, approaching the road map for the december european council, will insist on the inclusion of such a post.
mr president, ‘economic and monetary union is not an end in itself’, says the report. quite right: it is an instrument to achieve political union. the report claims that it will achieve sustainable growth and a high level of employment, but it admits that unemployment in the 27 has risen by 50% from 2008 to 2012. in those countries for which the euro is overvalued, mass unemployment and negative growth are directly attributable to eurozone membership. if they were to leave the zone they would experience export-led growth and a fall in their unemployment. the euro-led recession in the south has not left the north unscathed. its exports to the south have been reduced severely. more control and austerity measures will not reduce debt. they will reduce employment and profits, which will cut government revenue. this will lead to more debt rather than less debt.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time to the commission and i would like to welcome commissioners tajani and andor. the topic today is: boosting europe’s industry for growth and jobs. i will interpret this topic as widely as possible, but i should warn you that if your question is completely off the topic and deals with the common agricultural policy, for example, you are liable to be cut off. i will just remind you of the rules. questions are taken exclusively on a catch-the-eye basis; each member has one minute to put his or her question and after the commission’s reply has the right to put a supplementary of 30 seconds. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering, and if both want to reply today each commissioner has one minute of speaking time. the officials on either side of me have been catching your eyes and we will produce a list broadly in proportion to the group size. we are going to finish at 12 noon and we are now running some 25 minutes late.
i am going to take two more questions, but before i call the speakers i just want to explain that we try to keep a balance between the groups in proportion to their size. this whole procedure of question time is under review. one of the proposals is that we have an open and transparent ballot, rather than the catch-the-eye procedure.
this house has been indulging in quite a lot of rhetoric, in terms of the budget, about retaining and protecting the budgets for those instruments that have a clear impact on growth and jobs. one of these is the connecting europe facility. it is one of many. it is important for infrastructure in transport, energy and telecommunications. not only will it have an impact on businesses, it also helps complete the single market and it helps lever in private sector money. what i want to know is what the commission can do to make sure that these budgets – and i include research budgets, as well, in this – are in fact protected, in view of the council negotiations this week. and i do not simply want to hear an answer saying that we want a larger budget. it is quite clear that we may well be working with either a freeze or something close to a freeze. what are you going to do to help protect these budgets, whatever the size of the whole budget? i do not simply want to hear that we want more money.
that concludes question time.
madam president, as you will know, the united kingdom has given notice that it intends to opt out of most of the justice and home affairs issues controlled currently by the european union. if anybody does not understand why, let me introduce you to a young man called andrew symeou whom i visited in athens a couple of years ago when he was detained under house arrest, who was a victim of what was very obviously a case of mistaken identity, as was established when the case finally came to court and was thrown out almost immediately. but in the meantime, this young man, who had gone to greece celebrating his a-level exams, had lost three years of his life, 11 months of them spent in one of the most unpleasant prisons in europe. how do you give that back to a boy of that age? we complain about the length of detention – there was a great row in britain about 42 days being too long. he was three years without the case so much as coming to trial. my country’s greatest gift to the human race, our supreme export, was the concept of the rule of law and habeas corpus and the freedom of the individual and all of the things that go with the conception of the law being above the government rather than a projection of the wishes of the state. this is not some abstract issue of sovereignty: this is about the law being a protector of the individual and not an instrument of the government.
madam president, of course the explosion that everyone is expecting now is a monetary one. journalists and observers love to portray things in dramatic terms, so we are given a choice between solving the euro crisis or some blast that will explode it. there is, of course, a third – and, it seems to me, likelier – option, which is that we just carry on getting gradually poorer, as most of our constituents have been doing these past two or three years. we are condemning people to wretchedness and squalor and emigration because we are not allowing countries to price their way back into the market and adjust their monetary policy to their own needs. the real explosion that we risk is not one of the financial system but one of our democratic system, when people find that it does not matter how they vote because the decisions that most tangibly impact their lives come from remote brussels institutions. that might be an explosion which is not controllable but which blasts the entire european system of representative government to sparks and splinters.
madam president, i had some grave concerns about the original proposals contained in these reports. the commission’s original plans were going to require off-road farm bikes used in the agricultural industry and the forestry industry to be built to the same specification as on-road bicycles or quads, as you would call them. that would have had disastrous consequences for the safety and the stability of farm quads. they would be less stable on steep ground, more likely to tip over and indeed they would be unable to perform the day-to-day functions which are necessary when used by farmers and indeed foresters. it would also have dramatically increased the costs of the bikes. common sense has prevailed, though, and off-road bikes will now be built to a separate specification from on-road bikes, recognising that they are used in dramatically different types of terrain. these changes reflect parliament’s willingness to listen to and act on the genuine concerns of our citizens about the contents of the proposals and rather than turning a deaf ear to them, they have amended them and that is why i voted for them today.
madam president, on a point of order, i spoke to you before the beginning of the explanations of vote and you agreed to call me on the ilchev report because it was not under rule 138 on the agenda. i requested an explanation of vote and then i was told it was under rule 138 and you ruled that i could speak, and now you have passed it by.
madam president, children with their natural curiosity and superior technological skills are stumbling across or seeking out pornographic material on the internet. violent and degrading material is easily available and this is having disturbing consequences on our children. use by children of social networking sites is also making it easier for sexual predators to groom youngsters. when i worked on legislation on sexual exploitation of children i was pleased to support measures aimed specifically at preventing grooming. i also supported plans to block access to sites which contained child abuse images. now, usually i am allergic to eu legislation, but the internet has no borders. as such i am able to support most of the suggestions included in this report. i especially support encouraging internet service providers to promote self-regulation, including codes of conduct for identifying and deleting illegal content. isps should also help parents by providing network filters and make it easier for the filters to be employed. i am pleased to have supported this report.
madam president, the age of the internet has brought us many opportunities, but also many dangers, especially for our children. i would like to state my support for cooperation between member states when taking action on the protection of minors using audiovisual and online services. it is an area i feel passionate about and where i feel there is a vast potential to expand cooperation and work towards more effective and coordinated measures to protect children in the digital world. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs costa, on her own-initiative report and welcome her recommendations. we need collaboration at a european level and between public institutions and internet service providers in order to protect minors using the internet. additional technological options, for example the blocking of access by children to harmful content, as well as the promotion of self-regulation by service providers, are also to be welcomed. finally, media education for minors is an initiative which i fully support, giving minors themselves the tools to navigate their way around these services safely. we must protect our children online.
madam president, this report considers the only genuine economic and monetary union to be a federal one. i voted against this report because i believe it will deprive national parliaments of their rightful say in the budget of their own country. already we have seen brussels trying to control national purse strings as the eu tries to claw its way out of the economic misery, but – tighter control by an eu treasury over member states’ budgets? seriously? not a good idea. we have seen how the stability pact has failed to prevent the implosion of the euro. we must also resist proposals for the eu budget to be funded from its own resources, including a financial transaction tax. again, not a good idea. if the eurozone chooses to go ahead with some form of banking union, i hope it will ignore the recommendations of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which forms a valuable instrument in scots law and will give added certainty to scottish businesses. scotland benefits greatly from being part of the eu and will be able to contribute even more when we are an independent member state.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the recast regulation irons out some of the difficulties encountered over the last decade in this field, and the abolition of exequatur for all civil and commercial judgments is a significant step forward in terms of access to justice for citizens and businesses.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. it seeks to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks by limiting access by the general public to, and reporting suspicious transactions of, widely and legitimately used substances (and mixtures thereof) which in high concentrations can also be used to manufacture explosives. the proposal is directed at wholesalers, retailers and member states. chemical manufacturers already have controls and voluntary reporting codes in place for weapon and drug precursors, for instance, and should not be materially affected by these proposals. the tonnages involved are small compared to the total amounts sold. there are no concerns with respect to worker health or environmental exposure. success will depend upon actions by competent authorities with respect to the gathering and sharing of relevant information.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. this regulation, as proposed by the commission, provides, in connection with the accession of croatia, for a derogation to the general rules on the recruitment of european union staff. this is necessary because the rules on recruitment contained in the staff regulations for officials provide that recruitment must be open to all european union citizens, regardless of nationality.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the need for increased safety in offshore oil and gas exploitation has been dramatically highlighted by recent accidents, most notably by the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore activities in the mediterranean are likely to increase due to the discovery of new reserves of fossil fuel, and an accident of this kind could have immediate large-scale effects on a semi-closed sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its economy and its fragile ecosystems, and undermining the efforts made by eu mediterranean coastal member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status in their marine waters, as required by the marine strategy framework directive. a policy of sustainable governance of oil and gas offshore activities is clearly needed.
in writing. − it is vital for us in the european union to develop our plentiful resources, particularly in straitened times, but we must do so safely, sustainably, and with the minimum of harm to our environment. the area around the mediterranean is not only one of the most beautiful regions of the world, but the sea represents a financial and cultural centre for millions of people. if we allow it to become polluted, or worse, from the very necessary efforts to boost oil and gas extraction, then we put at risk not only the way of life of myriad cultures, but the development of some of the poorest parts of europe. this is one area where the eu really can make a difference in the southern neighbourhood: our partners in north africa share a sea as well as the aspirations that go with it, and we must use the offshore protocol to develop a truly coordinated approach to regulation, monitoring and inspection which aims not only to profit the region, but also to protect it.
in writing. − the fishing industry is a vital part of greenland's economy and the money they receive from the eu for fishing rights is not inconsiderable. unlike many of the eu external fishing arrangements, the agreement with greenland is truly beneficial to both sides. i accordingly voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report. this new protocol provides for an eu financial contribution of eur 17.85 million per year to greenland in return for fishing rights.
in writing. − i welcome this report which aims to ease the requirements for citizens of the union residing in an eu state of which they are not nationals to stand as a candidate in the election of the european parliament.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive offers vital protection to citizens across europe. some of the problems that have emerged have related not to the substance of the directive but rather to its transposition and enforcement. i therefore believe that this report calls for the correct things.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive has two objectives: guaranteeing a high level of consumer protection and strengthening the internal market in cross-border consumer credit. there is no doubt that the definitive harmonisation of some key aspects of credit law has significantly raised the level of consumer protection in europe. the increase in cross-border take-up of consumer credit would seem to have been insignificant, however. this may be because only a very few financial institutions offer cross-border consumer credit and because the market as a whole has been in decline in recent years, as a result of the financial crisis. what is more, obstacles to the take-up of cross-border consumer credit are more likely to be linked to the language barrier or to the lack of any personal relationship with the financial institution concerned than to legal considerations. the commission should now review the way the directive has been transposed and urge the member states to apply it correctly. stakeholders should then be given time to get used to the new rules and gain experience of the way they are applied. thereafter a detailed assessment should be carried out of the legal and practical impact of the directive and, on that basis, consideration given to what, if any, amendments are required.
in writing. − this report rightly states that social investments should ‘be treated not only as spending but primarily as investments’. i wholeheartedly agree with those sentiments and am proud to represent a party which remains committed to such investments. the people of scotland unfortunately must endure a government at westminster committed to stopping these investments – and a labour opposition in scotland intent on destroying the social contract with the people of the country.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘calls on member states and the commission to take all possible measures to improve education systems at all levels by: putting strong emphasis on early childhood development strategy; creating an inclusive school climate; preventing early-school-leaving; improving secondary education and introducing guidance and counselling, providing better conditions for young people to successfully access tertiary education or to gain direct access to the job market; developing instruments aimed at better anticipating future skills needs and at strengthening cooperation between educational institutions, business and employment services; improving recognition of professional qualification as well as developing national qualifications frameworks’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this timely report, which recognises that the austerity measures favoured by so many member states must also be complemented by investment in social and employment schemes. it is vitally important to address and alleviate rising unemployment and increasing poverty, problems now endemic across the eu. i also welcome the emphasis that this report places on the need to tackle youth unemployment in particular, calling on member states to create sustainable jobs whilst maintaining a balance between job security and flexibility in the labour market. this report urges eu countries to prioritise social investment strategies as well as fiscal consolidation as a response to the financial crisis, a stance i fully support.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i do not support its call to increase significantly eu funding for promotional measures for agricultural products. i am also strongly against the promotion of alcohol through eu funds.
in writing. − the resale right directive was designed to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and plastic works of art share in the economic success of their creations, and, on the other hand, to harmonise the application of the resale right in the eu. in its report on the implementation and effect of this directive, the commission concluded that no clear patterns could be established to link the loss of eu share in the global market for modern and contemporary art with the harmonisation of provisions relating to the application of the resale right in the eu on 1 january 2006. nor could any clear patterns currently be established that would indicate systematic trade diversion within the eu away from those member states which introduced the right for living artists in 2006. the rapporteur notes that the art market was valued at usd 10 billion in 2010 and almost usd 12 billion in 2012. the information in the commission report and market data suggest that the resale right has no negative impact on the location of the art market or its turnover.
in writing. − i welcome this directive and have voted in favour of the report as i believe that it is fair to allow living artists to receive a share of the resale value of their work. in this way it recognises the contribution that the artist has made to cultural values. however, while supporting this directive i would also note caution and expect the commission to recognise that there is still work to be done on this front. such a directive will continue to negatively affect particularly small business in europe, for example, small specialist auction houses, unless the commission does more work to look at the costs and bureaucratic burdens placed on small dealers. the commission should also actively encourage third countries to introduce resale rights. otherwise we could see a mass exodus to outside markets where such levies do not apply. i welcome the call in this report for an assessment of the impacts of this directive and would hope that the commission addresses any lack of global competitiveness arising from this. i look forward to working with the rapporteur on ensuring that the directive does not negatively affect european business.
in writing. − i welcome the aim of the report, which is to ensure a clear, level rule across committees for transparency in forming the negotiating mandate in the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − tá leagan gaeilge de shuíomh gréasáin na parlaiminte seo de dhíth anois. for almost six years this parliament has breached the principle of non-discrimination, by producing its website in 22 of the 23 official eu languages, but not in irish. this blatant discrimination against the marginalised cannot be justified. the irish language derogation does not justify it - it concerns legislation, and not communication with the public. nor is there any shortage of qualified translators. for almost two years the ep has in fact been defying council regulation (eu) no 1257/2010, which says clearly, ‘the institutions will continue to take steps to improve access to information in irish on the activities of the union.’ the passing of this report on the recording of interventions in plenary should at least ensure that speeches made in irish will remain on the website in irish and not be removed as soon as they are translated into english; a small but important step. a formal complaint of language discrimination against the ep has now been lodged with the european ombudsman. tá sé thar am go mbeadh cothrom na féinne againn anseo.
in writing. − i voted for this report as a sensible way of reducing costs in parliament. i agree with the rapporteur, who considers that providing translation of verbatim reports into one language only would create a hierarchy among the official languages of the european union and thus put into question the principle of multilingualism. it is therefore proposed to draw up the cre solely as a multilingual document in which all contributions appear only in their original language, without any translation being automatically provided. drawing up verbatim reports solely in their original language will result in greater budget and resource savings and at the same time uphold the principle of multilingualism.
in writing. − mr ilchev’s timely amendment manages to strike the right balance between an inclusive multilingual parliament, and the need to be realistic in our attitude both to budgets and language policy. one of the fundamental assets of the european union is its diversity of peoples, cultures and languages, but parliament cannot sustain a political tower of babel – not least one demanding over eur 1 billion in annual translation costs. i appreciate that, as an english speaker, i have a natural advantage in this house, but parliament cannot allow boundless language proliferation at vast expense to european taxpayers. the un, with 193 members, manages very well with six official languages, and the council of europe, with 47 members, operates with just two languages. i therefore welcome the compromise that allows citizens to listen to parliamentary speeches in their own languages, but which limits a further written translation service that we simply cannot afford.
in writing. − as rapporteur on parliament’s budget i welcome the report from the committee on constitutional affairs which puts forward effective ways of working within a more restrictive budget for interpretation and translation. i strongly believe that members should have the ability to work effectively in their own language. however, scope for savings in this area has been identified and we can see from this report the high cost for translation of verbatim transcripts, which stands at over eur 8.6 million per year. i support calls for a ‘rainbow issue’ of proceedings, which would mean that a speech would only be transcribed in the language in which it is delivered. i also support the measure giving members the right to request the translation of any transcript into their own language and am happy that these translations will be fast-tracked. i fully support this report and believe that it has found the right balance between making savings in parliament’s budget and not jeopardising the work of members.
in writing. − i am pleased that parliament has adopted this report which will help reduce the budget of its translation services. parliament needs to make cuts as our citizens face austerity following the financial crisis. but we are simply not cutting the budget hard enough. in fact parliament is looking for increases in its information budget. parliament is wasting over eur 100 million on follies such as the house of european history. it has also asked for a 9 % increase in the budget of the so-called ‘parlamentarium’. this visitors centre has been plagued with budget overspends and schedule overruns. now that it is finally open, it was described by a visitor on tripadvisor as being ‘impersonal’, ‘confusing’ and leaving the visitor ‘not having learned anything new’. so why are we increasing its budget? transparency is important, but do our citizens really need 34 information offices, which employ over 200 personnel at a cost of eur 50 million a year? and finally, the elephant in the room – strasbourg. if we were to scrap strasbourg we would save over eur 200 million annually. by refusing to make these necessary cuts, parliament will certainly lose the confidence of its citizens.
in writing. − the commission's original proposal was deeply concerning to the biker community and i was inundated with letters and emails on this subject. the final agreement is a vast improvement and the biker lobby should be congratulated on their effective campaign. many of the blanks in the legislation have still to be filled in - and so motorcyclists will continue to play an important role in shaping the law.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. over 30 million vehicles labelled as l-category (covering mopeds, two-or-three-wheeled motorcycles, quad bikes and mini-cars) circulate around europe and their drivers face a much higher risk of fatal or serious injuries than drivers of cars or trucks. raising safety standards is the main concern. in 2007 motorcycles and similar vehicles accounted for only 2 % of the distance travelled but 16 % of road deaths in the eu. even one death on the roads is already too many. this is why i supported the introduction of mandatory anti-lock brake systems (abs) on all new motorcycles, including motorcycles up to 50 cc. the industry will now have to include abs on all new motorcycles over 125 cc – in 2016 (for new types of vehicles) and 2017 (for existing types of vehicles). for motorcycles between 50 cc and 125 cc, manufacturers can choose between abs and combined breaking system (cbs). but this new regulation brings more legal clarity at last because it simplifies the 15 directives which currently relate to these types of vehicles and it establishes more subcategories within category l.
in writing. − i supported this legislation, which will simplify the rules governing motorcycles and other two- and three-wheeled vehicles across the eu. the regulation also imposes higher safety standards on such vehicles, and this was the most important element for labour meps as currently a disproportionately high number of road deaths involve motorcyclists. emission reduction measures included in the legislation should result in more efficient and cleaner vehicles; this is not only good for consumers, but good for the environment as well.
in writing. − i supported this report, the objective of which is to lay down harmonised rules on the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market while at the same time providing for a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection. the proposed regulation significantly simplifies the existing type-approval legislation by replacing 24 base directives (and around 35 related amending directives). the new regulation and its implementing and delegated acts are meant to carry over the requirements laid down in the existing legislation without reducing the current level of protection. i welcome the commission’s proposal as it contributes to the competitiveness of the industry by simplifying the existing type-approval legislation. in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, i believe that it is appropriate to introduce a union approval procedure for all categories of vehicles, while at the same time taking due account of cost-benefit considerations, with special attention being given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − technology can be hugely disruptive but also offers new opportunities. just as the audiovisual and media market has been disrupted by digital technology we now see new ways of banking and payments. who would have thought that africa would become the leading continent in the nascent mobile payments market? when i was in uganda a few years ago, my taxi driver explained that mobile phone companies in africa will lift more people out of poverty than our patronising large white western ngos. we need to make sure that digital payments market thrives here in the eu. i welcome the commission identifying several barriers which prevent the european payment market from working as efficiently and openly as possible. we all realise the benefits of promoting and increasing the card, internet and mobile payments to offer consumers and businesses an opportunity to have access to more convenient, secure, fast, variable, flexible and cost-effective payment methods. i often wish that instead of focusing on building a european project that the eu would focus more on creating a true single market and creating and allowing technology companies across the eu to flourish to build a truly digital and innovative single market.
in writing. − i supported this report. the card, internet and mobile payment markets are still fragmented in the eu area. there are significant differences regarding the use of card payments between the member states. the process of creating single european payment area (sepa) facilitates the bank transfers in 32 european countries, and as of 2014 all the participating countries should have implemented the common sepa standards. the rapporteur thinks that as sepa will remove the gap between domestic and cross-border payments, the goal in integrating card payment market should be making cross-border payments as convenient as payments at a national level. more cross-border players in this field are welcome. the green paper introduces several key factors in enhancing the integration of payments and stimulating competitiveness of the payment schemes
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the harmonisation of card payment systems in order to facilitate cheaper and safer methods of paying for goods. the current system means that electronic payment structures across member states are too disparate and act as an obstacle to better market integration in the eu. as the most frequently used electronic method to make retail payments, it is imperative that the current card payment system be harmonised in order to ensure a higher level of consumer protection. i welcome the suggestions set out in this report, which are a useful first step in developing an integrated european card, internet and mobile payment system across the eu. it is also important, however, for the commission to ensure that vulnerable consumers are not excluded in any new payment systems proposed in the future.
in writing. − i supported this report and the commission green paper as a good first step in developing an integrated card, internet and mobile payment system across the eu, which should be based on high level of consumer protection. consumer confidence is a key condition to the development of card and internet payment and for this there must be greater transparency in the pricing system for card payment services, with consideration given to eu-wide restrictions on these. i would, however, like to see the commission ensure vulnerable consumers will not be excluded from new payment systems.
in writing. − five years after the run on northern rock, we have still not tackled the main problem, which is to avoid banks being bailed out with taxpayers’ money again. we also do need to look at the so-called shadow banking sector in detail which covers a range of financial activities which should be subject to proportionate regulation where appropriate and necessary. while shadow banking in many ways complements the regular banking sector, it is widely recognised that there are many risks that could potentially be systemically relevant. that is why we have called for a number of proposals, subject to international recommendations, to tackle the linkages and processes that could prove dangerous to the financial services sector. i remain concerned about the suggestions on money market funds, and think that more debate is necessary, but on topics such as securitisation, i am pleased with the outcome of the debate. we need to make sure that sufficient sums of money are put aside to cover potential losses. we shall now look to the commission to develop its thinking in tandem with the fsb's proposals and i hope that any further proposals are genuinely necessary, impact assessed and subject to cost benefit analyses
in writing. − i voted for this report which supports the creation and management, possibly by the ecb, of a central eu database on euro repo transactions database, to be fed by infrastructures and custodian banks to the extent that they internalise repo settlement in their own books; believes, however, that such a database should cover transactions in all currency denominations in order for supervisors to have a full picture and understanding of the global repo market; calls on the commission to proceed to the rapid adoption (in early 2013) of a coherent approach for central data collection, identifying data gaps and combining efforts by existing initiatives from other bodies and national authorities, in particular the trade repositories put in place by emir; invites the commission to submit a report (by mid-2013) covering, but not limited to, the required institutional set-up (e.g. ecb, esrb, an independent central registry), the content and frequency of data surveys, in particular on euro repo transactions and financial risk transfers, and the level of required resources.
in writing. − this is a non-legislative report, which represents parliament’s response to the commission’s green paper on shadow banking. shadow banking, such as hedge funds and trading houses, is currently outside the scope of eu financial regulation. nevertheless, it is seen as being a contributory factor in the economic crisis as, through their connection with regular banks, shadow banks can allow areas of systemic risk to develop without being noticed or monitored. i supported this report as it proposes measures for reducing the systemic risk posed by shadow banking, by extending regulation to cover shadow banks, while not seeking to lessen the benefits such banks bring to the real economy.
in writing. − we are of the opinion that children should be protected and crime should be tackled through law enforcement. however, the report’s focus on government campaigns and the extension of enforcement to isps and other self-regulating mechanisms is setting the wrong priorities and risks privatising responsibilities that lie in the hands of states, while diminishing the role of parents in their children’s education. measures included in the report furthermore demonstrate an unwarranted bias towards the perceived dangers of the internet, limiting the opportunities for education and innovation. rather, we prefer to strengthen the youth’s resilience and independence. efforts should be directed at educating children and youth, with the help of their parents and teachers, to take ownership of their actions on the web and to develop e-skills.
in writing. − this report deals with important issues. given the absence of real borders in the digital world, tackling such things as child pornography can be best achieved through eu and international cooperation. the eu has already taken initiatives in this area and the uk has at times opted in. should the uk subsequently opt to leave all the justice and home affairs legislation into which it has currently opted, that cross-border cooperation will be lost. children's safety should not be endangered in order to satisfy the xenophobic right of the uk tory party.
in writing. − i voted for this report which stresses that digital technology is an important learning tool for citizenship, facilitating the participation of many citizens living in peripheral areas and especially of young audiences, allowing them to fully benefit from freedom of expression and online communication.
in writing. − today’s generation of young europeans grow up in a world where the internet is a central part of their daily lives. it is therefore vitally important that frameworks are put in place which protect children from the more sinister aspects of the online world. this report, which has my full support, recommends that education in new media should be incorporated into formal and informal education programmes and extended to parents as well as children, so that they can better understand the benefits and the dangers of the internet during childhood. children are particularly vulnerable to cyber bullying, online grooming and harassment, so i agree with this report’s proposals that eu members states should increase their efforts to combat the diffusion of illegal content and encourage the harmonisation of their strategies for limiting online risks.
in writing. − i welcome the call in this report for eu public procurement rules that apply the principle of the "most economically advantageous tender (meat)" rather than the principle of "lowest cost" when contracting service provision out.
in writing. − social enterprises make a huge contribution to the eu economy and i fully support this initiative, which looks at fostering their development. the proposals will establish a european financial instrument to lever funding for start-up enterprises and contribute towards developing and expanding established enterprises. with a particular focus on measures to promote social entrepreneurship for young and disadvantaged people, the social business initiative is a positive step towards encouraging the creation of innovative social enterprises.
in writing. − while my country britain was absolutely correct not to join the eurozone, we also want the current mess sorted out since many british companies need thriving eu markets. there are two choices. either go for full fiscal and political union or allow the eurozone to shrink by letting the weaker member states leave. letting greece leave the eurozone is still too big a psychological blow for the political elites who see the euro as an essential building block towards the european project of a federal republic of europe. that’s why eurozone leaders are continuing to forge an ‘ever closer union’. having transformed their economy by going through painful economic reform, my german friends tell me they resent subsidising what they see as the less productive countries but a sustainable monetary union requires fiscal transfers from taxpayers in richer countries to governments in less productive countries. the solution may come from the ecb printing money which debases the euro but allows banks to buy sovereign debt and when they go bust doing so, they will be bailed out by the esm. who funds the esm? germany, the netherlands and finland and ‘hey presto’ we have fiscal transfers by the back door!
in writing. − i voted for this report which is of the opinion that a ‘genuine emu’ cannot be limited to a system of rules but requires an increased budgetary capacity based on specific own-resources (including an ftt) which should, in the framework of the eu budget, support growth and social cohesion addressing imbalances, structural divergences and financial emergencies which are directly connected to the monetary union, without undermining its traditional functions to finance common policies.
in writing. − labour meps voted for this report in solidarity and with the understanding that action needs to be taken within the eurozone to bring countries fiscally closer. whilst we are not in favour of a two-speed europe we believe we should not vote against further fiscal integration for countries in the eurozone or sign up to the fiscal pact. in that regard it should be clear that the actions outlined in this report are not applicable to the united kingdom and other countries outside of the eurozone or signed up to the fiscal pact.
in writing. − i welcome this report. i am convinced that through the quality of its work, the jpa has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation
in writing. − i was not able to vote for this report, but not because i want less dialogue between the eu and the acp countries. on the contrary, i welcome the scrutiny of local parliaments over eu development assistance to acp countries and the work that the acp-eu joint assembly does to promote human rights and democracy. however, the main problem with the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is the eye-watering cost of its meetings. earlier this year, it was revealed by a british newspaper that the joint assembly’s meetings in kinshasa and tenerife had been parliament’s most expensive trips by parliamentary delegations in 2010. over eur 1 million was spent on the meeting in kinshasa. for 50 meps this worked out at over eur 20 000 per head. the meeting in tenerife cost over eur 700 000 with a per head price tag of over eur 10 000. if the joint assembly is to remain a relevant player in relations between the eu and the acp it needs to lose its reputation for political tourism. parliament needs to make meaningful cuts to its budget. if we do not cut the budget of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly we are letting down citizens both at home and abroad.
blue-card question to catherine grèze. – madam president, i also raised my blue card during the speech by mrs grèze. i simply want to ask mrs grèze what on earth the exploitation of shale gas reserves in europe has to do with the water supplies in developing nations. do you know that the exploitation of shale gas takes place usually about 2 000 metres below ground level? the aquifer which you say is going to be destroyed is only a few metres below ground level. how are the two connected? this is not sensible.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, both of the european commissioners have highlighted that today there is a lot of uncertainty about shale gas in europe, a lot of unanswered questions. we do not know how many commercially exploitable reserves there are inside the european union. we do not know about the environmental constraints and whether or not our current law covers shale gas. that is why if we look at the situation today only two countries in the eu are having exploratory drilling for shale for fracking – the uk and poland – and in the uk there is a temporary moratorium because there was seismic activity in the first area where there was fracking. we have an opportunity as european legislators to make sure that if any country chooses to go ahead and exploit shale gas, we have in place proper environmental controls. when we had the hearing in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, one lesson we learnt from our american counterparts and legislators was not to have to play catch-up after shale gas extraction has started. a lot of the problems in the us were because at the beginning there were no environmental laws to protect the water table. yes, there are problems with water contamination in the united states; they are getting them under control now, but there were problems. we have this opportunity, this space, and i hope we will take that space and support the report of the environment committee, which is a very balanced report on shale gas, and that is why it got a big majority in committee. it puts to one side the question of a moratorium and i know that an amendment has been tabled about this, because we all know that the decision on whether or not to frack is not a decision we will have to take: it is one that national parliamentarians will have to take. i hope that whatever happens on that amendment tomorrow, colleagues in this house will support the environment committee’s report. we see unity today from the european commission on fracking and i hope that this parliament can show similar unity.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank mrs tzavela for working very openly with the shadows on this controversial report. as linda mcavan has just said, it falls to member states to decide whether they wish to go forward with exploiting shale gas deposits on their territories, but that exploitation must be in full compliance with eu environmental legislation. the commission needs to be very vigilant and i welcome the commissioner’s statement about commission action in the forthcoming work programme. we need a tightening of legislation with regard to mandatory environmental impact assessments, for example, and the separation of the licensing and authorisation processes, as in offshore drilling. but shale gas poses a threat that goes much wider than the local environment. for a start, we do not know exactly what its footprint is in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, including the fugitive methane emissions which tend to occur during fracking. the studies so far about whether it is better than coal, worse than coal, better than gas, worse than other gases, are contradictory, so the research currently being undertaken by the joint research centre is crucially important. i would urge the commission to ask for it to be completed as soon as possible. finally, and most importantly, burning gas unabated without capturing the co2 is simply not compatible with tackling climate change and the path to decarbonisation. it does not matter how much shale gas lies beneath the soil of europe. if we care about climate change, we need to leave it in the ground. it will not go off. it does not have a sell-by date. its time may come in the future, thanks to ccs, but, for today, the only climate-friendly way of achieving energy security in europe is to exploit renewable energy sources, not shale gas. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – as we say colloquially in english, two wrongs do not make a right. it is also of concern that methane is lost in the pipelines from russia, but as we start this new process of extracting shale gas in some countries, we need to get the environmental legislation right and clearly it is the case that methane does escape. it has been a cause of pollution locally. what has not been taken into account yet is how much that worsens the greenhouse gas effect when we exploit shale gas, and it is precisely because i do not know – nobody knows – at the moment exactly how much that we need the research from the joint research council to look into this and to give us some figures we can rely on.
madam president, the fracking debate is full of deceit by those who stand to profit from shale gas or who see it as a weapon in neocon hostility to russia. we are told that most fracking in the usa is by small and medium-sized enterprises, yet few real smes have the capital or technology for fracking. what looked like smes are in fact limited liability fronts for giant corporations. they exist solely to spare the parent companies the huge cost of eventual clean-up operations, which will therefore fall on the taxpayers. the game is simple: loot, pollute and scoot. claims of massive job creation are lies too. the public policy institute of new york state claimed that 500 new wells per year would produce 62 000 jobs, yet a review by food and water watch showed that the true figure is fewer than 7 000, scarcely one tenth of the promised boom. in every part of the usa where shale gas is exploited, house prices crash by 25%, with environmental devastation from hundreds of platforms and huge, poisoned slurry ponds. the longer-term threat to water supplies could be even more costly. gas fracking is short-termist, boom-and-bust exploitation. yes, it produces energy, but so would burning all our forests. it makes no sense except to lobbyists and politicians in the pay of the companies doing the looting. the answer to the energy crunch is not short-term fracking but long-term, safe, sustainable nuclear power and electricity- and hydrogen-fuelled transport systems. that is the energy economy of the future.
blue-card question. – mrs lepage said that shale gas is incompatible with reducing greenhouse gas emissions. is she aware of the fact that in the past five years in america, where they have been exploiting shale gas successfully, us emissions are down 450 million tonnes while we in europe, pursuing a green agenda, have seen our emissions actually rise?
mr president, on the face of it, and listening to this debate, i must say that shale gas is probably the most exciting development in the sphere of energy since the discovery of north sea oil. it will benefit my own region in particular because we in the north west of england are sitting on 4.6 trillion cubic feet of shale, which means that we have the largest shale reserves in europe. this could provide energy for the uk for up to 50 years and create tens of thousands of jobs in the north west of england. we also know from evidence in the united states that shale gas can reduce energy prices by up to 30%, which would be a welcome break for hard-working people in the uk in a time of recession. lastly, shale gas can also provide us with much-needed energy security, because we can become more self-sufficient and not so reliant on the middle east and russia for our energy supply. shale gas would bring more jobs, cheaper energy prices and energy security. to me it seems obvious that shale must form a central part of any of our future energy policies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – let us not call them earthquakes because they are not. they are tiny tremors, so let us have none of this green nonsense trying to blow things up and create scare stories. in may this year a government-appointed panel said that fracking is safe in the uk and we can move ahead with stricter legislation. in july the royal society and the royal academy of engineers also said that it will not contaminate water supplies, so there is an answer straight to your question. let us not get caught up in green scare stories, because you have driven this debate on man-made climate change for too long with these scare stories and your green agenda.
mr president, i cannot recall any presiding officer who has ever ignored the timetable quite so effectively, but maybe that is the reason why we are having such a lively debate. my country, great britain, was the world’s first industrial nation. to a significant extent, that was built on our exploitation of a natural resource – coal. we had coal mines everywhere in my part of the world. i look now to reducing our co2 emissions and going for a non-carbon future, but throughout the 21st century we are going to be burning gas, to a greater or lesser extent. i would like at least to see that gas coming from within my own country, if that is possible, rather than bringing it in from the middle east. but of course there are risks and uncertainties associated with the development of shale gas. one that has been touched upon is the size of the potential seismic activity. in lancashire, where there has been some exploratory drilling, blackpool tower has shaken. but i am also told when i look at the reports that actually the seismic activity is minimal compared to, say, coal mining. there are other issues: the environmental concerns above all about water, both the injection into and the discharge of water, and the whole question of course-of-lifecycle analysis and the co2 effects. i hope that the commission will address all of these things when it comes forward with this report and i welcome that. you can see this either as an opportunity or a threat. on the whole, i regard the development of shale gas as an opportunity, but please, environmentally at least, let us get it right.
mr president, i urge member states not to authorise any new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu. it is clear from past experience in countries such as america and from studies that fracturing does pose unacceptable risks to the environment, to public health and to local constituents. this comes at a time when really we should instead be investing in renewables such as wave and wind, of which we have a lot in ireland. research shows and governments have had to admit, like the government in poland, that companies and governments almost always nearly overestimate shale gas deposits in order to support their actions. notwithstanding the environmental impact caused by emissions created by fracturing, the considerable amount of constituency concern is entirely understandable given the very real risk posed by fracking to both agriculture and tourism in places of beauty like fermanagh. so these two sectors are vitally important to the irish economy and given its current fragile state it is absolutely baffling that corporate interest should outweigh the interests of the citizen.
mr president, we have heard in this debate today how the greens are against nuclear power because of a 9.2 richter scale earthquake in japan and consequent tsunami; they are against shale gas because of a 1.2 richter scale earthquake in blackpool which is about the same you would get if you slam a door hard, and instead they are in favour of the green agenda which is covering my country, scotland, with gigantic industrial wind turbines, driving over a million scots into actual fuel poverty, wrecking the countryside and not reducing co2 emissions by a single gram. now we know in america from the full exploitation of shale gas that they have dramatically reduced their emissions. they have driven down the cost of gas by 30 % and i can see clearly now why the greens are against this. because if we exploit our massive shale gas reserves in europe, no-one will ever again build another wind turbine and that would run right against green philosophy.
mr president, america’s industrial competitiveness has been transformed by shale gas. america is now very close to self-sufficiency in energy and, incidentally, is likely to be the world’s largest oil producer by 2020. we were told that fossil fuels would become scarcer and more expensive. what we are finding is that they are becoming more abundant and are likely, in time, to become cheaper. yet we in europe have turned our back on fossil fuels and gone instead for renewables, which are hopelessly expensive and unreliable. we are undermining our industrial competitiveness. we are driving energy-intensive businesses out of europe entirely, and they are taking their jobs and investment with them. we are driving our pensioners into fuel poverty. we are mortgaging our children and bankrupting our grandchildren. our energy policy is sheer lunacy and must be abandoned. european energy policy is yet another reason why my country would be better off out of the european union.
mr president, meeting the growing demand for energy is a major dilemma facing policymakers and governments around the world. long-term strategic decisions may need to be taken to secure energy supply, ensure sustainability and keep costs to consumers at reasonable levels. while we have discussed biofuels and renewables at length, shale gas reserves are now on the agenda. the exploration of shale gas reserves may provide another possible solution to the energy challenges which we face. onshore and offshore reserves of shale gas have been identified as being safe in the united kingdom, including in my own region of northern ireland. while i am aware that this is a controversial issue, i believe we must strip away emotive arguments and look at the issue in an open and transparent way by concentrating on the facts. we must assess the impact of extraction and possible benefits for energy security, energy prices and employment alongside the possible environmental and safety concerns, human and animal health implications and the impact on tourism. we require a balanced approach.
mr president, of course we need to reduce our dangerous levels of energy dependence on russia, but the extraction of shale gas requires millions of litres of water and chemicals, it threatens already scarce water supplies with contamination and it risks geological fracturing which can lead to earthquakes such as those we saw in blackpool in the united kingdom. i welcome the sonik and tzavela reports, but i have in my constituency an area of outstanding natural beauty, the mendip hills, where there are plans to exploit shale gas. this is simply not needed. we have green, clean energy everywhere. while we will, in some countries, to some extent, no doubt develop shale gas, we can invest now in alternative technologies that can provide for almost all of our energy needs.
blue-card answer. – mr president, the honourable gentleman is quite right to point to the fact that there are protests against all kinds of energy development. i am very much aware of that. however, i am sure the honourable gentleman would also recognise that scientists are telling us that climate change is having greater effects than they were predicting even five years ago. the more we use fossil fuels, the more we will be adding to man-made climate change, and the more we will see rising sea levels and other effects. what is essential is to cut down on the use of fossil fuels. while shale gas is cleaner in these terms than coal, it is far less clean than the kind of alternative technologies which already exist and which, with a little more investment, could be developed just as effectively to supply our energy needs. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, mr watson was talking about the dangerous chemicals used in fracking, but is he aware that those chemicals actually contain salt, soapy water and citric acid – basically washing-up liquid and lemon juice – as their major component? i would like to ask mr watson, since he mentions that the beautiful mendip hills are in his area, whether the small construction involved with shale gas exploitation would be as bad as gigantic steel industrial wind turbines, which is the alternative that he seems to be alluding to?
blue-card answer. – mr president, the honourable member may wish to run the risk of having salt, or soapy water, or citric acid in his drinking water supplies. i do not wish to run that risk or to have these things in the drinking water supplies of my constituents. i think by comparison and, indeed, by the comparison of the number of jobs – local jobs – that we can create in the construction of things like wind turbines and the long-term, cheaper energy supplies that we can develop from these – energy supplies which will never run out – then the economics suggest that shale gas is not the way forward.
in writing. – in my constituency of london gas prices are at an all-time high. fuel poverty affects almost a fifth of london households. it also contributed to 2 500 excess winter deaths in 2010/11. a british geological survey study in 2010 estimated that if uk shales were similar to those in the usa they could yield some 150 billion cubic metres of gas. shale gas could be an abundant and cheap source of energy that could help re-ignite the economy. also with carbon capture and storage technology, shale gas can be used as a low-carbon source of energy. i believe that we urgently need to begin drilling and testing to make an assessment of how much shale gas is recoverable. we are facing an energy crisis and ordinary citizens are suffering from a high cost of living. at a time of economic turmoil, we must do everything we can to reduce the burden on our constituents. i supported shale gas extraction as i believe it can be used as a tool to tackle climate change. i also hope that shale gas will ensure that londoners can stay warm in winters to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think this is about the fourth debate i have been involved in since i joined this house 13 years ago in which we have discussed problems of over-capacity in the automotive industry. from my perspective, having been in that industry for 30 years, i feel the situation we are facing is amongst the worst, because sales demand has dropped off so much and shows no sign of immediate recovery. the commission has made a very realistic assessment and has talked about the key tools that need to be put in place to help in the restructuring which many members are calling for. the key to the future for the automotive industry in europe – and we want a really strong and globally competitive automotive industry – is going to be investment in new technologies and new products. that is a core part of the 2020 proposal, but in the meantime we have to help those employees who are affected by plant closures. i have been through that where i live. we have had two major plant closures in the last ten years. we have done the things that the commissioner talked about: we have pulled local authorities together, we have used european funds and we have looked for ways to retrain and reassign people into manufacturing or service businesses in order to redevelop jobs in those economies. we have the knowledge, ladies and gentlemen; it is there for you to use. please come and talk about it. this is not a new situation, and it is essential that we deal with it in the way we are talking about if we are to have a really strong, long-term future for a crucial industry. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not sure that you were disagreeing with me. the point i was making, and i think mr andor was very realistic, is that the funding we need to put in is to help those employees affected by what are inevitable plant closures. the ford company according to their own figures – and you can check them – is going to lose eur 1.6 billion this year in europe. now mr staes was talking about the fact the he felt that the management of ford could make sacrifices and stop closing plants. i am afraid if you are losing eur 1.6 billion, colleagues, you have to do something about it. i think ford are right in restructuring production because they want to invest in new models. that is the reality of where we are. we are supporting research and development and we also need to deploy the instruments which mr andor was talking about to help people back into new jobs. that, i think, is something that we all agree upon. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr staes, the point i made was about the amount of money they are losing in europe, in their european operations. globally, ford are making profits. because of the way they have restructured their operation in the united states they are doing relatively well there. we need ford. we need strong partners in europe. we need investors in europe. that is why i made the point i did. we are not here to question their wisdom in how much they pay their chief executive globally, because ford is a global business with plants all over the world. we have to decide what should happen and what is realistic in europe. my point is that the priority is to help the people affected, and not to make criticisms about salaries which are not actually going to help solve the problem. we should be helping people and showing them that we are going to help solve their problems and that we understand the agonies of plant closures. i have been there. the factory where i started my career has now closed. i go past there regularly and i see the empty buildings. i do not like that very much, but i have to accept that this is the reality of where we are today.
mr president, i have three points. first, the commercial decisions taken by companies at this time amid car industry woes across the european union, across the world, may be something which car companies can put up with, but not the people working in them. we understand of course that there is overcapacity, maybe, but promises made are not promises to be broken easily either. i represent the area of southampton swaythling plant, which is the assembly for the ford transit van which is now to be scrapped. this will have a major impact upon that community. i also have to say that i join with my colleagues around the chamber about the transfer of funds – eur 100 million – for the ford otosan plant in turkey. perhaps we should ask some questions about this. after all, i know it is not public funds, but let us ask this question. there are certain people who have been involved in this, the commission itself offers an opinion about whether or not these funds should be transferred and so do member states. are we that naïve that we do not believe that such a neighbourhood policy where we give funds to countries just outside the eu will not eventually lead to job transfers? are we that silly that we do not actually wake up and realise this is going to occur? we really need to ask a question about what the remit of the eib is in this particular issue and get down to talking about what they should and should not be allowed to do. finally, just looking at the sight across the way from me where there are empty benches where ukip sit, who also represent my area, it tells me very well that wrapping yourself in your national flag does nothing to protect you against global crises either and it is a shame they cannot be here to join this debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, oh dear, sis ii has been hit by the curse of large it projects, especially in the field of home affairs! we are rather familiar with this in the uk, but another thing we are getting familiar with in the uk is the desire of europhobes – and we might hear from one shortly – to opt out of key eu justice and home affairs measures. what a mistake that would be! i look forward to the uk finally taking part in the schengen information system. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, not only for all his work on schengen on this particular dossier but also for his flexibility when the council proposed having a separate legal instrument to ensure the participation of the uk and ireland in the policing aspects of the sis. they cannot, of course, take part in the immigration and border control parts of the system, but i am pleased to say that the uk is keen to be involved in the policing aspects. it would have been great had this measure been ready before the london olympics as there was some concern that the fact of the uk not yet being hooked up would make it difficult to identify criminals or terrorists. i am glad to say we had a safe london olympics, but nonetheless it was a pity that the deadline was missed. the uk has been preparing for a number of years to connect to sis ii. it is responsible for 18% of the total charge to the eu budget as well as the domestic costs. the consequences of opting out of sis ii are obvious: the uk would not only lose its considerable investment but would also be unable to make use of a system that has proved a very valuable law-enforcement tool. without access to sis ii, the uk would not have access to alerts issued by other member states in order, for example, to locate and apprehend criminals who escape into the uk from one of the other schengen countries. neither could the uk issue a sis alert in order to locate a suspect who had left the uk, or a car stolen in the uk and driven abroad. while the uk authorities could still request assistance from other member states’ authorities on an ad hoc basis, this would be much slower and more cumbersome than the automated and immediate exchange through sis ii. i cannot understand those british politicians and their hangers-on who want the uk to opt out of this means to keep the british people safe and secure.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, of course sis is an international police database system but also associated with this is an eu police organisation called sirene (supplementary information request at national entry). now this is a little known organisation and it has been described by some of its operatives as top secret. it has executive powers and although britain is not yet a member of the schengen group, the uk is expected to joint sirene in 2013. it already has officers working within member states’ police forces and our german sirene officer is attached to the uk’s serious organised crime agency and his name is jan-per ruehmann. under schengen an alert placed on an sis database should be treated as a european arrest warrant. therefore within the schengen area, at least, extradition may now simply be on the basis of the hit on a database. european arrest warrants will rise sharply after we join sis in 2013. if i may conclude: the noble baroness ludford referred to a europhobe, possibly myself. i do not hate europe. i love europe; i dislike the european union and what i love most are the ancient liberties of my countrymen which i want to preserve.
mr president, let me congratulate mr coelho on a fantastic report but there are real concerns about the lack of transparency in the decision-making process. if you shut out parliament then potentially you lose our support and mistrust will only grow. also, we need to explain to our citizens the double standards that romanians and bulgarians will face when they approach the schengen border controls. i also want to say to my own government, the uk government, that it is extremely important that they remain involved in the negotiations. the uk is not a member of schengen, but it is part of sis for use for law enforcement purposes, and therefore it is crucial for the uk government to support the swift migration from sis i to sis ii. it is to the advantage of all our citizens in the eu and that includes citizens of the united kingdom. i do not support, as the coalition government does and particularly the conservative party, opt-outs from jha, including potential opt-outs from schengen. it will be hugely disadvantageous to the citizens of the united kingdom and not in our national interest. therefore, i urge all of those concerned to bring a swift resolution to this situation which has gone on for far too long.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, it is my pleasure to present this report to the house, giving details of the work of the committee on petitions in 2011. in that year, 998 petitions were declared admissible and 416 further petitions were received but declared inadmissible. i would like to recommend to colleagues a glance at the statistical analysis in the explanatory statement because that gives some interesting information about the origin of petitions and the subjects with which they are most concerned, as well as the countries the petitioners come from. there are three topics of most importance: fundamental rights, the internal market and the environment. interestingly, the country from which most complaints come is germany. the citizens of germany raise the largest number of petitions, closely followed by spain and italy, whereas the countries most frequently the subject of petitions are spain and germany – same countries, different order. i find that particularly interesting, bearing in mind my mailbag from constituents with concerns about europe, because my member state, the united kingdom, comes about sixth or seventh on the list of petitioning countries, yet, from the perception of the way people in the uk view the eu, you would expect a higher proportion. i find that interesting. i would like to pick out some of the topics that we refer to in the report. the first is the right of european citizens and residents to their legitimately acquired property, with concerns over what can happen to that property in another country. in 2011 there were 70 petitions relating to the spanish ley de costas [coastal law]. fifty-one of those were identified as coming from spanish citizens, so it is not a question of foreigners concerned about their holiday homes: here we have spanish citizens concerned about their property rights. that is quite a recurring theme. we also have to note the increasing number of petitions relating to, or raising, issues that are not within the competence of the european union. maybe we should take it as a compliment that people wish to raise issues and look to us for solutions and reparations. i would like to welcome parliament’s decision to develop a much more practical and visible petitions portal on its website, which should facilitate citizens’ access to the petitions process. i welcome – we welcome – the constructive cooperation between the committee on petitions and the services of the european ombudsman, and we reaffirm our determination to support the ombudsman in identifying maladministration, both on the part of eu institutions and affecting them. we consider the correct implementation of the waste framework directive in all member states to be of the utmost importance, and we ask member states to deal with waste-management trouble spots decisively and swiftly. we support wholeheartedly the underlying objective of the ley de costas, namely that the environment of the spanish coast should be protected from overdevelopment; and that issue continues to be a problem for spanish petitioners.
mr president, congratulations to mr chichester on this excellent report. of course, one of the most important functions of our committee is that we are the direct interface between citizens and the institutions – and in some cases the member states – on european issues. often we can do no more than encourage member states to do the right thing, and we have certainly been trying to do that in relation to spanish property petitions but it is worthwhile recalling that since 2004 not one spanish property petition has been successfully concluded. too many citizens are still the victims of expropriation and suffer the destruction of their houses on the basis of misapplied laws, whether the ley de costas or urbanisation laws. i welcome the setting-up of the working group to discuss these issues in relation to spanish property law, and i hope it will be not just a talking shop but rather a constructive body making specific and effective proposals to address the very important issue of fair compensation. regarding freedom of movement and fundamental rights, the s&d group has tabled an amendment which reflects, i believe, the core value of this house in that regard, namely the principle of equality. same-sex families, the roma and other minority groups suffer particularly from restrictions on their freedom of movement inside the eu, as we have heard on many occasions. we need to remind the member states of the obligation under directive 2004/38 to facilitate entry and residence without discrimination – and that applies to all.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, and indeed may i thank all honourable members for their very kind words. i feel i need some special friend standing close by whispering in my ear ‘remember you are only mortal’, but can i also thank all the colleagues for their cooperation in this report. it shows the good spirit in the committee, as well as a recognition of the important work that we do. i would like to say a special word of thanks to the commission; a number of colleagues have mentioned the important part that the commission plays in responding to our demands for information and action. you may not always satisfy us but we know you are always trying to do so and we thank you for that. this report – and i have to say i am most impressed at the number of members wishing to speak this evening – illustrates the importance which members attach to the petitions committee and to our work. it is a vital platform for the citizens of the eu to air their concerns. if i may just pick up one point that ms auken has raised – in slight complaint, which is very healthy; perhaps she is the person whispering in my ear – with regard to the comment about the spanish authorities: i aim to be as polite to the spanish authorities as i expect them to be to my constituents in gibraltar, but i would like to point out that the text in the report says ‘welcomes the spanish government’s announcement’, so the jury is still out on the delivery and i think that is an important distinction to make. i would like to thank everybody, and thank you very much, mr president.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask the greens’ spokesperson why we need organic farming. this is a system of farming that is 50 years out of date, that does not produce enough for us to eat and that guarantees that food will be more expensive. why do you want to inflict this on the people of europe?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for my group this debate encapsulates everything that needs to change about the eu. we reject the knee-jerk response of most of the people in this chamber that the solution to every problem that we have in member states is somehow ‘more europe’. so, increasingly, does public opinion. i say to president barroso that he and many other people in this chamber have argued that the eu budget is there to promote economic growth. we have heard a lot of glib talk from all sides of this chamber that it is an investment budget. if it was, perhaps on this side of the house we might support more bits of it, because nobody actually believes that it is an investment budget. if it is an investment budget, how come 40 per cent of it is still spent on subsidies for farmers? what about the six per cent of the budget that is for administration costs? that is not about investment for growth either. eight member states – not just the uk – wrote to president barroso saying that the eur 2 billion cost of pensions for eu civil servants in the future was unaffordable and that reform was required. you completely ignored that letter. mr barroso, how can you insist – and how can the rest of you insist – that we need more spending and more money at an eu level? five per cent of the existing budget, according to the court of auditors, is either spent illegally or irregularly – something like eur 5 billion. if that money was accounted for properly, if the commission got its expenditure controls in place, then that would take up almost all of the increase that you are all asking for. let us ask about some of the existing projects. is that all money well spent? how has doubling the number of eu agencies in the last eight years affected growth across europe? what about the new ecb building in frankfurt that cost several hundred million euros? how is that going to contribute to more growth in greece? and what about our presence here in strasbourg? that costs eur 200 million a year. how is that contributing to growth in member states? it is not, of course. nobody seriously believes that it is. mr barroso, the eu is not short of money. it just spends the money that it has very, very badly. let us be quite clear about this. to meet your demands for more spending, virtually every contributing member state is going to have to borrow that extra money. they are going to have to cut their public expenditure in order to send more money to the eu. it is completely unsustainable, it is unhelpful, and many member states will not stand for it. can you seriously, in all good conscience, ask those member states to borrow that extra money to make cuts at home so that we can all spend more money here in europe? it is time for the eu to spend the money that it already has better so that it creates growth in national economies. instead of demanding yet more money, why not take the time to go through the existing budget, line by line, asking yourself whether this item of expenditure really results in more economic growth in europe? it is not just conservatives who are saying these things, mr swoboda. even some of the socialists, i am pleased to say, are starting to see the light. the uk socialists actually want a cut in the budget, not just a freeze, which is mr cameron’s position. they voted in the house of commons for a cut. and what about your great, latter-day socialist hero, president hollande? he fought an election – remember that? – on an end to austerity. what is he saying now? he said last week that ‘we must be ready to do better by spending less’. that is the great socialist hero that you tell us is setting an example for the rest of europe to follow. let me say a word about new member states. i think that enlargement has been one of the eu’s great success stories. i think that we have to accept that it will cost more money to support those member states whose infrastructure was neglected in their communist past. that is why i believe that cohesion spending for new member states should be maintained, even within an overall freeze or a cut in the multiannual financial framework. the way to do that is through budgetary reform, so that cohesion policy is limited to helping those countries that need it most. it is ridiculous that 40 per cent of current structural and cohesion funding goes to the eu’s richest countries. countries like my own should be freed to support our poor regions ourselves without funnelling the money through the inefficient mechanism of the eu budget. i agree with the proposals put forward by our previous socialist government that cohesion policy should be repatriated to the richer member states and that money only be used to fund the poorer member states who deserve that spending. i am a bit of an optimist. i believe that a better budget – not just a bigger budget – is still achievable in the summit this week. i hope that member states, with good grace and goodwill, will sit down and agree that we need better eu spending and not just more eu spending. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i did not read ed miliband’s speech to the cbi conference. i am sure it was the usual socialist waffle. i am sure ms willmott has a copy of it there; maybe she can send it to me later. believe it or not, mr swoboda, i do not spend all my time sitting reading speeches from various socialist leaders, so i am not going to comment on what he had to say. i noticed you did not address the fundamental point that i made: the socialists in the uk are in favour of a cut in the eu budget. incidentally, the one green mp that we have in our country, a member who used to sit in their group, voted for a cut in the european budget as well. so let us hear no lectures from the greens either about increases in public expenditure in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, prime minister cameron heads to brussels tomorrow – i think, on ‘mission impossible’ – but it is a remarkable debate, in that the european union is talking about taking another trillion euros from european taxpayers, despite the fact that the accounts have not been signed off for 18 years in a row. if this was a company, the directors, in this case the commission, would all be in prison. but never mind; mr cameron will go and he will argue for a freeze, or what he means by a freeze, which is the same over-bloated budget with increases for inflation. and that actually is the very best that he can achieve in these negotiations. i have no doubt that, when he comes home, the uk taxpayer will have an even bigger bill. this will not work because the public mood in britain is now very clear: what our taxpayers are saying is that enough is enough. no longer do we wish to pay money to hungarian companies involved in projects that improve the lifestyle and living standards of dogs. and our patience has completely snapped at such cultural absurdities as the eur 400 000 given to the flying gorillas dance troupe who, using their own language of ‘rhythm, music and gibberish’ – they would fit in well here, would they not? – give performances such as the brilliant smelly foot dance, with an acoustic score that includes some ‘spectacular belching’. no, i am not making it up. i think the british public are angry at the fleets of chauffeur-driven cars, at the extravagant buildings and the never-ending travelling circus that is the european parliament. we pay gbp 53 million a day to be a member of this organisation for no benefit whatsoever. mr cameron, when you come back from this brussels summit, why do you not accept my challenge and let us have a proper full debate on britain and whether it is worth staying a member of this union or not. the last opinion polls over the weekend show that, by a majority of two to one, the british people now want us to leave this union and not to pay you a penny piece. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – there is a parliamentary tradition of mps entering assemblies but wishing to use their position in the interests of secession. we saw it with the irish nationalists in the 19th century. indeed, sinn fein run for elections to the uk parliament, and the scottish national party sit in the uk parliament. we came here because we felt that the british public were not being told what was happening in europe and how much it was costing. we have used our position here to try to get that information back to the british public. given that now, by a majority of two to one, the brits want to leave this union, i would say that we are doing a pretty good job. (applause)
mr president, there are several distinct questions apart from the obvious one of asking whether the eu should exist to spend any money at all. is it spending money on the right things and the right recipients? should it be the eu, as distinct from member states, that spends that money? there are some items on which i would be happy for no money to be spent at all: the year of the citizen or the resettlement of economic migrants posing as asylum seekers. there are other targets of expenditure which are perfectly proper, such as the support for industry or agriculture, but in these cases the function ought to be exercised by member states. how much should each country pay and how much should each receive? the eu does not advertise itself as an instrument for the redistribution of income and wealth as an end in itself, although it does precisely that, in the name of social cohesion. fellow nationals of a member state have a sufficiently shared identity to regard the pooling of resources and support as perfectly justifiable. however, the pooling of resources and support further afield is often a stimulus for resentment and even aggression – not exactly what the eu would like to produce, which is social cohesion.
mr president, what has happened with eu budget investment in the last seven years? well, we all know where we stand today. budgeting is not a field where the eu can claim success. why are we putting more money into agricultural funding that amounts, at present, to over 40 per cent of the budget? we are paying for farmers not to grow food, although the market is there. have the billions paid out in structural funds to countries like greece, portugal or spain stemmed the crisis there? no, they have not. if there was a serious will to use the budget to develop europe’s economy, a major rethink would have taken place many years ago. instead, every year we are asked to top up the same old budget lines. the eu budget for the 2014-2020 period should be reduced drastically to allow member states to decide where they want to put their taxpayers’ money. the uk should not only veto an increase, but should demand a significant reduction.
mr president, astonishingly after last week’s budget vote in westminster, we now discover that mr cameron and mr clegg are the real uk champions of larger eu spending. why? because our socialists, our scottish nationalists and our green colleagues engaged in a crass act of political cross-dressing by joining the eurosceptic ukip camp and voting for deeper cuts in that vote. can i say to them i think you need to be careful who you climb into bed with? you could be the ushers who unwittingly took the uk through the exit door. the van rompuy budget proposals take us in the right direction. they reflect the tough economic times our constituents are facing on a daily basis and they could be the basis of an agreement. however, i am deeply disappointed at mr van rompuy’s plans reduce parliament’s flexibility to manage the budget more effectively. parliament has made it crystal clear to the council that a tougher budget must go hand in hand with greater flexibility, not less, a genuine mid-term review and prioritising spending on the eu 2020 objectives. failure to deliver on that agenda will surely lead to rejection in this house.
mr president, it is obvious that we need a budget fit for purpose – a budget for the future rather than the past – and that does mean big changes. it means prioritising spending on areas strengthening innovation, jobs and growth, and ensuring we tackle the blight of unemployment across europe, particularly for our young people. we have a tragedy unfolding and we must act to give them hope for the future. we know that europe needs change – economic and political change – but it is difficult to argue for change whilst at the same time wielding phantom vetoes and smashing alliances. all that achieves is frustration and a lack of credibility, even amongst our friends, undermining our position in europe and ultimately damaging, not just those alliances, but the british interest too. is that really what david cameron wants? does he really want to relegate britain to the second division? well, if that is what he wants, he has almost achieved it; and for what? does he really think that it is in the british interest? of course he does not, but rather he is fearful of taking on those in his party who would head us to the exit door. we can only make the changes we want by being at the table, playing a full part in decision-making and working with others to achieve our aims. that, mr cameron, is what you need to do if you really want to ensure a better future for us all. finally, can i say to mr verhofstadt and mr lyon – it is a shame that mr verhofstadt has gone – that you seem to have selective memory loss. talk about hypocrisy. by all means criticise the british government but, mr lyon, do not forget to include your own party and mr clegg. you are part of the british coalition government after all.
mr president, i have just had to sit through a speech of the most breathtaking hypocrisy from the british labour leader here, glenis willmott, displaying all the cynicism, opportunism, and shoddiness which led her westminster colleagues to team up with tory europhobes and undermine david cameron’s prospects for an acceptable brussels deal. mrs willmott – i see that she has gone – has a cheek to talk about smashing alliances when her party has sabotaged the chance of rallying round a sensible call for restraint in the eu budget in the form of a freeze. whatever fine speeches mr ed miliband now makes, the fact is that british labour’s hypocrisy has made the situation of british pro-europeans infinitely worse. it is politically impossible to argue to eu citizens under pressure and losing their jobs that the eu budget should rise. so a freeze is the eu-friendly policy. but there must be more flexibility, better targeting of spending for innovation and growth, rather than farm subsidies, and a mid-term review when, hopefully, economies are doing better. we have had no help whatsoever in that from the british labour party, whatever mr swoboda tries to wriggle out of.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, my apologies to mr de grandes pascual. the answer to his question is: yes. the legal situation since 2004 has not changed as the lisbon treaty has not introduced changes in this respect. therefore, the commission can confirm its position as it was expressed in 2004 when replying to a parliamentary question and as it was recently re-stated by the president of the commission.
mr president, (inaudible) … austerity programmes do anything but aggravate a country’s problems of unemployment and debt. however, if people in various member states are suffering because of those programmes, it seems a contradiction that a supranational body of which their country is a member should be asking for an increase in spending. it seems a contradiction, that is, if the country is a net contributor. perhaps net recipients are less worried by that contradiction. britain has always been a net contributor, which is why a previous prime minister negotiated the british rebate. those who are now seeking to reduce our rebate by recalculating it want us to be even more of a net contributor. the uk might achieve a freeze on spending but still increase its net contribution. the british rebate is not money paid into a begging bowl held by a richer-than-average – and therefore undeserving – country; it represents the return of part of an excess of contributions over receipts.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what we have seen this morning from the commission and parliament is a passionate defence of high salaries, index-linked pensions, chauffeur-driven cars and a lifestyle that none of you would actually enjoy out there in the real competitive world. it is the status quo: convincing itself that it you are doing a good job despite the fact that the public increasingly doubt you. i would remind you that every time taxpayers’ money is thrown at common european projects the results are less than a success. the common fisheries policy and its environmental degradation and now of course the euro are not just an economic but a social disaster which is engulfing the mediterranean and it is all based on flawed thinking that the state if it has power and money can create wealth. the dead hand of bureaucracy is destroying innovation and destroying jobs in europe. national democracy and free markets would be a much better model.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today’s debate has been slightly more heat than light. mr barroso, who has sadly now departed, told us that the eu budget is a catalyst for growth. he is right, assuming that you are a cow or a pig. they do extremely well out of the eu budget and i am sure they will grow very well if mr barroso’s spending plans go through. let me remind you of the history of this. it is not just mr cameron that is calling for a budget freeze. two years ago six member states signed the same letter as he did looking for a budget freeze and it is now of course only the socialists, the uk socialists, who are calling for a budget cut. mr cameron’s position is still for a budget freeze if he can achieve it. let me pick up on mr šefčovič’s slightly pathetic remarks about birmingham city council and the comparisons to the eu civil service, which would be laughable if he were not so serious. birmingham city council employs street cleaners, it employs garbage workers, it employs teachers, and those same civil servants have had a pay freeze for the last three years. what is more, they pay high levels of income tax. they do not pay the 16% income tax that your eu civil servants pay. when you cut out the waste, when you cut out the fraud, when you cut out the irregular payments, when you cut out the errors in the budget, then come back to us and ask for more money.
madam president, in my own constituency of london there are many people who feel that there is simply too much law coming from brussels and far too much eu law. but they are also very upset by the fact that, when we have law, it is not implemented properly and that we implement the rules quite early but other member states do not. for example, we can look at the completion of the single market, which is essential if we are going to achieve growth in europe, rather than simply tighten our belts and cut our spending – although that is also essential to get the budget under control. we want more growth and it is essential that we complete the single market to make sure that our companies can trade across national borders. at the same time, it is also important that countries that are fined by the european court of justice actually pay their fines rather than avoid doing so, as the french did when they were blockading british beef. so, if you want to talk about the application of eu law, make sure you are consistent and make sure we all stick to the rules.
madam president, sitting through this morning’s debate was a bit like george orwell’s two minute hate – or rather two hour hate – the subject being the budget and the target being britain. no one would have gathered, listening to the debate this morning that at least eight and, on some definition, 12 of the 27 national governments have threatened to veto the financial perspective. all of the sneering was directed at us, led as always by mr verhofstadt, but with applause coming from every quarter of the chamber. i am afraid it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that we are simply not popular. i do not mean us politicians, but the people who return us here, which is why the single best reason for us to change our relations with the eu, to become an independent country again, is to improve our relations with our neighbours and take this poison out of the relationship between britain and the continent. you would lose a bad tenant. you would gain a good neighbour.
madam president, in the time of economic downturn energy prices are under the microscope. we therefore have to consider all sources of energy available to us while respecting, of course, environmental concerns. we must also explore all our options and i therefore could not support this report in its existing form. this report may focus on regions and countries that have introduced a moratorium on shale gas. however, there are plenty of regions that are on their way to becoming more energy efficient and self-sustaining because of responsible exploitation of this resource. we need to balance the debate. if the eu is to compete with other areas of the world who are busy exploiting this resource in a responsible way we need to learn from them, particularly from the us in this regard, and without delay in order for us to be economically competitive too.
madam president, cheaper energy is the chief motor of human economic progress. every great advance in our living standards, from the industrial revolution onwards, has been accompanied by a fall in energy prices that allows production prices to fall and makes us more competitive. it allows us to get more out of less. the revolution which happened with oil was a huge improvement. it allowed one barrel to do the work of hundreds of men and all of us are benefiting from the consequent rise in our living standards. shale oil is a providential gift to this part of the world. instead of having to carpet our hills with wind farms and dam our estuaries with turbines, here is a discreet way of getting at more power and ending our reliance on some unpleasant and autocratic regimes. it is crazy that we are thinking of applying the same regulatory model to shale gas extraction that the european union has already unsuccessfully tried to apply to offshore oil extraction. our customers, our people deserve better than this.
madam president, actually shale gas and shale oil are nothing new. shale oil was actually used to light the streets of modena in italy in the 17th century so this debate is not new. but what is important is that we consider the impact not only on the environment but also the impact of the environmental movement on this. it is often said that if the modern combustion engine was invented today the environmental movement would have killed it and we have to understand that we have to get the right balance between technological progress and saving our environment and protecting our environment. at the same time, however, we must not also forget the geopolitical implications. i can understand the frustration of my polish colleagues who are fed up of dependence on russia and hear no sympathy in this parliament from the other political groups. they see shale oil and shale gas as a way of reducing that dependence, so that they can be self-sufficient and not have to depend on an overbearing neighbour, and that should seriously be a consideration in this debate.
madam president, i voted for both the sonik and the tzavela reports on the impact of shale gas. i am very pleased that parliament rejected the calls for a moratorium, not least because it certainly is a member state responsibility and not an eu one. given the energy needs of europe and our reliance on imported gas from russia, it is essential that we explore all the options that are available to us, while ensuring that we have proper environmental controls and regulations to put in place to ensure that the environment is properly protected. we need to get that balance right or else we may choke off the potential that this new technology offers to us. this also has to go hand in hand with further investment in renewables as part of an energy mix that secures the future of eu energy needs going into the future.
madam president, unlike the previous report emanating form the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i can support this report, as it makes clear that it is up to each member state to make responsible decisions concerning shale gas. yet it is clearly within the eu’s wider goals of enhancing energy independence to be open to exploiting this resource further. the energy aspect to this issue is one thing. but the research aspect is also to be considered, as many of the techniques involved in safely accessing shale gas have led to leaps forward in research as new innovative techniques have been developed and continue to be developed as the technology matures. the wider usages for these technologies are yet to be explored but should be considered a priority for eu research and innovation funding too.
madam president, there were moments today during the debate when one felt as if one was in an ionesco play. all these wonderful speeches about how we needed more money to stimulate the economy and get people working again. of course, where it is all going is higher entertainment allowances, protected pensions, higher salaries. even if we though that it was a good idea for the eu to have a redistributory role in finance, do you know which member state of all the member states is the biggest per capita net recipient from the eu budget? luxembourg! although of course common humanity bids us recognise an obligation to the poorest people on the planet, no one has ever explained to me why it is right to give four times as much support to wealthy french farmers as to poor african farmers. but the delicious moment of irony came right at the end. after all the speeches about how we needed more money to make us more efficient and we were cutting out all the waste and we were really focusing on growth, the eu spent eur 600 000 awarding its own film prize.
madam president, we all know that our constituents are worried about higher fuel prices, whether home fuel or petrol prices, so they welcome the view that we are looking for alternatives. it is important that we do not stop technological progress. quite often technological progress leads to cheaper fuel for everyone. it is absolutely right that we have the environmental impact assessment and that we understand that there are different types of ways of extracting shale gas and shale oil, but think of the geopolitical issues. think of the fact that it reduces dependence on some states on which it would be very useful for us to reduce dependence. think of the fact that countries such as poland will no longer be dependent on russia for their energy needs. think of the potential for the united states and other countries to no longer be dependent on oil from some of the most unpleasant regimes in the middle east. a reason for which we used to support some of these dictatorial regimes was that we wanted their oil. so it is important that we understand all these impacts and give as much support as possible to the promotion of shale gas extraction, as long as we get the right balance between the benefits and the environmental concerns.
mr president, i have to admit that i am not always sure how effective petitioning the eu is. the work of the committee on petitions i leave in the capable hands of my colleague and today’s rapporteur, giles chichester. however, this year i am really glad that he has chosen to highlight the issues faced in spain with regard to the operation of coastal laws. one of the small things my constituents do not understand is why the eu cannot do more in ensuring that their rights are upheld when they choose to invest in property and live in another eu member state. the arbitrary application of certain planning laws by regional governments is an issue that i am glad the petitions committee is seeking to highlight, and hopefully address.
madam president, one of the issues which came before the committee on petitions, which i think has exercised members from across the chamber and from all member states, was the abuses of spanish property law, particularly in the comunidad valenciana. i cannot be alone in having had so much traffic from constituents who had had property expropriated or threatened. it was actually easier in the end for me to go to valencia, rather than trying to pursue them all individually from my end. it was a good example – let me fair about this – of the european union tackling a real problem in a practical way, drawing to the attention of a member government that it could do something better without any coercion. although we did not solve that issue a hundred percent, i think we got much of what we wanted. it would be nice if we extended a similar readiness to listen to petitions to other issues. you will have heard this morning, one after another, my colleagues standing up and saying that we need bigger and bigger budgets and then the commissioner responding and saying that he had listened to the debate and that it showed how much we were all in touch with the citizens of europe. i would suggest that it shows precisely the opposite. i hope that we will be able to use this petitions procedure for people to be able to ask for less europe, rather than just for the existing institutions to do other things.
madam president, one of the issues which has come before the committee on petitions – and an issue which affects us all in this chamber because a number of acquisitions are affected – concerns those who have sought to buy properties – particularly those who have sought to buy in spain and who have been affected by the spanish coastal laws. this actually goes back to an earlier debate today: the discussion on the application of eu law. because one of the things my constituents say to me is: hold on a minute – we are supposed to be in this eu; we are supposed to have free movement of people; we are supposed to be able to buy property elsewhere yet, when we buy a property in spain, the regions in spain use local laws to undermine our ability and to actually demand even more money from us. how is it that the eu, at the same time as encouraging free movement of people, cannot do anything about corruption at the local level in spain? i think it is important that this issue is brought to the petitions committee so we can demonstrate right across the spectrum that meps in this house are concerned about issues like that. hopefully we will find a resolution whereby the spanish government and the spanish regions will finally tackle corruption at the local level.
in writing. − i voted against the appointment of tonio borg as a european commissioner.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which considers of great importance the quick release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for those affected by natural catastrophes, and therefore warmly welcomes the prompt submission by the italian authorities of their application for financial assistance from the eusf, as well as the prompt presentation by the commission of its proposal for mobilisation of the eusf.
in writing. − i am pleased that a decision on funding for the italian region of emilia-romagna has finally been taken following earthquakes in the region in may. more than 45 000 people were evacuated from the area and widespread damage was done to residential buildings, infrastructure, businesses and industry. it is vital that emilia-romagna is provided with the financial means to start repairing the severe damage that was done by those earthquakes. i am disappointed that this funding has been so severely delayed and i do not agree with the uk government’s decision to vote against this funding in the council. i am however pleased that parliament has given its full support to mobilising the solidarity fund for italy.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. italy applied for assistance from the fund following a series of earthquakes in may 2012. on 20 may 2012, a heavy earthquake with a magnitude of 5.9 on the richter scale affected wide parts of northern italy and caused severe damage in many towns and villages, in particular around the epicentre, mostly in the provinces of modena and ferrara in the region of emilia-romagna. on 29 may, a second strong earthquake with a magnitude of 5.8 on the richter scale occurred with the epicentre slightly to the west. both events were followed by several serious aftershocks. the earthquakes caused 27 deaths, an estimated 350 people were injured and over 45 000 people had to be evacuated. there was serious and widespread damage to buildings, infrastructure, businesses, industrial facilities, agriculture and to the important cultural heritage sector.
in writing. − the earthquake in italy earlier this year caused huge amounts of damage and suffering. it is one of the cases that should be supported, no matter what your position on single percentage points in the eu budget. i think people both in my own country and across the eu would have more understanding of the added value of the eu mobilizing resources collectively if a higher proportion of the budget were allocated to natural disasters, as opposed to houses of history and pointless treks to strasbourg.
in writing. − although we live in financially constrained times, there are certain expenses which we cannot, and would not wish to, avoid. italy, a country i know and love, and which hosted many happy years of my childhood, suffers the misfortune of being one of the most earthquake-prone countries in europe, as the wrecked buildings of emilia romagna can testify. the eu solidarity fund is designed to help partners in times of crisis to repair the damage from major natural disasters, and as such, we welcome its implementation – provided that the funds are carefully monitored and policed in order to combat fraud and corruption. as the eu bodies make clear, italy meets all the requirements to draw on these funds; i send its affected communities my sincere sympathy, and wish them well with their reconstruction work.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal because adoption of an implementing regulation amending regulation no 2658/87 is needed in order to implement provisions of agreements concerning the modification of concessions with respect to processed poultry meat signed by the european union with brazil and thailand in june 2012. a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment offsetting the increase in bound duties was found under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement. since 2007 russia has continually increased wood export duties, which has affected the price and trade flow of wood products for european importers. this agreement will regulate this to bring stability to trade flows, which should benefit eu producers.
in writing. − following negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994 concluded in 2007 on poultry, the eu has witnessed a dramatic surge in processed poultry imports. foreign exporters seemed to take advantage of a relative gap in the level of protection by reducing chicken meat/offal content in preparations to under 57%, thus qualifying for a bordering tariff line. in the future, similar substitution effects are likely to take place under other tariff lines, covering other types of processed poultry. as the surge in prepared poultry meat imports has negatively affected european poultry industry, the commission was authorised by the council to negotiate the modification of concessions on poultry meat under chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature (cn). i welcome the agreements with brazil and thailand.
in writing. − i abstained on this proposal. although this was a mere correction of a technical error i did not feel the climate was right to vote in favour of any agreement with israel.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the eu has a strong offensive interest in this agreement as it provides for significant improvement in the supply of wood from russia.
in writing. − i congratulate the commission on its proposal, which clarifies the legal framework applied to the migration from sis1+ to sis ii, and particularly applauds the application of the legal framework of sis ii from the moment the first member state completes its migration. this proposal reinforces legal certainty and prevents unnecessary expenses in the member states.
in writing. − for several years, parliament has upheld the need for a clear community solution and rejected the continued use of an intergovernmental structure. this is one of the reasons why i support the sis ii.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s undertaking to make use of the article 260(3) tfeu instrument as a matter of principle in cases of failure to fulfil an obligation covered by this provision, which concerns the transposition of directives adopted under a legislative procedure.
in writing. − i believe that energy policy is and must remain a member state competence. calls in this house for an eu-wide moratorium of fracking is misplaced quite simply because those decisions belong to individual countries. all commercial activities are covered by the relevant eu environmental legislation but the eu must not seek to extend its competences into the area of controlling the natural resources of member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report which among other things considers that the use of shale gas and other fossil fuels must be consistent with article 2 of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which calls for the ‘stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system’ and underlines that substantial lock-in to fossil fuel infrastructures such as shale gas could put this international objective out of reach.
in writing. − the commission is carrying out research on the need for legislation on shale gas extraction and this report sets out the position of the european parliament. i supported the report, which calls for strict regulation to ensure environmental and health safeguards and recommends caution until the commission have completed their research. although i recognise the argument that shale gas could potentially reduce the need for energy imports and therefore increase energy security, we need to consider fully the environmental and safety implications. in particular, we need to address concerns about hydraulic fracking – the process whereby underground rock is blasted with large volumes of water, sand and chemicals to release gas – as this is a new technology, not covered by existing laws. the fact that, in the uk, shale gas exploration is currently suspended due to concerns about increased seismic activity underlines the need for caution. the report also recommends that no taxpayer money be used to fund research and development in shale gas and for regulation to ensure companies are liable for the costs of any accidents.
in writing. − the tzavela report takes a very different view on shale oil and gas from that contained within the sonik report. nevertheless, both reports are fundamentally flawed. energy exploitation must remain a member state competence; it is not for this house to seek to change that.
in writing. − i abstained on this resolution which although heavily modified in plenary still had a bias in favour of shale gas exploitation. i believe more research is required before any exploitation of this resource.
in writing. − the increase in the number of petitions clearly demonstrates that the petitions system is a useful, indeed vital, tool for allowing citizens to connect with the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the failure to agree in conciliation was, in my view, regrettable, not least because the press response sent a very negative message to the public. it gave the impression that it was the parliament refusing to cooperate unless they received more money. in fact, the president of parliament, before he left the chamber, set out the case very clearly. this is a technical dispute. it is a retrospective issue regarding eur 9 billion, which is the sum which is reflected in draft amending budget 6. long term, as mr mulder has just pointed out, the lessons to be learned are that we need far greater security and control of estimates and costs from the member states. but for the immediate what we want to see is a freeze in the size of the 2013 budget. so we fully accept that we cannot reasonably be expected to carry forward such a large liability, a liability which would be in excess of eur 20 billion, from 2012 to 2013. it is clear that this is an issue for council to resolve. i therefore think that we in this parliament should seek a positive engagement with council with a view to an early conclusion.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it is no secret to anybody that the conciliation for 2013 failed before it even started. this was due to the fact that the commission came up with a request for eur 9 billion more to cover this year’s payments. i have been deeply sceptical about the need for this extra cash. most member states cannot afford cofinancing in these times of crisis. we need to remember that in february this year, two months after the close of the 2011 accounts, the budget commissioner told us that there was a shortfall of eur 11 billion. then in april, two months later, he told us there was a eur 1.5 billion surplus. then, at the conciliation last week, mr lewandowski came up with a reduction on payment needs for 2012 of eur 1.5 billion. so which number should we believe now? this behaviour has seriously affected the credibility of the negotiators, notably the commission. no more money should be granted to the commission as long as it fails to produce reliable and precise information. i have been saying this for many years now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the only compromise that the council and the member states assumed was the number that was agreed upon last december for the 2012 budget. the fact that the council said that they would put in more money if it was needed refers to unexpected events, such as the flooding in italy. however, coming up with eur 9 billion, which is almost 7% of the budget for 2012, is really unacceptable and shows that there is no accounting that can be relied upon in the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i believe, mr garriga polledo, that we should have proof that the projects have effectively been run. for me, that would be the evidence that we need the money. i am sorry to say this, but we do not have a need popping up from one day to the next which justifies the eur 9 billion.
mr president, i attended the conciliation meetings as rapporteur for the parliament’s budget and the other sections budget, but we did not get even close to discussing those matters because of the discussions on draft amending budget no 5 and draft amending budget no 6. i am delighted that draft amending budget no 5 has finally been agreed. for us in parliament this was a moral issue and not a financial or a budget issue, so we are pleased with that. i am disappointed, however, that no agreement was possible on draft amending budget no 6. i am concerned that legal commitments will not be met and i am even more concerned about the future of some programmes and some projects. i would hope that the council could come to some agreement amongst themselves on this matter because this is really a fight within the council and they need to sort that out. returning briefly to the issue of parliament’s and the other sections budgets, i just want to remind colleagues in this house how well we did. we have kept our increase next year down to 1.9 %, we have frozen members’ allowances and cut various other budget lines. of course, the 1.9 % figure includes the extra costs of croatia and a 1.7 % salary increase so the real operating increase for this parliament next year is only around 0.6 %, a cut in real terms. i think the parliament can be proud of that. in terms of the other sections’ budgets, there are really only two outstanding issues now. one is the overall level of increases which are to be given to the other institutions. the council still wants a blanket freeze for all institutions in the budget next year. we are saying that is wrong. all the institutions are different and have different needs. therefore we need to look at giving some of them an increase, but of course we are encouraging them to keep their increase down below 1.9 % as well. the other outstanding matter is the 1.7 % salary increase, which is currently with the court of justice. this parliament believes that it is prudent and wise to put that 1.7 % salary increase into reserve. indeed, the matter could be worse because if the court does uphold that salary increase, we could be looking at finding funds going back to july 2007. so i would urge the council, even at this stage, to make the concession and to say we should be putting that 1.7 % salary increase into reserve. this parliament thinks it is wise and prudent to do so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr vaughan, i hold you in the highest esteem, as you know – we share a car every day, or very often, to come into the parliament together – but how can you possibly justify, in the current economic situation, particularly in the united kingdom where there have been either freezes in salaries or people being made redundant in the public sector because of the budget cuts and the austerity, that somehow eurocrats are immune from all of this and are entitled to anything up to a 1.9 % increase in their salaries? surely they should have a total pay freeze in absolute terms or, if anything, a pay cut, in the current climate?
blue-card answer. – i made no comment on the merit of the 1.7% increase. the point i was making is that the court of justice is likely to uphold this salary increase and therefore we will have to pay the 1.7% salary increase whether we want to or not. in those circumstances i think it is wise for parliament to put that money into reserve. i also think it is wise for all the other institutions to put that money into reserve, too, and i am asking the council to accept that position.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on – the oral question to the council on the climate change conference in doha (cop 18) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, satu hassi, miroslav ouzký, sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000160/2012 – (b7-0364/2012), and– the oral question to the commission on the climate change conference in doha (cop 18) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, satu hassi, miroslav ouzký, sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000161/2012 – b7-0365/2012).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, doha must deliver meaningful progress on the durban package. we must carefully balance the risks of climate change with the economic prosperity of the eu. while i believe that the transition to a low-carbon economy offers opportunities for growth and investment, i am also mindful that the eu-15 countries, where emissions are not falling, are those member states which are suffering the most from the euro crisis, for example portugal and spain. while the british government supports a 30% reduction target for co2 emissions, i do not believe there is an appetite for this amongst member states. i therefore hope the commission will proceed cautiously and pragmatically at doha. negotiations over the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol are also going to be tricky. i hope, too, the commission will come up with a workable compromise on this issue that can satisfy the majority of the member states.
mr president, with all the crises going on in the world – the eurozone one, the fiscal cliff in the usa, a nuclear iran etc. – climate change has slipped somewhat down the political agenda. but hurricane sandy was a bit of a wake-up call, and i do now hope that president obama in his second term will act decisively. i have to say that the anthropogenic debate regarding climate change is not entirely settled in my mind, but nevertheless i do support the eu 2020 mitigation agenda, although i worry that the higher, 30%, reduction target for emissions might put my country’s economy at a severe competitive disadvantage, and unless the other major players in the world, such as the usa, canada, japan and the brics, all sign up at the 2015 doha conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol, we will have problems for the future. the eu must speak with one voice – and that is not entirely settled either – but we cannot go it alone to stop this global threat to future generations by stabilising the temperature rise below 2o – which must be our objective. otherwise we face serious problems of desertification, rising ocean levels and mass migration as agriculture and global fishery stocks are depleted. so i do wish the commissioner every success in doha.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group is of the view that eu enlargement is a success story, but we also support a more flexible, variable eu geometry in any new proposed future european union treaty allowing some countries to integrate further than others. as countries develop politically and economically, it is perfectly correct and right that they should be able to contribute to the eu and share in the eu citizens’ prosperity, and in my role as rapporteur for montenegro, an eu candidate, i have witnessed first hand that country’s strides towards eventual accession, although it looks as if its entry into the eu will not be for at least another ten years. other countries such as serbia and macedonia are also making great progress and deserve to be included in our club, although a solution must clearly be found for the greek veto on macedonia’s name question. other general issues such as corruption and organised crime must also be tackled in the western balkans, but we can look forward to good news stories as well. croatia’s entry next year is to be welcomed and if little iceland’s electorate votes to join the eu, then we will be happy to see them in the eu fold as well. an economic block of over 30 countries in the future, with more than 500 million people, would be a serious force to be reckoned with in the world.
mr president, having been a bit fed up in recent days from hearing from other british parties about the eu getting smaller by one, i welcome this forward-looking constructive report about eu enlargement. i would like to address commissioner füle and say that we are supporting you by calling for the momentum towards enlargement to be maintained; i hope our combined commitment towards greater civil society participation will be reflected in the financial commitments for the next ipa programming period and for decentralisation to local government to be included too. when the far right in this debate focuses on absorption capacity they reveal in the same speech that this is cover for a prejudice against turkey. in the eu, we should never agree one rule for big and one for small. as standing rapporteur for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i thank maria eleni koppa for recognising what she calls the fresh dynamic but she will understand if i use this speech also to call on the december european council to agree a date for the country’s accession talks to start.
mr president, it is clear that we must discuss the idea of associate membership because, as the federal threshold rises, it becomes a great deal more tricky for full membership to be attained. association would suit those who cannot meet the membership criteria, and it would also suit those who choose not to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the recent hostilities between hamas and israel over the last week are an avoidable human tragedy. they came about from the escalation of gaza-launched rocket attacks, including longer-range iranian ones, on israel, with indiscriminate targeting of civilian areas, resulting in five civilian deaths in israel and damage to infrastructure. every state has the right to self-defence under article 51 of the un charter, so israel is fully entitled to seek out all legitimate military targets, including rocket launch sites and ammunition dumps, which it has done on a surgical basis. hamas disgracefully sited its launchers in densely populated civilian areas, which make it guilty of another war crime by putting its civilian population at risk of israeli bombardment. the ecr group of course supports a two-state solution based on a viable palestinian state which includes both gaza and the west bank living in peace and security with israel. however, there can be no prospects of such when gaza is run by an eu-banned terrorist organisation wishing to destroy the state of israel. of course we also wish to see negotiations for a palestinian state to restart and we support the moderate leadership of president abbas. however, i am not convinced by the calls within the resolution for un observer state status for the palestinians, as this would undermine the restarting of the peace negotiations. nor am i convinced by the desire to lift the blockade, as i doubt very much, mr zala, that political guarantees or international mechanisms can ensure that there will be no maritime smuggling of arms to gaza, particularly from iran by ship. lastly, my sympathies go out to the victims of today’s bomb attack in tel aviv in which 10 people were injured, making the calls led by egypt for an immediate ceasefire extremely difficult, but i do hope the announcement made by the foreign minister of cyprus will hold and there will be an immediate ceasefire. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer – the key difference, of course, is that israel does not indiscriminately target civilians like hamas and the islamic jihad do when they launch rockets towards cities as far afield as tel aviv and jerusalem. the israelis attempt to destroy military targets. of course it is tragic that any innocent child, woman, civilian or whoever is killed in this bombardment. but the objective is not to kill civilians; it is to eliminate the rocket launchers and the hamas terrorists behind them. it is not an attack on the people. it is an attack on the military infrastructure of gaza. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think i made that very clear in my intervention. of course i support a two-state solution based on israel and a palestinian state living side by side in peace and security, with a viable palestinian state. of course we all support that; what we need now is a cessation of terrorist activities against the state of israel and confidence-building measures which will enable the israelis to feel that they can come back to the negotiating table under the aegis of the quartet and negotiate for a palestinian state. at the moment when rockets are raining down on their territory they are hardly likely to have much confidence in the idea of a two-state solution.
mr president, i want to welcome the news of a possible ceasefire. i think that this house should unite in welcoming this development that has been reported to us this afternoon. i hope it is a ceasefire that will bring some stability into a tense and very violent situation. here in this house we should also be uniting in condemnation of the terrorist bomb attack on the bus in tel aviv. we should be defending the right of israel to defend its own citizens from rocket attack, and i think that we should really examine the role of this house and these institutions. surely we have taken our eye off the ball in that we have allowed this situation of rocket attack after rocket attack from gaza on southern israel to develop over many months and it is only when it becomes so tense and violent that we sit up and take notice. we need to act as an honest broker in these institutions; we need to actually not pursue a quest for statehood at the united nations, but start to build the confidence that can lead us to a viable ceasefire and a long-term solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would like to thank my colleague for her question. i have much experience of peace processes in my own constituency. i can honestly say that in order to build a long, stable and lasting peace, we have to build confidence. i do not think we will build confidence by pursuing agendas other than building confidence between the two actors in this particular issue. we need to look at what israel needs in order for it to get back to the negotiating table as much as we need to look at the palestinian issue as well. so it is a matter of building confidence; it is a matter of being an honest broker and of ensuring that we are even-handed in what we do.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − mr president, the constitutional features of these reports are two-fold: firstly, just how do we make core groups, clusters and reinforced cooperation work? – we still have not really mastered that – and, secondly, the treaty-based linkages between the union and nato. now, just on that second point, the technical cooperation appears to be quite good but we all know that political collaboration is extremely poor or weak. we all know why; it is the old intractable problem of turkey and cyprus. so, i think if there is anything that we are able to do to breathe real life into the csdp, it is to resolve the cyprus problem as soon as we can.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to concentrate my remarks particularly on the tarand report that we have debated in this house. i congratulate mr tarand on the work that he has done. the issue of climate change has been overshadowed in public debate by other security concerns, especially in north africa. but there have been three reports this week: the world bank’s estimate of a 4° temperature rise by the end of the century, the united nations saying action to curb emissions is falling short of what is needed and the european environment agency reporting that the effects of climate change are already being felt here in europe, as i have seen in my constituency in south-west england in the last day or two. climate change is not only adding to the costs of government, it is aggravating the threats to peace and security as the greater impact of climate change beyond our borders causes war about water and adds to the number of climate refugees. this has been acknowledged by high representative solana some five years ago, by our foreign ministers last year and again by the council presidency today, yet no action has been forthcoming. i call on the council to reinvigorate the informal steering group on climate change and to establish a climate envoy because, without that, very little will happen.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have a simple question to the council and the commission: why does the european union not concentrate its crisis-management efforts on the civil and humanitarian contributions that it makes, instead of trying to play soldiers? by doing less, better, the eu might have a chance of actually getting something right. of course, european countries must do more militarily: they are nato allies. but we do not need the eu to be involved to bring that about. i have the greatest respect for my friend mr danjean, but his common security and defence policy (csdp) report is just another chapter in the litany of european integration: little to do with practical capability and all about ‘lending political credibility and visibility to the union’s actions while also allowing political control’. i come back to my point about getting the civil side right. even a csdp enthusiast such as mr danjean wonders why the european union aviation security mission (euavsec) to improve airport security at juba in south sudan is categorised as a csdp mission rather than a straightforward commission project under the instrument for stability. the same might be said of 10 out of the 13 other so-called csdp missions which are purely civilian in nature. i go further: the police training mission in afghanistan has been a catalogue of errors. the eur 500 million eulex mission in kosovo, according to the european court of auditors, has achieved more or less nothing. few of the eu’s costly and distracting csdp missions stand up to critical scrutiny. may i just say that i hope other prime ministers will support the british prime minister tomorrow when he calls for cuts in the eu budget. while some csdp action is useful, the eu’s external action service and its wasteful foreign forays offer immediate scope for savings. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. − mr president, if i could enquire of mr van orden, i read the court of auditors’ report on eulex, exposing the fact that it was poorly resourced and poorly sustained by member states as being the true cause of its relative – and i stress the word relative – lack of success so far. i am sorry that it is being depleted further because of the present budgetary cuts.
blue-card answer – mr president, all i would say is that i think, as far as the european court of auditors is concerned, in that particular instance they had nothing positive to say, and the effect of a lot of the action was to embed a corrupt, predatory elite, allow organised crime to prosper and ruin a customs service that previously seemed to work perfectly well. that seems to be the consequence. now we are talking about getting it right. this is my very point. if the european union actually focused its efforts on these civil missions, to try and get them properly organised and effectively administered, then we might be getting somewhere. my objection is to all this playing around in so-called csdp and all this sort of military activity using the cloak of civil action in order to justify it.
mr president, this resolution is completely unacceptable. it is the equivalent of sending eu tanks across national borders. there is no acceptable eu role in these vital, strategic and offence responsibilities, and no role for commission legislation. just look at the language. the eu ‘should be a global political player on the international scene’ it says, ‘to protect its interests in the world and to ensure the security of its citizens’. all under the roof of a single political authority. it says, the eu has ‘an important role to play as security provider for the member states’ and it wants mergers of european businesses to contribute to european defence industry. well, here is the real aim of this shameful bae/eads merger proposal. but worst of all, it wants to take the eu to war. it talks of having the ‘full range of possibilities for action on the international scene’, of intervening ‘in all types of crisis, including […] high intensity conflicts’ – and that means war. no, this resolution must be stopped in its tracks.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i have to say that my breath is taken away when the cyprus presidency tonight calls kazakhstan, i quote, ‘a pragmatic partner, a friend, having strong strategic relations with the eu’, relations which the presidency seek to have enhanced. i met yevgeny zhovtis, whom liisa jaakonsaari and i campaigned to get released – a human rights leader who has been imprisoned on trumped-up charges. we also met vladimir kozlov, the opposition leader, now, as the presidency rightly says, imprisoned for seven and a half years after a political trial, a trial in which no questions and no exchanges took place in the courtroom and where the judge delivered his verdict in less than two minutes. mrs jeggle, agence france presse has confirmed independently that respublika, vzglyad, golos respubliki, k plus tv and stantv are to be banned as supposedly extremist, in what appears to be an attempt to stop independent media. mr president, human rights activists would be shocked that the eu is seeking enhanced partnership in these circumstances and i ask the president-in-office in her reply to confirm there is already a human rights clause in the agreement with kazakhstan and to say hand on heart that she does not believe it has already been breached.
mr president, i just wonder if you could ask the president-in-office to reply to my point factually. there is a commitment to human rights in the opening of article 2 of the current 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement. therefore, if we have negotiations for an enhanced agreement, is she really saying that the commitments set out in the 1999 agreement have been fulfilled?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, speaking as rapporteur for the eu pnr agreement and as a shadow on a number of other european policing measures, i see this directive as essential in increasing the confidence of european citizens in the work that law enforcement agencies carry out. it is only through applying the highest standards to policing and justice that we create a democracy which has the faith and trust of all its citizens. therefore i hope this directive achieves two main goals: that of protecting civil liberties and lives, but also that of creating mechanisms which allow for the safe exchange of law enforcement data. in order to address the needs of such a system, i believe that a common-sense approach is the best way forward. but certainly i would stress to other members of this house that this directive cannot be a solution for everything and every other law enforcement measure, current or future. we must lose no time in pressing forward with our work and it is our duty to protect european citizens as a result.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wonder who it was who first stood over a shark on the deck of their vessel and stuck a knife deep into it and hacked off its fin, cutting deeply into it, and then told his colleagues to help him throw it overboard back into the sea, where it could swim, sink and starve or just bleed to death. fishing is an inherently cruel activity i suppose but, even by its standards, shark finning is an unpleasant practice. we thought we had dealt with the problem of shark finning some years ago, but of course we left loopholes, and now the commission has come back and is closing those loopholes, and i hope we will end it once and for all. but that should be seen as a first step, because we know from the figures that shark species across the planet have experienced massive declines in the last few years. this is a creature that has been on the planet for hundreds of millions of years – longer than mankind. i would be very sorry if we saw the elimination of entire species during the course of our own lifetimes. i will just turn to the issue of small-scale fisheries. we know that small-scale fisheries, by and large, generally employ more people in the fishing sector as a whole than the large-scale fishing that generates so much income. we also know that, by and large, it causes the least environmental damage. yet on numerous occasions i hear people in my own country and elsewhere saying that it is all the fault of brussels, and that we should be helping small-scale fishermen, giving them a bigger share of the catch and not penalising them. they ask why we are being so bad and so cruel to the small-scale fisherman. yet, of course, it is not brussels, and it is not the commission. the commission – the european union – shares out the fishing opportunities to member states. it is the member states that decide whether the big vessels or the small vessels get it. maybe some of the critics should spend less time criticising brussels and more time criticising their own national capitals.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me first of all congratulate mr ferreira on his important report on the small-scale fleet because not only is the artisanal fleet in eu waters by far the largest sector, representing over 80 % of the eu fleet by vessel number, with tens of thousands of fishermen, supporting thousands of coastal communities across the eu, but it is also a low impact sustainable fishery, matching all of the criteria that we are demanding as legislators. but the livelihoods of our artisanal fishermen are under threat. changing marine ecosystems, fishing pressure from the larger, over ten-metre, vessels and human pressure on coastal areas are all contributing to a downward spiral for local fishermen, who for centuries have supplied fresh, high-quality, diverse, locally-caught fish and shellfish to the market. we have an opportunity within the current cfp reform to correct this negative trend. ever since the cfp was first introduced, there has been discrimination against the artisanal sector. the majority of fishing quotas have been allocated to large-scale fishing operations across the eu, leading to the situation where over 60 % of fish stocks in european waters are now fished beyond sustainable limits. now of course we need to support the large-scale fleet because we are only 40 % self-sufficient in marine produce in europe and we are increasingly dependent on imports of fish products from countries outside the eu, but the artisanal fleet have a key role to play in all of this. one of our core objectives must be to grant the right to fish to those who fish sustainably. that means reducing overcapacity, ending harmful subsidies and destructive practices, and restoring our seas to full health. these should be our guiding principles throughout the discussions on the cfp reform.
mr president, this joint debate covers four important components of fisheries policy, and at the outset i would like to applaud the rapporteurs for their hard work in moving these matters through the committee on fisheries. the new common fisheries policy – when it arrives – will have a bearing on every one of the subjects. a discard ban, maximum sustainable yield and regionalisation are all issues that have come to the fore as the reform has progressed. coming from northern ireland, i want to highlight the importance of the small-scale fleet and the work that the rapporteur has done on this particular report. however, i want to pose what is for me a very important question for the commissioner and for colleagues here tonight. i want to focus on an aspect of the reform that i think is absolutely pivotal to a successful reform, and that is the issue of regionalisation. we all agree that regionalisation is important. it is important for streamlining bureaucracy and management, the more efficient protection of fish stocks, and the working together of the scientific community and the catching sector, be it in the baltic sea, with shark finning or with queen scallop fishing, as in mr gallagher’s report. what i would like to see is this parliament reflecting, in the weeks ahead, on what it really wants from eu fisheries policy. it seems to me that there is a tendency for us to simply want to secure a power base for various eu institutions, rather than what i would like to see as a pragmatic approach to fisheries policy that will benefit fish stocks, those who depend upon them in the catching sector and those who depend upon them for food and sustenance.
mr president, tomorrow i will be voting to strengthen the ban on shark finning and to firmly close such loopholes as still exist, for all the reasons that the commissioner outlined in her comments. tomorrow i will be voting in favour of the external dimension report by my group colleague, ms lövin, which is extremely well focused on that subject. tomorrow i will also be supporting the gallagher and ferreira reports, both of which draw particular attention to lessons we can learn as we grapple with the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the gallagher report deals with some highly complex technical measures which have been of great frustration to fishers in scotland and ireland, amongst other places – a great frustration because technical measures have been in place which have had inappropriate catch-composition rules for too long, and instead of conserving resources have actually directly caused massive discards of haddock. i am glad that at last we are finding a way, hopefully, to get out of that ridiculous situation. the point here which is relevant to cfp reform is that decisions on the detail of technical measures are surely best made by the fishing nations themselves, through decentralised decision-making. i hope that will be taken on board in a new cfp. mr ferreira rightly points out that there are very diverse ranges of types of fishery – types of boats, types of geography, types of catches – and therefore that centralised control is not the best way to manage these resources for the benefit of consumers and communities. again, i hope that decentralisation, rather than such things as mandatory closed areas, will be the way forward.
mr president, shark finning is an appalling practice that has been allowed to continue, despite a ban in 2003, through loopholes and special provisions. while the uk has outlawed shark finning, special fishing permits are still being granted by some member states. as a result, europe ranks second in the world as a producer of shark products, after indonesia. spain issued 1 266 permits between 2004 and 2010, and portugal 145. shark fins are the most valuable part of the catch and can reach up to usd 90 per kilo in asia. as a result, fishermen hack the fins from the sharks to bypass landing the catch at one port, making controls impossible to enforce and enabling this lucrative trade to continue unrestricted. in wales, the fleet of almost 500 boats operating off the coastline is largely spanish-owned and exports 90 % of its catch to china and japan. despite a uk blanket ban, there is nothing we can do to prevent shark finning happening on foreign vessels just off our shores. i stand by the belief that fishing rights should be controlled by domestic governments, but in the meantime, by pushing for an amendment stating that the fin must be attached to the shark in a natural way on landing, we can work to ensure the abatement of this cruel and wasteful practice.
mr president, i am also going to use my minute to address the issue of shark finning, at the risk of repetition. it is imperative that we use this opportunity to close the remaining loopholes in this regulation and ensure that the cruel and wasteful practice of finning is completely eradicated. ensuring that all sharks caught in eu waters by eu vessels are landed with their fins naturally attached is by far the simplest way to ensure this enforcement. in the uk, we have already taken steps to ensure that the wasteful practice of shark finning at sea cannot take place on uk-registered vessels, and we have been joined by many other countries around the world. it is time the eu enshrined this, for all vessels under eu flags. ‘no derogations’ is the best way to ensure a complete end to this wasteful practice. ‘fins naturally attached’ improves and simplifies enforcement and compliance-monitoring and reduces the risk of the regulation being circumvented. i have heard no robust, convincing evidence that there is any reason to do anything other than vote in that direction.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the political party is clearly the missing link of our transnational democracy. i think if we are going to reverse the declining trend in turnout, we need to convert our european political parties into serious campaigning organisations willing to articulate an ideology to make political choices and to win votes. this motion starts that process by calling on our political families to step forward and take responsibility for building the democratic polity of our more federal union. the nomination of party champions as candidates for the commission presidency, as well as the drawing of members of the college from the parliament, follows the logic of the treaty of lisbon, whereby parliament will elect mr barroso’s successor. our success will be measured in just how the personalisation and dramatisation of the election campaign captures the public imagination, fuelling debate about serious questions in front of the next parliament, such as the character, gender balance and strength of the commission; the pace and depth of integration; the size and shape of the budget; and of course the size of union membership. the year 2014 is our chance to transform european democracy and this parliament ought to seize that with confidence and strength.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, may i thank mr cassini and my fellow committee members for their work on this resolution, which contains several good suggestions. we all agree that we need to improve the procedures of the next european elections. we should try to encourage greater participation in these elections by our citizens. i support the change suggested to bring forward the elections from june to may 2014. this will allow parliament more time to scrutinise the new commission president. in the united kingdom, holding the election in may will make it easier to tie in the european elections with our local elections. this will save the taxpayer money and should increase participation. i was pleased that the paragraph which called for at least half of the commissioners to be drawn from members of the european parliament was removed in committee. we should not restrict the right of member states to choose whom they wish to be their commissioner. i hope that the new commission contains both men and women of real talent. they should be appointed on merit, and merit alone. i do not support the demand in this report that the european political parties nominate a candidate for the presidency of the commission who should lead the campaign. the member states in council will choose the new commission president. i ask members here this question: if centre-right parties form a majority in council in 2014, do you really think that they will appoint a socialist – perhaps like martin schulz – to be the commission president, just because socialist parties hold more votes than epp parties in the european elections? in my view, that is not going to happen. for that reason, my group cannot support this resolution.
madam president, is it not deeply ironic in a debate about democracy that this parliament is using rules to actually stifle debate? we are not allowed to use blue cards or catch-the-eye, which means that very small entities such as the non-attached members get no speaking time at all. of course we will all be standing in elections in 2014. you did say at the start of the debate that there would be no catch-the-eye, but you did not say, and it has not previously been put in any of the material or by e-mail, that there would be no blue cards. i think that is a real breach of this debate and shows the eu to be what it is: it talks about democracy but it does not want to let everyone have their say or even their vote.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this is now shamefully the 18th year in a row that the auditors cannot clear the eu budget. worse, 50% of the samples taken by the auditors show irregularities. the excuses the commission puts forward are always the same: it is the fault of the member states: they commit the irregularities. but taxpayers entrust their monies to the european commission, which abjectly fails to perform essential controls before it hands the cash over to the member states. this house is also to blame by continually rubber-stamping the eu budget on the basis that ‘error’ does not necessarily mean ‘fraud’. well, if a farmer gets money for the welfare of his 150 sheep and the auditors find that he does not have any, in the real world this would be considered fraud. the point is that if the commission refuses to take responsibility for taxpayers’ money and blames member states, why does it ask for more money to fund those same member states? this is yet another reason why the eu budget should be cut. what are we waiting for?
madam president, my constituents will not be too surprised to learn that their hard-earned money taken by taxes and passed on to the eu is being negligently handed out by the net recipients of the eu budget. in a week when many member states are seeking an increase in the eu budget to just over eur one trillion, my constituents in the uk say this is unacceptable in a time of austerity. the blame for the failure to have the audit signed off for the 18th year lies firmly at the door of the unelected bureaucrats of the eu. they have failed the taxpayers of europe once again. i note that 60% of the errors found by the court could have been detected by member states, yet it is the quagmire of rules and unnecessary complications that is at fault. and what is the eu doing to correct this? it is not even notifying the member states concerned of the direct problems. one of the examples of the billions wasted is the eur 700 million to establish the rule of law and reduce corruption in kosovo, but the results are poor according to the report. staff delegated were not even sufficiently trained, yet the eu thinks that by throwing in taxpayers’ money without reasonable constraint it can solve the problem. and what about pan-european parties? what about public financing of political parties such as the right-wing extremist parties to which some ukip members have signed up, some nazis – what about the financing of that? a colleague of mine talked about confidence. well, the people of the uk have less and less confidence in the eu, which is why we need an in-or-out referendum, sooner rather than later.
madam president, as rapporteur for the report on protecting the financial interests of the european union, i certainly welcome the court of auditors’ annual report. as colleagues have heard already, the annual rate estimated is 3.9%, however, i do think there are some other things which need to be said as well. for example, i think it is important that the court has pointed out that there is a difference between error and fraud. only about 0.2% of payments are subject to fraud. i think the court of auditors perhaps needs to look at its systems and methods here. for example, overpayments and underpayments are categorised in exactly the same way, minor errors in terms of providing information and filling in documents are also classified as errors. i just wondered if in future the court might find it possible to make a distinction between those different types of things. i also think it is important that, for the first time, the court, in chapter 10, has started to look at the improvement assessment of the commission as well. i know the court says that this does need to be improved. i think it is a good start, because i think part of the court’s function should be to look for improvement. i think, indeed, we all need to look for improvements, whether in the court, in parliament, in member states or in the commission – improvements in terms of the procurement policy, in terms of simplification, maybe having a more risk-based audit in the future: these are all things which can lead to improvement. at the end of the day audits are good, but audits should also lead to improvements in our systems.
madam president, i would like to know what excuses member states are offering for failing to keep their accounts in proper order. i wonder whether they compare with the excuses being offered by mr nigel farage, the leader of the uk independence party, for failing to keep his personal accounts in order. he has made a commitment to complete transparency, but you take one look at his website and you can see that the accounts are unaudited make-believe. by way of excuse, he said that he has lost his receipts, but then, on another occasion he said ‘i have an awful lot of receipts that aren’t there’ – whatever that means. he has gone on to say that he has not had the time to sort out his expenses, despite employing his wife to do these things, and then he said ‘there were some receipts lost, but so what! ’ can the president of the court of auditors tell me whether any member state has ever come up with an excuse quite so pathetic as ‘we have lost the receipts, but so what’?
mr president, the real problem is all manufactured imports from, and all relocations to, china and other emerging economies. indeed, the problem lies with ourselves, or rather with yourselves – addicted to neo-liberalism and the economic and political ideology of globalism. i will let you into a secret. china might have transformed itself into a capitalist economy and country but it is not neo-liberal. it competes with us with artificially depressed wage levels, which not only reduce costs, but also prevent the development of a market for imports from the west. flagrant patent violations, 19th century working conditions, cheap state loans and subsidies and a grossly under-valued currency. in the meanwhile, they are stock-piling resources and western currencies. if you think that global companies originating in the west are on our side, remember they are eagerly relocating where the costs are lowest and the conditions worst.
mr president, the removal of fins from sharks onboard vessels is a practice which neither i nor my political group can support. any derogation or loophole in legislation which creates a potential for allowing shark carcasses to be discarded at sea must be stopped immediately. this barbaric practice can lead to sharks either starving, drowning or being eaten by other fish and the process often takes a number of days. it is shameful that these creatures are treated in such a way and as self-proclaimed proponents and enforcers of animal rights globally it is embarrassing that the european union is behind many other countries around the world when it comes to enforcing rules on the removal of shark fins. i am fully in support of the commission’s proposal to remove the ability of member states to issue special fishing permits, thereby mandating that sharks are landed with their fins naturally attached. i do not wish to see in any way a continuation of the derogation in this regulation.
mr president, the removal of shark fins on board vessels is a needlessly barbaric and wasteful practice. i support the animal welfare campaigns and the eu regulation now proposed to end the excision of fins from sharks to make shark fin soup and then throwing the animals’ carcasses back into the sea for a slow and painful death. in britain we have already made it illegal to practise shark finning on british registered vessels, and it is surely time now for the eu to meet the standards set by many other countries worldwide. there must therefore be no further loopholes and no derogation specifically aimed at spanish and portuguese fishermen on this issue. furthermore, we should also look more closely at the notion of overfishing of certain species of sharks, which threatens to bring about the extinction of these species, which have been alive and well and thriving in our oceans for over a million years. it would be tragic to see an extinction of the shark generally.
mr president, uk conservatives have grave reservations about the csdp, in particular that it will result in duplication of the work of nato, which must remain the anchor to britain’s national defence at a time of defence cuts. the advantage of nato is to forge strong transatlantic links with the united states and there are serious concerns that the csdp could decouple us from our american allies. nevertheless, i believe that it is in britain’s interest to remain pragmatically engaged with csdp operations when it can bring additional resources to bear. i am the rapporteur for the horn of africa and accept that the eu navfor atalanta mission, which fights piracy in the indian ocean, together with the eu training mission in uganda, are proving useful. i will be watching with interest the mission to mali with ecowas to see what it can do to stabilise the sahel region, as well as the eulex mission, which is a civilian mission to kosovo. that has also proved fairly useful. so i remain, as it were, sceptical of csdp but watching it with a great deal of interest.
mr president, kazahkstan is larger than western europe and represents a vital player in central asia and is an excellent model of christian-islamic coexistence in that country. both its size and massive oil and mineral wealth ensure that it cannot be ignored by the eu, nor should it be, because it offers a bridge between europe and asia and the country has much to contribute to both continents. certainly it is perfectly able to retain links with russia, by being part of the eurasian economic committee and, at the same time, seek closer cooperation with the european union. such cooperation will bring tangible benefits to both sides, but it must come hand in hand with more democracy and better human rights for its people. we must also focus efforts on helping the kazakh government to develop its infrastructure in this vast country. if these goals can be met, the pca, together with the eventual kazakh accession to the wto, will be a good idea and will more closely integrate kazahkstan into european union friendship internationally, together with its partners, and also into the multilateral organisations where kazahkstan rightly belongs. it will also increase the chances of prosperity for its people. therefore i support the report.
mr president, i can say with some certainty that, in times of austerity, my constituents do not want their taxes spent on political campaigns and propaganda. i voted against these proposals that seek to further the use of pan-european parties, with all their expense and their ideology of promoting eu federalism. the majority of people in the uk do not share an eu identity. in successive eu elections, people have used the elections to express their disapproval of the eu. opinion poll after opinion poll shows dissatisfaction with the eu and a wish for a referendum. my constituents do not wish to hear propaganda, paid for by their taxes, telling them how great the eu is. they feel the reality of cutbacks in public services, whilst the uk pays more and more to the eu – a luxury we cannot afford. in 2014 the we demand a referendum party will put on the ballot paper those words, ‘we demand a referendum’. this will allow the electorate from the uk to send you, and our government, a message, loud and clear, that we demand an in-out referendum.
in writing. − in its proposal for a regulation on the baltic salmon stock, the commission delegates to the member states powers to regulate certain areas which are regarded as falling within the exclusive competence of the union (conservation of marine resources). in so doing the commission gives its support for regionalisation and decentralisation of management in the area of eu fisheries policy. it retains, nevertheless, the right to intervene should a member state not comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation, which are designed to lead to the re-establishment of the baltic salmon stock. delegated acts should be considered a positive element in the unification of the cfp, which, in the context of this regulation, enables the commission to improve controls and delegate powers to the relevant member states more effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the granting of delegated powers for the adoption of certain measures (‘trade omnibus ii’) is intended to bring 10 trade policy regulations in line with the new primary-law provisions of the lisbon treaty. more specifically, it serves to align the regulations to article 290 which for the first time introduces delegated acts into european law. it gives the legislator the possibility to delegate on the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. the legislator retains the power to revoke the delegation at any time and thus take the relevant decision itself. in addition, any decision taken in the form of a delegated act may be vetoed by the legislator, it is sufficient for either the council or parliament to object to a draft delegated act proposed by the commission.
in writing. − i supported postponing the vote on the draft legislative resolution. it is unfortunate that parliament is presented with yet another proposal on transitional technical measures rather than a permanent solution being found in due time. the european fishermen need legal clarity and the word ‘temporarily’ should not be lead ad absurdum.
in writing. − i warmly welcome this report. the practice of finning is unacceptable from the environmental point of view, because it threatens the sustainability of some shark species targeted by this practice, from the social and economic point of view, because it involves squandering a source of food with commercial value, and also from the moral point of view, because it shows a total disrespect for animal life. the practice of finning should therefore be repudiated unequivocally and appropriate measures should be taken to ensure that this practice is effectively banned in european waters and in the community fleet.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support changes to the current legislation to make sure shark finning on vessels is banned and that no exemptions for eu member states can be granted. the legislation from 2003 was not strict enough and allowed fishermen to remove sharks’ fins whilst on vessels and then throw them back in the water to die. new legislation will mean that all sharks will have to be landed with their fins naturally attached, rather than carcasses being discarded into the sea. i welcome the move to make sure that, where local authorities are unable to carry out controls in ports, vessel owners will be responsible for hiring an independent body to do the job. this legislation bring the rest of europe up to speed with measures already in force in the uk which put a stop to this wasteful, cruel practice.
in writing. − i supported this report, which calls for the abolition of loopholes that allow shark finning to continue. shark finning – the process whereby a shark’s fin is removed on board a fishing vessel and the rest of the shark discarded back into the sea – is illegal under eu law but is still allowed by vessels that have received a special permit. this proposal calls for all eu vessels, and all vessels fishing in eu waters, to be required to land sharks with their fins still attached and it is hoped that, by doing do, the number of shark catches will be reduced. many shark species are threatened, some are close to extinction. shark finning is not only thought to be contributing to the decline in shark numbers, it is also cruel as fins are sometimes removed while the shark is still alive. as the eu ranks second in the world for the number of shark catches, we therefore have an important role to play in helping to protect them. the eu has also legally committed to adopt measures aimed at helping to protect sharks and this proposal should go some way to achieving that.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls for the eu to sign the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it is of great importance, as it establishes a system allowing participating states to cooperate in order to find a solution to international child abductions, by determining which courts are competent and which law is applicable when deciding where the child should reside.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction. the adoption of this resolution will allow gabon, andorra, the seychelles, russia, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia to accede to the convention. the accession of these countries is especially important as it will protect both european children with relatives in those states as well as children living in those countries who also have connections with eu states. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which constitutes an important step in ensuring that abducted children are promptly returned to their parents or guardians should they be wrongfully removed.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which expresses concern that the itu reform proposals include the establishment of new profit mechanisms that could seriously threaten the open and competitive nature of the internet, driving up prices, hampering innovation and limiting access. it also recalls that the internet should remain free and open.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and am particularly pleased that amendment 21 was carried. this states that it is in the eu’s own interest to aim for a climate protection target of 30% by 2020 creating sustainable growth, additional jobs and energy independency.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recalls the need for candidate and potential candidate countries to make improvements in the fields of democracy, human rights, and reconciliation processes, areas which should always be given priority in the enlargement process.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i particularly welcome it supports for palestine’s bid to become a un non-member observer, and consider this an important step in making palestinian claims more visible, stronger and more effective. it also calls on the eu member states and the international community to find an agreement in this direction.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘stresses that the eu should be a global political player on the international scene in order to promote international peace and security, to protect its interests in the world and to ensure the security of its citizens; believes that the eu should be able to assume its responsibilities when confronted with international threats, crises and conflicts, especially in its neighbourhood; underlines, in this connection, the need for the eu to be consistent in its policies and faster and more efficient in taking up the aforementioned responsibilities’.
in writing. − there are some aspects of eu external action which are useful. these include humanitarian and development assistance and certain aspects of foreign policy engagement. however, there is no acceptable justification for eu involvement in military matters. the promotion of eu military structures under the guise of a common security and defence policy (csdp) with a largely civil component is of course, a sleight of hand. the danjean report is merely another chapter in the extensive litany of reports advancing european political integration. it wants the eu to develop its autonomous capability to intervene in ‘high-intensity conflicts’ (paragraph 21); calls for an increase in the numbers of eeas staff dealing with crisis management and csdp missions (paragraph 62); and regrets that no new eu military operations have been launched. it also calls for the creation of a permanent eu operational headquarters ‘if necessary, through permanent structured cooperation’ - a mechanism to bypass our national vetoes(paragraph 102). the ecr could not, therefore, support this report.
in writing. − i abstained on this resolution because in my opinion it goes too far at the present time in calling for a permanent eu operational hq.
in writing. − this report examines the current scope, and future potential, of two clauses of the treaty of lisbon – article 42(7) teu otherwise known as the ‘mutual assistance clause’, and article 222 tfeu, or ‘mutual solidarity clause’. the first is a duplication of article 5 of the nato treaty, creating an illusion that the eu has capabilities which it does not possess. this is misleadingly dangerous and we oppose it. however, the mutual solidarity clause does have some merit – for example if one member state is overwhelmed by a natural disaster. it is essentially a civil mutual assistance contingency. of course, such assistance would normally be provided on an urgent bilateral basis by neighbouring countries and there is no reason to set up yet more eu structures. for these reasons, the ecr abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission and council to unequivocally recognise digital freedoms as fundamental rights and as indispensable prerequisites for enjoying universal human rights; stresses that member states should aim never to endanger their citizens‘ rights and freedoms when developing their responses to cyber threats and attacks and should have adequate legislative differences between civilian and military level cyber incidents; calls for caution in applying restrictions on the ability of citizens to make use of communication and information technology tools.
in writing. − cyber security is a serious global threat – both to the security and defence of our countries and to vital national infrastructure. this report gives its assessment of the current needs of eu member states and, not surprisingly, promotes a greater eu role over and above the strong bilateral relationships that already exist on this issue. we are of course supportive of increased international cooperation to tackle this major threat. much is being done nationally and through nato. we see no need for the council and commission to draw up a white paper on cyber defence for europe (paragraph 7), nor can we support cyber security being made an ‘active capability of csdp’ (paragraph 4). for these reasons, the ecr abstained in the final vote on this report.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which draws attention to the fact that energy security is closely related to climate change; considers that energy security must be improved by reducing the eu’s dependence on fossil fuels such as those imported from russia via pipelines; recalls that these pipelines will become vulnerable to disruption by the melting of the permafrost, and highlights that the transformation of the arctic represents one major effect of climate change on eu security; stresses the need to address this risk multiplier through a reinforced eu strategy for the arctic, and through an enhanced policy of eu-generated renewable energies and energy efficiency that significantly reduces the union’s reliance on external sources and thereby improves its security position.
in writing. − this report addresses the idea that climate-change-related crises, such as extreme weather patterns, will impact on global security. it points out that natural disasters, exacerbated by climate change, are highly destabilising, particularly for vulnerable states, and calls upon the eu in its external action strategies, policies and instruments, to take these climate issues into consideration. while the report does acknowledge that nato was at the heart of the first international answer to environmental security challenges back in 2004 (paragraph 5), the thrust of the report is pushing for a greater eu role and engagement for csdp. for these reasons, we voted against the final report in plenary.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which urges the kazakh authorities to make every effort to improve the human rights situation in their country.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution. in view of small-scale fishing’s structural weaknesses, this sector is more exposed to certain types of external shock and to rapid changes in the availability of resources than the elements of the fleet considered more competitive. as such, consideration should be given to the possibility of creating specific support mechanisms to be implemented in emergencies, such as natural disasters, fishing stoppages imposed by plans for restoring stocks or sudden increases in fuel prices.
in writing. − today i voted for a boost to small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing and called for recognition of the specific characteristics of this industry. the common fisheries policy (cfp) has been a disaster for decades and i am fully supportive of urgent reform. meanwhile, my vote today recognises the economic, cultural and social value of our coastal fishing vessels of less than 12 metres, and is a step in the right direction for the local, sustainable and scientific management of our fisheries.
in writing. − this report, which has my full support, highlights that small-scale fisheries often have different needs and characteristics in comparison to their large-scale counterparts. it is unrealistic to assume a ‘one size fits all’ approach in terms of fisheries policy, and this report accordingly points out the fundamental differences between artisanal and industrial fisheries. traditional coastal fishing regions and islands are heavily economically dependent on small-scale operations and the social benefits of the sector to small coastal communities are significant. the report therefore recommends providing financial support to small-scale fisheries and encouraging young people’s involvement in artisanal fishing. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report and would like to see small-scale fisheries become a priority within the cfp.
in writing. − 80% of fishing vessels in the eu are part of the small-scale fishing fleet and small-scale fisheries have different characteristics, and face very different problems, to larger, industrial fishing fleets. there needs to be recognition in the common fisheries policy of the role of smaller fishing fleets, in particular in coastal communities. i supported this own-initiative report, which calls for financial support for small-scale fishing, projects to encourage increased involvement of young people in fishing, as well as recognition of the integral part such fleets play in local communities and the role of women in fishing.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s commitment to a new generation of sustainable fisheries agreements (sfas); underlines the importance of their economic, social and environmental impact assessments; stresses the need to make respect for human rights a necessary condition in the sfas and to ensure respect by partner countries of the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo).
in writing. − i supported the key element of this resolution which is to bring forward the date of the european elections to give the new parliament sufficient time to organise itself in advance of the election of the commission president.
author. − mr president, the fascist iranian regime has used the smokescreen of gaza to accelerate the number of executions and amputations that have been taking place in that country. more than 80 people have been executed in the past ten days, but that simply adds to the 120 000 people executed over the past 30 years – many of them supporters of the opposition pmoi. i have here a volume that contains the first volume of 20 000 names of executed pmoi supporters in the fascist-run regime of iran, which is an absolute outrage. it is also an outrage that this parliament tried to send a friendship delegation last month to visit these murderers. the only reason they were stopped was because we awarded the sakharov prize to the iranian dissident, nasrin sotoudeh, who is now on her sixth day of hunger strike and is critically ill. we must never send a friendship delegation to that fascist regime again.
mr president, we in this house have watched with grave alarm over many years now as the human rights situation in iran – not to mention the political situation, as well – continues to deteriorate. as this resolution makes clear, the iranian regime is guilty of the most egregious abuses of basic human rights, sentencing hundreds of people to death on spurious grounds and without due process or trial, violently oppressing women, gay people and other minorities such as the ahwazi arabs, baluchis, baha’is, kurds and so on, and cracking down on any kind of political dissent. the death in custody now of sattar beheshti, a blogger, is a grave crime which must not go unpunished. we in this parliament must summon all the resources of the eu to assist the iranian people in their struggle against state repression. awarding the sakharov prize to nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi was a significant and symbolic step, but surely just the beginning of a process. we can only hope that a new momentum of diplomatic pressure might persuade the brutal iranian government to improve its legal and judicial processes and to stop persecuting its own citizens, who deserve much better.
in writing. – there is no doubting the importance of this issue; many thousands of migrants face genuine human rights abuses while incarcerated in libya, and are subject to substantive discrimination when at liberty. but i have real reservations about the timing of this resolution: the new government, the first to be democratically elected in half a century, was sworn in literally a week ago, and has had no opportunity to improve the human rights situation for migrants, or indeed, citizens in general. nevertheless, it is important that the new government finds ways of regularizing the legal situation of these migrants, or assisting in their safe and orderly return to their countries of origin. i hope that this problem can be resolved satisfactorily, as the new libya faces many challenges in its reconstruction and transition to a multi-party democracy, and needs all the help from the international community that it can get.
mr president, the report talks of the liberalisation of trade, investment and public tendering leading to mutual benefit. trade liberalisation is, of course, a euphemism for globalisation, which actually leads to mutual detriment. the european union will export its industrial technology to central america, or possibly even relocate its manufacturing there, employing cheaper labour working in inferior conditions. cheap, duty-free goods will flow into the eu, jeopardising profits, wages and jobs in member states. these are already in deep recession, with rising government debt. the report boasts of the expansion of the quantity and range of goods that will be tariff-free. the commitment to public tendering will allow multinationals based in the eu to swallow up public procurement contracts in central america. this agreement, like globalisation – of which it is a part – is not for the benefit of ordinary people there or here, but in the interests of multinational corporations.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, colombia has had a gsp+ agreement but has been breaking its conditions for years. far from enforcing it, the eu proceeded to a full fta. this was baffling to us and the colombians who were fighting for justice. the fta has safeguard clauses on human rights and on the environment. we would have gone further, and were uncertain that real and lasting changes were in place, so we passed the roadmap, which called for clear, measurable progress towards robust protection for minorities, environment protection and freedom of speech. the governments have responded, but we have not yet heard from the monitoring groups and other stakeholders, which is a pity. when i visited bogotá, i met ministers working on the issues. i found people committed to change and to ushering in a new era for colombia. i met president santos and was impressed with his commitment to change. i also spoke with ngos who were distrustful as to whether any real progress was happening, but i feel we have no choice now but to look to the future. we should not be under any illusion about the continuing presence of the old forces which caused many of colombia’s difficulties, but there has been progress in colombia, with the government showing willingness to engage with the eu and to address our concerns. however, we have seen other countries slip back once agreements have been signed. will this happen with colombia? do we have sufficient reason to proceed, or should we refuse to do so? the us, canada and norway have trade agreements with these two countries and china is now opening negotiations. without europe’s presence under an fta can we stay actively involved, and be in a position to monitor progress or exercise any influence on the issues we have all worked towards? it is unlikely. so my group will support this agreement, but this support goes with a clear message: this is just the start of our relationship. the european parliament will be watching progress carefully. this is the beginning of a closer relationship which i hope will help to bring increased prosperity, stability and, most of all, peace to the colombian and peruvian peoples, as well as to the eu.
madam president, i have just returned from colombia today. last friday i had a private meeting with the vice-president of colombia, angelino garzón, himself a renowned and courageous trade union leader. he said that it was vitally necessary for the european parliament to vote in favour of this free trade agreement. he said that those who oppose this agreement on human rights grounds simply do not understand the reality of colombia today. he explained to me that next week in bogotá he has organised a major conference on human rights, which will be attended by our eu ambassador tanya van gool. he said that the colombian government is deep in negotiations with business, industry and the trade unions over an above-inflation rise in the minimum wage, and on social dialogue. in addition he told me that the current santos government has financed a massive security operation to protect trade unionists. he confirmed that the government is trying to stamp out the right-wing paramilitary groups and to maintain the highest levels of human rights. they are also cracking down on bad banks and introducing tough regulatory measures. he said that only countries that are open to trade have a consistently high standard of human rights, while countries that are closed to trade usually do not. so he emphasised that it will send a really good message to the rest of latin america if this parliament votes in favour of the free trade agreement this week. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i note that you have used your speaking time only to repeat the words of the colombian government. however, when they spoke with you, did they tell you that the scheme to protect trade unionists has been cut in half? there are trade unionists like oscar orozco in the trade union confederation, who has received several death threats and has had shots fired against him in may and june of this year – on 4 august he was shot at seven times. despite that, the colombian government has reduced his protection and, as i said, half of all protection for trade unionists. did they tell you both sides of the story?
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for that question, mr howitt. indeed they were describing to me exactly that position, but they explained to me that they are able to reduce the massive amount of protection and finance that has gone into that because the murder rate – which is still diabolical across the whole of society in colombia, while still targeting to some extent trade unionists – has fallen! i am not sure if you are aware of this, but only last week the inter-american court of human rights, which is the equivalent of the eu court of human rights in strasbourg, gave a clean bill of health to colombia on its human rights record. that is an absolute breakthrough. we here should all be welcoming that development rather than continuing to criticise the country for historical human rights abuses which this government in colombia has struggled to overcome.
madam president, the only common ground in this debate appears to be that for decades systematic abuses of human rights have taken place in colombia and that the free trade agreement has acted as a carrot for bringing the colombians to the table to talk about these issues. but you do not withdraw a carrot so easily, based on the slim evidence we have so far. what is clear to me so far is that the colombian government has got better at human rights propaganda. there is no evidence on the ground that they have got better at human rights per se. as others have said, we are still in a position where, last year, 35 trade unionists died in colombia. this year, up until october, 17 trade unionists have been murdered. we still have human rights defenders facing death threats, assassination, kidnapping. we still have journalists who are shot for the words that they put down on paper. the government are making the right noises in relation to human rights but, until they actually change the situation on the ground, it will not be right for this parliament to approve a free trade agreement with them.
madam president, whilst we have heard tonight about avocado and asparagus this debate should focus on the fact that under this administration in colombia there have been the assassinations of 243 social activists, 69 of them trade unionists; that despite an action plan from the colombian government, the united nations says that impunity for these crimes stands at 95%; and that recently, this year, the colombian government has expanded impunity for the military, something which, contrary to what mr stevenson has said, has been criticised by the inter-american commission on human rights and un rapporteur. if the european union and this parliament do not use their trade powers now to leverage human rights in colombia – which amnesty international describes as the most dangerous country in the world in which to be a human rights defender – i do not know when we will. let us be clear: 250 human rights organisations, including catholic bishops and aid agencies, fédération internationale des ligues des droits de l’homme and the international commission of jurists, ask us to vote ‘no’. the european and international trade union confederations ask us to vote ‘no’. in paragraph 15 of our own parliament resolution in april, we said we would only vote ‘yes’ if there was a binding mechanism for rights protection. tell me, mr david, how this has been achieved. and the crying shame is that those of us who have campaigned against this agreement care deeply for the future peace, prosperity and freedoms in a country that we love. i only wish that those who dismiss our arguments cared as much. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, what i know is that the human rights organisation themselves say that the time is not yet right. mr salafranca, i respect you and i believe i have won your respect on an issue on colombia about which we wholly disagree. but i would say, to you and any people on that side of the house who want to push this agreement through this week, that the benefits are there under the existing agreement. the human rights clause is there under the existing agreement; it is the commissioner who refuses to enact it. it is the commissioner who said it was a joke when there was illegal surveillance against human rights defenders and against a committee of this very parliament. we have seen fake trade unionists and fake civil society organisations brought to this parliament and trying to give us a view so as to skew what we should do. i agree with those who say we should stick to principle, and principle says that it is not yet right to ratify this agreement.
mr president, we are used to hearing supporters of the eu project saying that we need more economic union, not less – not a sentiment i agree with. but i would say that the european union is not european enough, and has become wedded to the political and economic ideology of globalism. the report refers with approval to the eu document of 2006 entitled ‘global europe’. this agreement, like many similar ones, removes virtually all tariff and non-tariff barriers after a transitional period. the eu is moving slowly but surely towards a world free of tariffs, a situation in which all living standards in the world will gravitate to the same level. the eu is sailing under a false flag. it is not a european union, but a global union.
mr president, there is a clear rule for a personal statement. i am sure you want to uphold the dignity and seriousness of this debate, which is why you were a little reluctant to call me. i want to express that i respect that and i respect the commissioner in his position as well, so i am not going to make a statement that provokes further lack of seriousness in relation to the issue. as a personal statement, it is important that i put on record, firstly, that the joke he does not recall was to get his mobile phone out of his pocket and read the answer. perhaps on the day he thought that was a humorous way of dealing with it. i did not, but i simply place that on the record. the important fact that i put to him that day and today is that illegal surveillance was carried out by the colombians – which, by the way, the colombians will not give us the papers for, they have kept the papers secret, which is why the belgian authorities cannot investigate it. but that showed … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, human trafficking does not need to involve the crossing of national frontiers or even travel within a country. according to the un it includes ‘recruiting people by deception for exploitation for prostitution’ – what we in britain call ‘grooming’. british police and politicians were for years frightened to act for fear of being called racists. when my colleagues on bradford metropolitan council in 2006 proposed a motion urging action against grooming, all the other councillors and parties voted against it. those councillors included the present conservative mp for keighley, who is belatedly trying to exploit the issue. whilst nationalists came to the rescue of british adolescents, all of the other parties walked by on the other side. when my former colleague, an mep for the north-west, tried to draw public attention to the issue, the police and cps tried unsuccessfully to prosecute him for incitement.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs angelilli, for this comprehensive report which will certainly make a very valuable contribution to our efforts to improve the health of european citizens and in particular the health of women. first of all, i share many of the concerns expressed in this report, which highlights areas where we can and must do better than we have done so far. i will now switch to english. the report clearly indicates that there are diseases which affect mainly women, such as osteoporosis, diseases where the prevalence is greater in women than in men, such as alzheimer's or depression, and diseases where the incidence in women is increasing, such as lung cancer or cardiovascular diseases. i can assure you that i am committed to doing my utmost to help address the current situation. gender is a factor of health inequality. this needs to be taken into account in the drafting of all our health policies. the commission is strongly engaged in this area: for example, ageing, chronic diseases and health inequalities. the ageing society is of universal concern but has particular relevance to the health sector. why? why? because, as everyone has said in their speeches, europeans are living longer. however, on average, 25% of a woman's life is lived in bad health. if we fail to take action, women will be suffering longer and longer from chronic diseases. this is not acceptable. doing nothing is also not an option. therefore we must not be lulled into thinking that chronic diseases are unavoidable consequences of the aging process. there is much that can be done to prevent or at least mitigate the onset of chronic diseases. of course, not all diseases can be prevented, but more often than not they can. member states, and also the european union, can do a great deal to create the right conditions to enable people to make healthy choices in the way they lead their lives. the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015 includes a commitment to considering gender issues in health policies. the first action is to promote gender impact assessment of policies and programmes, something which the commission is doing. the strategy underlines the need to promote gender mainstreaming in health policies in line with the eu health strategy and the communication on health inequalities. i mention in particular in our work on hiv/aids, tobacco and cancer. let me say a brief word on the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing. the partnership offers and promotes a novel way of working through joint efforts and resources. we've already seen different stakeholders coming together, putting forward action plans that focus on innovative activities, on disease prevention and early diagnosis, care and cure, and active aging and independent living. several actions have been undertaken under the partnership to tackle the problems that particularly affect women. the commission works on disease prevention in different areas and with a variety of approaches. for example: the platform on nutrition, diet and physical activity; the work on harmful alcohol consumption; and activities to encourage people to stop smoking: i hope we will soon adopt the tobacco directive in the college. on smoking in particular, i fully share your concern about the increasing number of women who smoke, especially young women. if disease distribution and the situation regarding specific health determinants are changing for women in the eu, we need to reflect this in our prevention efforts and adapt them accordingly. i agree with the need to ensure a gender angle for prevention and for treatment, which is why we will soon begin work on a project aimed at tackling the different needs and attitudes between women and men in prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. and one last point, with your indulgence: this is why we will continue to work to improve the quality of screening for breast cancer and for cervical cancer as well as for colorectal cancer and work on a european accreditation scheme for breast cancer services.
in writing. – in spite of women’s greater life expectancy it unfortunately does not follow that this means that they enjoy more years of good health. in fact, it remains that older women are actually more susceptible to certain diseases such as cancer, osteoporosis and rheumatism. the consistent gender pay gap a woman will experience over her lifetime inevitably leads to a worrying pensions pay gap – leaving many older women at risk of poverty and subsequently much more at risk of ill health. the economic crisis and the accompanying savage austerity cuts are having a serious impact on the most vulnerable sections of society, such as older women. it is vital that older women have the right to live a dignified and independent life and play their part in culture and society. their right to good health cannot be ignored.
madam president, as chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which was responsible for this very important report, i want to thank pablo arias very much indeed for the work he has done. i just want to talk with colleagues here today about the engagement that he and the committee have shown towards this topic and to say how we want to move it forward. this is not just a response to the commission’s very good paper from dg internal market about competence and trust in the internal market. the committee agreed two years ago to set up a series of monthly working groups, led by pablo arias, to address all the issues around moving the single market forward. they have been held in public, we have taken evidence and we have had a lot of engagement from the commission. that has fed into this report. we have now given pablo arias a mandate to continue this work, because i think the biggest single lesson from this report – as is indicated by the richness of all the contributions we have had from many colleagues here today – is that this is a huge agenda. but it is not actually as joined-up as it ought to be at commission level. we think that we need to move this forward with the sort of structured plan that we have with the single market act: a clear set of timetabled actions to move the digital single market forward. i think that will be very much in our thinking: the third single market act – the digital single market act – and pablo arias and his team are going to work on that. i hope that commissioner borg, whom i warmly welcome at his first appearance here, will also be a firm participant in that initiative.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i firstly thank my colleague rapporteurs and commissioner barnier, whose leadership on this issue is recognised and most welcome. this is really a perfect example of what is so wrong with europe. so many of my chronologically-wiser colleagues tell me of the screaming demand there was many years ago for such measures. our response was 40 years in the waiting. in committee, when i said that we should possibly put forward a compromise by having a german-speaking court in london, a french-speaking court in munich and an english-speaking one in paris, with spanish as a default position, it seems the council thought that this was a serious proposal and solution. it was not. our innovators need this measure, and they need us to act fast on this and so many other issues. china is breathing down our necks. what is the situation? i recall clearly, as the rapporteur dealing with the eu-india free trade agreement negotiations. going to india and speaking to them about how they should beef up their intellectual property protection and provisions. today, i look at what they have and compare it to what we have and i am seriously envious. we have been left behind. what is the situation in the united states of america? they have issued three times more patents than us, and china twice as many. when one looks at the situation with regard to the growth in applications, it is the same. china, japan and the united states of america have accounted for 82% of total growth. we cannot exaggerate the importance of this measure. it is vital and we have to respond to the situation. the need is real and urgent.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this is yet another unwarranted and unnecessary transfer of sovereignty from the nation state to the european union. there is a highly respected patent court in the uk which is currently worth something like gbp 750 million per annum and this is now in danger. patent specialists in the uk strongly contend that there is no demand in the uk for this change. there are serious concerns about judicial appointments to the new court and therefore about the quality of the decisions that will be made. instead of a meritocratic appointment system, it seems that subscribing member states will be entitled to a judge. many of the smaller countries have tiny patent jurisdictions, few patent judges and few legal practitioners in this field from whom to choose judges. as with so much legislation from this place, this is being done in favour of very large companies at the expense of small and medium-sized businesses. smes and individuals will be seriously disadvantaged in protecting their innovations, by reason of cost and inconvenience, bearing in mind that they will have to go to france and germany to protect their work rather than to local courts. we are told that there will be cost savings, but that is not the opinion of experts. one estimate is that litigation costs will increase by a factor of three. uk independence party meps will vote against this measure. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr batten, what you have just said is utter nonsense. this measure has been coming for the past forty years. can you give me an indication of when you have come to a single committee meeting and raised any of these objections? you have had ample opportunity to do so; not a single ukip member has ever done so and yet you take the floor here today to grandstand. utter nonsense you have just spoken.
blue-card answer. – mr karim, of course, unlike you i am not a great devotee of the european union, but i have got my information from dr jochen pagenberg, who is an expert in the field, admitted to the munich and paris bars; the author was a member of the eu’s committee of experts and withdrew from this body by the end of 2011. so unlike you, i am not a devotee of this place who wants more and more eu legislation, but in this case i have referred to the opinions of an expert who knows what he is talking about.
mr president, in 2009 the kyrgyz republic was hit by the global crisis, which was aggravated by a popular revolt deposing the regime of president bakiyev amidst allegations of corruption and lack of democracy. free parliamentary elections were held in october 2010, establishing the first parliamentary democracy in the central asia region. in support of the pro-democratic kyrgyz authorities’ efforts to alleviate the consequences of the tragic events, eur 30 million has been provided, proposed by the commission, to be disbursed half in loans and half in grants. although it is important that the kyrgyz republic make the transition to full democracy, this is not an insubstantial amount of money. given the difficulties being experienced by member states and the cutbacks being made around europe, we must ensure that any financial assistance we give has strict conditions attached and shows real progress in promoting human rights and democracy.
mr president, it is wonderful that we have got all this money lying around to send to kyrgyzstan, is it not? here we are in the european union, borrowing from what shakespeare calls ‘your children yet unborn and unbegot’ in order to finance our present standard of living, and yet we can afford this macro-economic assistance to the kyrgyz republic. do you know what? in the long run i would have thought that kyrgyzstan’s economic prospects are better than ours. tiny and landlocked and war-torn as that republic is, it is pretty well positioned – the centre of economic gravity in the world is shifting, mile by mile, across the eurasian steppes in an eastward direction and the kyrgyz are not making the mistake that we are of lumbering themselves with a common agricultural policy, the 48-hour week, the social chapter and all the rest of it. the day may come when our descendants are coming as supplicants to the silk road khanates, because they will see where the wealth and power in the world lies. and when that happens, their curse will light upon this generation which squandered their inheritance.
mr president, colleagues, the digital single market has grown to become a large part of the single market itself and its completion is of major importance. we must build confidence and trust to overcome the remaining barriers to e-commerce. this report has focused on this important issue as well as growth, employment and smes in a digital single market and how to achieve a more competitive and inclusive europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work on this report. the ecr supported all of the compromises, which covered areas such as: a strategy to boost digital entrepreneurship, including the promotion of training for online traders and sme development programmes; the need to tackle cross-border delivery services, which are identified as one of the main major concerns of consumers; the need to strengthen ipr and to consider innovative business models and different licensing structures; and the importance of promoting technological developments for the education and protection of minors. i am supporting this report and i am happy to vote in favour.
mr president, it is always a pleasure to see you here, especially since so many of your colleagues have been off at this jamboree in oslo claiming the nobel prize on our behalf. isn’t there something slightly funny about – if i may digress for a moment – the european union claiming to be a cause, rather than a consequence of, the peace in europe built on the defeat of fascism, the spread of democracy and the nato alliance? i was a little bit offended by the suggestion that we owed peace in this continent not to the people who had voted for democratic pluralism, but to a small oligarchy. then again, that is the nobel prize committee for you. maybe next time it will be the economics prize that the eu gets. while we are on the subject of keeping the peace in europe, it might be worth thinking about a prize for the woman who liberated hundreds of millions of people from what must be reckoned in crude mathematical terms, the most murderous ideology devised by human intelligence, namely margaret thatcher. how about a nobel prize for her?
how do you follow that? the way you do it is actually to talk about the past agendas of the eu. do you remember the lisbon agenda, which was going to create the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010? how did that go? well, not very well. what about the europe 2020 strategy, which is supposed to reap the benefits of the digital single market by 2020? how is that going? well, so far, probably not quite as well as the lisbon agenda went. so how do we allot the benefits of the digital single market? what we need to do, rather than having reports in committees and structures and discussions and debate about it, is to get out of the way and let the digital entrepreneurs roll out their ideas. get out of the way and stop putting up barriers to the creativity of digital wealth. let me give you an example. a few years ago we had a roaming regulation. it may have seemed a nice idea, so that meps could have cheaper phone calls as they crossed international borders, but it has suppressed the profits of some of the mobile phone companies giving them less to invest in some of their digital structures. one of the reasons we complain about lack of digital structure and lack of courage is because we suppressed those profits. let us get out of the way and help the companies invest in digital infrastructure for a single market.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur on this report. the importance of the digital single market to the european economy has been comprehensively outlined in this report. however it is the issue of e-books and their accessibility in libraries that i wanted to raise today. currently, certain publishers are refusing to provide libraries with books in an e-format and this has huge implications as more and more books are only available in e-format. if we are not careful, an e-book apartheid could be created across the eu where those who can afford this will have access to books and those who cannot, will not. we have an opportunity just now to bring libraries and publishers together to create an interoperable system and where possible to make sure that the single market in this particular point actually works. so i think it is very important that we take that opportunity at this moment and make sure that we do not create e-book apartheid in the european union.
mr president, i want to ask why it is that, when 75% of the jobs in the eu and 99% of the companies in the eu and in my country – the united kingdom – are small businesses, that we spend so much time and energy on the big businesses and neglect – to our detriment – small businesses, which are the engines of job creation? this excellent report by my friend mr zahradil points the way forward for us to actually back those people who personally take risks. some of them mortgage their homes, get their families involved, have an idea and want to market it and turn it into job creation and wealth for that country, town or village. in this whole area, the role of the chambers of commerce in small towns and villages can play a very effective part in being able to access funds, finance, information and also the market. i think the zahradil report and the echeverria report, which we have just discussed, should come together, because one way forward in accessing markets, as we have heard, is through the single digital market.
mr president, what small and medium enterprises need above all is not credit or broadband but customers. the euro zone, according to the imf, is going to be in recession throughout 2013 and 2014. i wonder why we assume that things are going to improve after that, when we consider the demographic profile of europe. family trees have been turned on their heads in this part of the world. it takes eight great-grandparents to produce one great-grandson. in such a situation, why would you ever expect a country to be able to repay its outstanding loans and where are our entrepreneurs going to find markets? the answer, of course, is outside europe, in the parts of the world that are still booming. today we had a small example of it when we agreed to ratify the free trade agreement with colombia and peru, growing at about 6 % each this year. that is where the action is and yet, if you listened to the debate in this chamber, there was so much rancour, so much bitterness and so much politicisation attacking these two relatively democratic countries which are not, in the way that their neighbours are, reverting to ‘caudillismo’. you have to wonder sometimes at the grip on reality of the people in this chamber. unless we are buying and selling with the bits of the world that are growing, we are doomed.
mr president, it was reported today that by 2030 the markets in asia will overtake the markets of europe and the us, so quite clearly it is important that we encourage smes across the eu, remembering that these are the companies that actually create most of the jobs, as opposed to larger companies. we encourage the smes across the eu to be able to trade with the rest of the world to create wealth locally, but also to create wealth locally here in europe and also to spread that wealth across the world. at the same time, we should not forget that we should also think about how we can help those entrepreneurs, those smes in other countries that want to trade with the eu. one of the problems i find when i go to many of the developing countries is that they say to me: we have the goods, we have the services, we want to sell into the eu market; the problem we face is that we have these tariff barriers – or sometimes these non-tariff barriers – and we have real problems accessing the eu market. let us give the commission some credit here. they have set up a unit to help entrepreneurs from other countries who want to sell into the eu and we should facilitate that as much as possible, because if we can encourage entrepreneurs around the world to create wealth in their own countries, in their own communities, and to take people out of poverty, we have gone a long way to preventing some of the problems of why people want to leave those countries.
mr president, in the 1980s, when i was studying the digital world, one of the things that i found interesting was that an american academic proposed at one stage that maybe one should drop lots of ibm computers into the soviet union and encourage people to communicate with each other as a way of bringing about freedom. at the time he was laughed out of hand, but in some ways this academic was probably quite prophetic. in fact one of the factors that people often cited in the fall of regimes in those days was that people looked at the tv, saw that those on the other side of the iron curtain enjoyed a higher standard of wealth and started to question the legitimacy of their own regimes. we saw this expressed in a more modern way with the role that facebook and twitter played in the arab spring and the uprising of those local communities. but, while we are right to want to promote digital freedom outside the eu, we should look closer at home. we should look at some of the things that our own governments and the eu are doing. let us look at the programme looking to collect communications data of citizens. let us look at the uk’s intercept programme which is going to collect all the data of uk citizens, at first in a central database, but now in its new form in a distributed database. we have to look close to home to make sure before we preach about digital freedom worldwide.
mr president, one of the important roles that we often underestimate in relation to fdi is the ability to spread wealth. it is not only a question of capital flowing from a company investing in a country; there is also the role of the goods and materials which are transferred as well as knowledge. these are very important factors which are quite often overlooked when we look at the role of foreign direct investment. one of the things that we should also look at is actually this common policy, because some countries which are more free-trade-oriented than others say that one of their main criticisms of the common trade policy is that, quite often, we can only go as far or as fast as the most protectionist country will allow us to go when it comes to signing trade agreements. let us hope, as we move towards this common investment policy, that those more protectionist and less open-looking countries do not hold back the more open trading countries and countries which want to invest worldwide. let us make sure that this is not an excuse for protectionism on the part of those more protectionist countries.
mr president, the single market is a great success story that needs to be completed. it is one that even many eurosceptic brits support, so i now congratulate the 25 countries that have now enabled inventors to access automatic protection throughout the european union. the language-based resistance of spain and italy to this policy is regrettable: three working languages is enough and will work. the process will reduce costs and improve efficiencies, bringing a huge benefit to businesses that reply on ip rights. they can already rely on an eu common trademark policy and will now be able to depend on a common patent policy as well. so i welcome the compromise, which limits the role of the ecj in areas of substantial patent law, as not all patent applications will be pan-european. so it is critical that we ensure that national courts still retain their right to interpret national law in areas where european law is not applicable. the aim overall is to create a european single market where citizens need the scale that 500 million consumers can bring to grow their businesses. it is not to impose these changes when none is required. overall, my group and myself supported this proposal.
mr president, throughout the last few months i have spoken a number of times about the importance of an association agreement between the eu and central america and i firmly believe that it offers a good deal for both parties. trade, of course, is the main element of this agreement and will address obstacles to trade in goods. it also offers much more than this. for example, political dialogue and cooperation in areas of shared interest, for example in the fields of security, counter-terrorism and human rights. the trade element of the agreement can also drive reform in central america and create an environment where stability and prosperity lead to improved human rights standards. but whilst recognising these benefits, however, i am also aware of the potential threat to the single market from unfair competition, which is why i have voted in favour of this bilateral safeguard clause. it is very important to highlight that this protection measure should only be temporary in nature and be used only to avoid the threat of injury, or injury itself, to eu industries from the surge in imports from central america, specifically in the trade of bananas.
mr president, i voted in favour of this free trade agreement today and welcome the liberalisation of trade with the south american countries. however, we must also make it clear that the european parliament has only ratified this agreement on condition that the human rights concerns in the report are addressed. the safeguards that the european parliament has negotiated are indeed unprecedented in any free trade agreement and we need to ensure that we follow developments in these countries closely. that said, i welcome the opportunity this free trade agreement brings to eu businesses at a time when growth is our top priority. in particular, the deal offers great benefits to the scottish whisky industry and supports the growth of a key sector of the scottish economy in an important emerging market. scotland currently exports whisky to colombia and peru to the tune of gdp 42 million per year. this agreement would end the 15% tariff on exports to colombia over the next ten years and overnight would put an end to a 9% tariff for peru. this is a very nice christmas present for an industry which produces a superb product. could i suggest to colleagues that a bottle of laphroaig, or indeed a bottle of bunnahabhain, would make an excellent early christmas present to your friends and family?
mr president, i do apologise; i see that i am down to speak on this agreement while in actual fact i really wanted to speak on the report on age-related diseases for women. so i would appreciate your indulgence if i could decline the right to speak here but speak at a later stage. thank you, i appreciate that. can i also give you one word of advice, mr president, following on from my colleague mr lyon’s intervention. of course, bushmills whiskey from northern ireland is really the best!!
mr president, the united nations has called the current global aging trend a situation without parallel in the history of humanity. the world is getting older. in my constituency of northern ireland there are more people over the age of 50 than under the age of 19. in the next 20 years the number of people over the age of 50 will increase by more than 30%. an aging demographic like this carries significant consequences for men and women across the eu, not only for work and family life but also for health and social care. aging and the prevention of age-related diseases are not solely women’s issues but issues for men and women equally and therefore must be addressed as such. dementia, cancer, cardiovascular disease and a range of other medical issues can affect us all as we get older. it is vital that we have effective policies in place across the eu to improve and enhance the lives of older people and to ensure that adequate health and social care is provided for now and in the future.
mr president, there is no doubt that anti-microbial resistance is a threat to the agriculture industry, but it also requires a measured approach – an approach which should be tailored to the needs of the industry, greater awareness of products on the market and the need for more money to be invested in research and development to investigate the threat of such resistance. i also believe that pillar 2 funds in the cap should be used to increase the interaction between farmers and vets, constructing animal health plans which will reduce the reliance on antibiotics and vaccines. simple solutions, like improved housing facilities and improvements in animal husbandry to help early detection of problems, will reduce the use of these products. i believe the solution can be found by working with farmers, vets and scientists. it is also important that regulations are enforced across all member states. we should not have a two-tier system in the european union.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote. kyrgyzstan is regarded as the most democratic country in central asia and certainly deserves support. however, giving macro-financial assistance to countries outside the european neighbourhood policy means that the eu has no say in how that money is spent. the current debate on the future of the eu budget, and in particular the future of funding for wales, has highlighted issues of democracy and accountability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on providing macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. it is right that the eu should provide, under strict circumstances, assistance to allow economic development in this country.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that countries who are making genuine efforts towards democratic reform should receive assistance and aid to support that transition in concert with imf programmes; and to prevent economic destabilisation.
in writing. − during my time as an mep, i have continuously called for better labelling so that welsh consumers are able to make an informed decision about their purchases. i hope that the new energy star labelling scheme, which i voted in favour of establishing today, will allow offices to choose equipment which contributes to ambitious energy efficiency targets. last year, the welsh government launched a national energy efficiency and savings plan which forms part of wales’ target of achieving a 30 % cut in carbon emissions by 2020. to achieve this, and even higher targets, we all need to change our behaviour. better labelling gives us the tools and understanding to do this.
in writing. − the energy-efficiency labelling programme is an important initiative of the eu and i welcome these amendments.
in writing. − i welcome this updating of legislation on the use of energy-efficiency labelling programs for office equipment. the war against climate change will be won on the basis of many small battles.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it adapts the energy star regulation in line with a new agreement between the eu and the us. the new agreement now provides greater clarity regarding the respective responsibilities of the commission and member states with respect to the enforcement of the eu energy star programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this first reading agreement, which adapts the energy star regulation in line with the eu-us agreement adopted in october. with a 20 % reduction in energy consumption by 2020 a target for the eu, it is essential that the energy performance of office equipment is improved. i fully support the agreement as a whole and especially the european parliament’s amendments that encourage regional and local authorities to apply the provisions.
in writing. − the commission is looking at the obstacles to a fully functioning digital single market and how they could be overcome. at this time of economic crisis this is vital work. businesses in wales have been severely hampered by lack of access to high speed broadband connections. as a result they could not take advantage of the possibilities of the digital economy. i welcome the commission’s announcement of an action plan to strengthen and facilitate the development of ict infrastructure. this will help in terms of job creation but also in terms of education and training. it is essential for rural and urban areas. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the digital single market which is focused on growth and employment, promoting smes, building trust in europe’s digital economy and overcoming the remaining barriers to a more competitive single market. i fully support the measures which cover the inconsistent enforcement of rules in member states, a strategy to boost digital entrepreneurship, sme development programmes, the need to tackle cross-border delivery services, the need for different licensing structures and the importance of protection for minors. i hope that this legislation will go further than its predecessors in benefitting the online consumer community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which deals with important issues. digital technology has a vital role to play in reinvigorating the european economy and efforts need to be made at both eu and national level. the scottish government published scotland’s digital future: a strategy for scotland last march and today’s report complements the work being done in my own country.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the digital revolution has also transformed the way businesses work, and the impact of the internet economy has been enormous in the last years. the gains and possibilities for economic growth, the creation of employment, consumer opportunities, variety of products, affordable prices, and possibilities for companies are immense. figures clearly state so: in some g8 countries the internet has accounted for 20 % of economic growth and 25 % of job growth in the last five years. for every job that is lost in the world ‘off-line’, the online sector creates 2.6 new jobs. companies that exploit the full potential of the internet create more than twice as many jobs as the companies that do not. if measured as a sector, internet-related consumption and expenditure is now bigger than agriculture or energy. and it will continue growing.
in writing. − this resolution, which i fully support, aims to develop policy and strengthen practice in creating a real digital single market in the european union whilst focusing on key areas such as vat and intellectual property rights. highlighting the digital market’s significance in improving european competitiveness, this resolution recognises the importance of the internet economy and the need to adapt to its rapid developments to be prepared for future challenges. another feature of this resolution is the pursuit of connecting with smes by working towards creating a favourable environment for better productivity and employment in europe. furthermore, it seeks to include measures such as a code of eu online rights, providing more information for consumers thus creating more benefits for eu citizens. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of our economy in wales. plaid cymru’s policy is to provide support for them to grow and create new employment. the one wales government successfully used european funding to set up schemes to maintain jobs and to provide training for those at risk. procurement policies can also help local businesses. however, unfair trading practices from third countries would have a negative affect on smes. therefore, whilst not objecting to support for smes to be active beyond member state borders in principle, i abstained on this initiative report.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the recommendations made in it are aimed at improving the quality of information available to smes and micro enterprises about funding opportunities and trade-finance instruments that exist at both the national and eu level. it is hoped that by receiving assistance of this nature, smes and micro enterprises will overcome barriers to trade that hamper eu businesses in accessing third country markets. furthermore, it is expected that an additional tailor-made import/export facility will enable them to fully tap in to the growth and job-creation potential resulting from their internationalisation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it addresses some of the challenges smes face in trading outside the single market, such as lack of financing and difficulty in accessing information. the issue is particularly important as european smes account for 75% of jobs in the private sector and have created 80% of all new jobs in the past five years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its overall conclusion that the internet should be open, neutral, governed by the rule of law and in no way used for the repression of human rights. i do, however, feel that the primary actor in this matter is and should remain to be the member state, and that only when these objectives cannot be achieved through the action of member states is action at eu level appropriate.
in writing. − the growth in new technologies has had a positive effect on people’s lives. we are able to communicate with our friends and relatives across the world as well as completing many of our day to day chores on the internet, which saves time and hassle. i voted in favour of the report on a digital freedom strategy in eu foreign policy because i believe it is essential and fair that these benefits are extended to those living outside europe. uncensored access to the internet, mobile phones and social networks offers the possibility for free speech, something which we in wales can take for granted but which is exciting and new for others, as we saw in many countries during the arab spring.
in writing. − this report rightly highlights the importance of digital media in securing freedoms around the world and i welcome its content.
in writing. − a quick scan of some events in the world shows that the struggle for human rights has moved online. prisons are increasingly populated by dissidents confronted with their own internet and mobile communications, compromised by the authorities. iran continues the building of an electronic curtain, which will eventually cut off the iranians from the world wide web through the creation of a ‘halal internet’. china is similarly cutting its citizens off from the open internet with the great electronic firewall. mass censorship violates citizens’ rights and narrows business opportunities. plans are on the table to make anonymous blogging in china illegal. the ben ali government of tunisia was, and the al-assad regime in syria is, well known for their sophisticated use of technologies against citizens. the syrian electronic army is now subject to ad hoc eu sanctions. generally speaking, the fight for control and power by authoritarian regimes involves a growing ict component. promoting and defending human rights then means enabling people to circumvent mass censorship or to evade cyber attacks by their own governments. while training human rights defenders, journalists and dissidents should improve their safety online, it also creates a new set of sensitivities and a potentially dangerous dependency on the accuracy and quality of the guidance.
in writing. − the single market is the one area that even british eurosceptics admit brings value-added. 70% of european trade is in services, and services remain subject to barriers to trade. the prime ministers of the uk and eleven other member states called in march for a solemn effort to complete the single market - in particular, the digital single market. liberalising digital services would increase european gdp by 4%, according to a report last year by copenhagen economics. it is not difficult to imagine the benefits that would accrue to citizens and consumers alike if the continent was an online market place which consumers could trust by virtue of it ensuring transparency and internet governance, cyber-security and protection from fraud, rogue traders and identity theft, and the protection of consumer rights. but, to bring these services to the citizen, business must have a legal framework in which intellectual property can be deployed cross-border to create a digitalized market which fosters innovation. it is only through innovation that real growth – and thus real jobs – can endure.
in writing. − when the lisbon treaty came into force, it gave the eu full competence on investment policy. this should mean that all bilateral investment treaties (bit) which member states currently maintain with third countries will need to be transformed into eu investment treaties in order to be covered under eu law. however, the commission has proposed several different possibilities depending on when the bit came into force. this creates a dual system of on the one hand member states’ bits, on the other hand differently structured eu-wide investment treaties with third countries. i voted against the report as it does not promote transparency in the eu. in wales we benefit greatly from agreements between the eu and third countries in trade and in many other areas. i want to ensure that these agreements are properly managed as stated in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i welcome the following statement that was agreed by the institutions in relation to this agreement: ‘the fact that this regulation, including recitals 17, 18 and 19, provides for the use of the procedures referred to in regulation (eu) no 182/2011 does not constitute a precedent as to future regulations allowing the union to empower the member states under article 2(1) tfeu to legislate and adopt legally binding acts in areas of union exclusive competence. furthermore, in this regulation, the use of the advisory as opposed to the examination procedure shall not be considered as setting a precedent for future regulations establishing the framework for the common commercial policy.’
in writing. − this report addresses the problems facing foreign investors as bilateral investment treaties are transitioned under one eu investment policy. it balances the legal certainty of bits whilst allowing the commission flexibility to develop an eu investment policy. most importantly it acknowledges that new bits should be compatible with other external policy objectives, such as human rights and development. this was a key issue for me and therefore i voted for this report.
in writing. − solidarity is one of the values of the eu. regional and cohesion policy from which wales benefits so much is a reflection of that. i believe that it is important we show this same solidarity to our neighbours, one of whom is georgia, a country which faced economic collapse following the fall of the soviet empire. i voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to georgia. as they are included in the european neighbourhood policy, the eu will be able to make sure this money is invested in the best possible way to develop georgia’s economy for the benefit of its citizens.
in writing. − the georgian economy has been affected by the international financial crisis since the third quarter of 2008, with declining output, falling fiscal revenues and rising external financing needs. at the international donors’ conference held on 22 october 2008, the international community pledged support to georgia’s economic recovery in line with the joint needs assessment carried out by the united nations and the world bank. the union announced that it would provide up to eur 500 million as financial assistance to georgia and we are now fulfilling that commitment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendment to the report on the european maritime safety agency. i firmly believed that this parliament ought to have rejected the council position. i, like many of my constituents, shudder at the thought of enlarging the sphere of influence of any agency of the european union, given their track record of failure and disadvantage to the interests of my constituents. emsa is no different. it is clear that emsa is going down a similar route to so many other agencies – starting off with good intentions and based on co-operation, in order to provide member states of the commission with technical and scientific assistance in the field of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by ships. yet now comes the move for more power, more influence. that is a concept i object to in principle, and therefore i supported the amendment tabled by the member for the north west of england.
in writing. − we are only too aware in wales of the need for the maritime safety agency. the sea empress oil tanker disaster in the milford haven waterway in 1996 spilt 72 000 tons of crude oil into the sea. the pembrokeshire coast is one of the most sensitive marine conservation areas in europe. it was the twelfth largest oil spillage in the world at the time and the effects were catastrophic. most of the birds in the area died and the whole coast was contaminated by oil. i voted for this report because i strongly support extending the remit of the maritime safety agency. with more powers to prevent as well as cope with the effects of environmental disasters like the one in pembrokeshire, the agency will become more effective. in addition to that, it would mean more training for seafarers and more coordination between neighbouring countries.
in writing. − whilst the eu’s agencies are under critical scrutiny in the current economic climate, it is clear that emsa is one such body which deserves our support. the agency was established in the wake of the erika disaster and it will enable the eu to act swiftly in the event of further accidents. my own country is highly dependent on a clean marine environment so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up in response to the pollution caused by the loss of the oil tanker erika. it started operating in march 2003. this is the fourth modification to the founding regulation. the agency helps to ensure maritime safety and security and prevent marine pollution from ships, including by monitoring and assessing implementation of relevant eu law. much of its work involves advice to commission and/or member states. it is generally recognised to be an effective, well-run organisation offering member states significant savings by operating at a european level with the economies of scale this generates.
in writing. − this new regulation would allow the european maritime safety agency to monitor, prevent and tackle pollution caused by ships and from offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities. emsa will provide pollution response action at the request of any member state and it can assist those third countries sharing a sea basin with the eu. the point at issue here is that the agency’s powers will be broadened to new areas. it will be entitled to intervene, for example, to tackle pollution caused by offshore oil and gas installations and not just pollution caused by ships, as is the case now. the british conservatives are concerned about any extension of the agency’s powers in the analysis of the safety of mobile offshore installations. it is also important for the uk to ensure that the extension of the agency’s marine pollution response capabilities to cover offshore installations is at the request of an affected state only, and that any explicit involvement in the analysis of the safety of these installations is limited.
in writing. − important questions still remain as to the legality of the current proposal and accordingly i joined my group in voting against this report.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for unitary patent protection as it should reduce business costs and particularly assist smes.
in writing. − in these straitened economic times it is all the more important to implement initiatives that encourage growth and entrepreneurship, which is why i voted in favour of the creation of a unitary patent protection system. under the current system, businesses and inventors must navigate a bureaucratic and expensive process that requires their patent to be translated and authenticated by all 27 eu member states, costing about eur 32 000. when this legislation comes into effect, however, individuals and businesses will be able to submit their applications in any eu language, and the patent will be valid in any of the participating eu member states. this simplified procedure will help stimulate innovation and growth, and will be of particular benefit to smes, which will now enjoy a much more cost-effective way of registering patents.
in writing. − i supported this report, which establishes an eu-wide patenting system and will allow inventors to submit a single patent which will apply across 25 eu member states. the legislation should not only simplify the european patenting procedure, but also greatly reduce the cost of filing a patent in the eu. currently patent protection across all 27 member states is estimated to cost eur 32,000 per patent (compared with usd 1,850 in the us); this is expected to fall to less than eur 1000 once the measures come into force. under the current system, translation into all eu languages represents one of the major costs when filing a patent, but this legislation should reduce the need for translation and also allows some smes, universities, individuals and non-profit organisations to claim the cost of translation back from the european patent office. the legislation does not change the law on what can and cannot be patented, but it should make the eu patenting system more accessible and put all eu inventors on a level playing field. these proposals should help facilitate innovation in the european economy, which is vital to get the economy growing again.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the aim of achieving unitary patent protection within the eu has been pursued by the member states for nearly half a century and at last we appear to have achieved our goal.
in writing. − i voted for this report because at present the translation costs for patent applications can be as high as eur 85 per page, making the european patent 10 times more expensive that a us patent. cutting translation costs through the use of machine-generated translations or reimbursement of fees would be of benefit to individuals and smes and contribute to the overall success of the unitary patent.
in writing. − the single market is a great success that needs to be completed. i congratulate the 25 countries that have now enabled inventors to access automatic protection throughout the european union. the resistance of spain and italy to this policy is regrettable. the process will reduce costs and improve efficiencies, bringing a huge benefit to businesses that rely on intellectual property rights. they can already rely on a common trademark policy; they will now be able to depend on a common patent policy as well. i welcome the compromise which limits the role of the ecj in areas of substantive patent law; as not all patent applications will be pan-european, it is critical that we ensure that national courts retain their right to interpret national law in areas where european law is not applicable. the aim is to create a european single market where citizens need the scale that 500 million consumers can bring to grow their businesses. it is not to impose changes where none is required. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. − i supported this proposal in which the rapporteur expresses the view that an efficient patent system in europe can significantly contribute to achieving growth through innovation. european businesses, in particular smes, need such tools to face the current economic crisis and remain globally competitive.
in writing. − i voted for this report because having a specialised patent court able to deliver high-quality decisions in full compliance with eu law is critical for the success of the unitary patent. it will also help reduce legal costs for patentees and therefore be good for business.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report, the european parliament has deprived itself of power and the eu is effectively waiving its competence in favour of the european patent office: a non-eu institution. this is clearly a negative development for eu citizens. there are also concerns regarding the substance of the patent law. as it stands, within the eu there are several limitations to the effects of patents in the area of biotechnology. however, there is little guarantee that the epo will respect national or eu legislation. this could prove detrimental to farmers. i voted against the package on patents as i want to protect the interests of welsh citizens. it should be the democratically-elected legislators that have control over the issue, not patent lawyers.
in writing. − in october we saw the launch of mend – ‘mind, exercise, nutrition... do it!’ – in cardiff, with welsh rugby stars juggling bananas. fruit is an important point of a healthy diet, so the banana trade is important to us too. trade agreements exist between central america and the eu. the agreement provides for the reduction and finally for the elimination of customs tariffs in bilateral trade between the partners. the agreement also contains a safeguard clause fine-tuned to the banana sector, so that no other industrial or manufacturing sector in central america would be able to flood european markets. i abstained on this report, as it does not mention how environmental standards will be upheld. similarly, labour standards will be monitored but are not part of the criteria for investigation and sanction.
in writing. − i voted for this clause. the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause that provides for the possibility to reinstate the most-favoured nation (mfn) customs duty rate when, as a result of the trade liberalisation derived from the agreement, imports take place in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the union producers of like or competitive products. the agreement also foresees a stabilisation mechanism for bananas according to which preferential customs duties can be suspended if a certain annual import volume is reached and is applicable until 1 january 2020. both of them need to be transposed into eu law to become operational, and procedurally, since the lisbon treaty came into force, safeguard clauses negotiated with third countries and regions are subject to the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − this report placed particular emphasis on respect for international labour and environmental standards, and the involvement of civil society including trade unions in monitoring the process of trade liberalisation to ensure these core standards are promoted and upheld. the report also calls for regular monitoring and reporting on the development of employment conditions, organic produce, fair trade produce, and the impact on small producers and cooperatives. for these reasons i voted for the report.
in writing. − i voted against this agreement as i share the concerns of many across europe, and in wales, my own constituency, that it will fail to improve people’s lives in the countries concerned, and may indeed have a negative effect. i also share the concerns of human rights groups, churches, ngos, trades unions and others that this agreement is not the right means by which to bring proper sustainable development to this region, in a way that is equitable and will help the poorest. we are grateful to those ngos who work tirelessly to improve people’s lives in central america. in this context i want to mention the wales nicaragua solidarity campaign for its work in promoting social and economic justice and fair trade over many years, in partnership with local organisations.
in writing. − i voted for this report which: stresses that social cohesion is a priority objective of regional cooperation policy; insists that social cohesion can only be achieved by reducing poverty, inequality, social exclusion and all forms of discrimination through proper education, including vocational training; and stresses that social inequality has not been sufficiently reduced in recent years and that public safety is a matter of great concern in central america.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the agreement leads to the establishment of a new framework for trade and investment that is an improvement on the existing one based on a unilateral and temporary system of generalised tariff preferences that is subject to revision. the agreement establishes a broader, reciprocal and negotiated scheme that will allow for the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods and services, public tendering and investment promotion. this will create a stable and predictable framework based on mutual benefit which provides the legal security and certainty needed to encourage increased trade and investment.
in writing. − i voted for this recommendation because of the economic and trading benefits this agreement will bring to both the eu and central america; and as a method to improve human rights standards across the region.
in writing. − in october we saw the launch of mend – ‘mind, exercise, nutrition... do it!’ – in cardiff, with welsh rugby stars juggling bananas. fruit is an important point of a healthy diet, so the banana trade is important to us too. trade agreements exist between colombia/peru and the eu. the agreement provides for the reduction and finally for the elimination of customs tariffs in bilateral trade between the partners. the agreement also contains a safeguard clause fine-tuned to the banana sector, so that no other industrial or manufacturing sector in colombia and peru would be able to flood european markets. i abstained on this report, as it does not mention how environmental standards will be upheld. similarly, labour standards will be monitored but are not part of the criteria for investigation and sanction.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution. a bilateral safeguard instrument is designed to provide a safety net where, as a consequence of the trade liberalisation provided for by the fta, industry needs time to adjust to the new conditions. it will therefore only be applicable for a transitional period of ten years after the entry into force of the agreement, or slightly longer for products which are liberalised over more than ten years.
in writing. − our rapporteur placed particular emphasis on the involvement of civil society, including labour rights organisations and trade unions, in the monitoring of the agreement as a whole and the stabilisation mechanism. the report also strengthens the role of the parliament in monitoring and reporting on the impact of the stabilisation mechanism. because of this i voted for the report.
in writing. − i rejected the eu-colombia fta. the european parliament has previously demanded progress in this area and despite the fact that the situation is no better, with improvements negligible and continuing assassinations and disappearances, the eu continues to push the free trade agreement. colombia continues to be the most dangerous place to be a trade unionist, and i for one remain unconvinced that the colombian government is trying to match its words with its actions. that is why i have voted against the fta.
in writing. − with my colleagues i voted against the eu colombia/peru trade agreement. there are concerns that the trade agreement with the two countries could have negative impacts on their development and on human rights. colombia is the most dangerous place in the world to be a trade union member. money laundering will also be made easier by this agreement. i know from correspondence from constituents in wales of their concerns regarding eu trade policy. europe should use its influence to promote a more ethical foreign policy in its overseas relations. we would like to see a very different trade agreement – one that deals with the real challenges facing these countries and their peoples at economic level and in terms of human rights.
in writing. − i voted against this agreement because i do not believe that trade advantages should be promoted over human rights.
in writing. − this trade agreement has achieved more for binding human rights standards and clear monitoring procedures than anything that has come before. however, i do not think colombia has adequately satisfied the criteria to benefit from such a commercially viable agreement while trade unionists have faced such treatment. it is too early to abandon the ‘carrot’ in the carrot-and-stick approach of using trade policy to improve human rights standards with colombia. for this reason, i voted against this report.
in writing. − in an era of economic crisis, the eu must ensure that free trade is defended and extended. that is why the fta with peru and colombia, both advanced democracies which share our values, is a critical and welcome step. protectionism is, sadly, alive and well in emerging economies, including brazil, russia, india and china, who are stepping up unfair trade measures, increasing the risks of another global recession and damaging european industry. in south america, argentina was the chief culprit. so it is to be welcomed that europe has succeeded in securing a deal in more open south american countries. the car, chemical, textile and telecoms sectors are ready to benefit, and european business will save eur 250 million that it currently pays in costs. the uk spirits industry is particularly keen to compete in these markets. for the peruvians and colombians, practically all their exports to europe will be tariff free, their economies will grow, and the principles of freedom will be deepened a little more. let us continue to the next big prize: the eu-us free trade deal.
in writing. − i voted against the ratification of this trade agreement due to unresolved concerns about the human and labour rights situation in colombia and the ongoing persecution of trade unionists. colombia is widely recognised as the most dangerous place in the world to be a trade unionist with more than 225 murdered there in the last five years. the perpetrators have evaded prosecution in the majority of cases and there have been wide-spread accusations of corruption in the judicial process. as such, while we recognise that measures on human rights have been included in the agreement, labour meps felt that insufficient progress has been made to justify ratifying the agreement at this time; we are supported in this view by a number of colombian civil society organisations. furthermore, we felt that ratification would remove any incentive for the colombian government to work to improve the situation. although it has been argued that the agreement will give the eu more influence in this area, a labour action plan instigated as part of the us-colombia agreement has not seen any discernable improvement in the situation of trade unionists in the country.
in writing. − in this, the european year for active ageing, it is very important that we address the chronic and disabling diseases which particularly affect women due to their longer life expectancy. i voted in favour of this proposal because it proposes action including an eu strategy on diabetes, better preventative healthcare for older women, research on elder abuse and the creation of a women’s health research institute within horizon 2020. cardiovascular disease was the main cause of death of over 5 000 women in wales in 2010. the most common types of cancer in women in wales are breast cancer (31%), colorectal cancer (12%) and lung cancer (12%). the life expectancy of women in wales is 81.7 years and attention has been drawn in recent weeks to problems relating to care for the elderly in hospitals and in care homes. this proposed strategic plan of research into healthcare for women, and a research institute, would help us in dealing with many of these issues, and welsh expertise could assist the work of the institute.
in writing. − i voted for this report which among other important requests calls on member states to ensure that welfare protection schemes, including health insurance, take account of unemployment and social difficulties affecting women so that they are not left unprotected.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it recommends initiatives to achieve more effective prevention of illnesses and improvement of women’s health. the european population is ageing to an ever greater extent. 2012 is the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the aim is to promote healthy ageing. despite women living longer than men, the gap in healthy life expectancy between men and women is narrow. women therefore need sufficient access to health care and home help to enable them to enjoy equal rights and live independent lives.
in writing. − although i have reservations about the possible future use of public-private partnerships which are mentioned in this report, i voted in favour of the report as the overriding issue of antimicrobial resistance is an important one for agriculture.
in writing. − when used properly, antibiotics are an effective way of dealing with diseases and infections in both humans and animals. but in recent years, resistance caused by over-use has become a problem. resistance to antibiotics means that common health problems become less treatable and more serious, causing risk to both animal and human health. as farmers in wales will know, maintaining a high level of hygiene and using proper feed to prevent disease is the best way to manage this problem. veterinary medicine should be used as little as possible. but it is easy to see why prescribing medicine is an easy solution and how the problem has got out of control. now is the time to put a plan in place. i voted in favour of a report on anti-microbial resistance which calls for the responsible use of medicines in farm animals. an action plan by the european commission does not go far enough. the welsh government must take up this issue more thoroughly through the wales animal health and welfare strategy steering group. we must fully understand the scale of the problem, so that we can address the issue and maintain our high standards of food safety, animal health and welfare.
in writing. − i voted against separating veterinarians’ right to prescribe from the right to sell antimicrobials as i consider that this could adversely affect vets in rural areas, including much of scotland.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. since the discovery of penicillin in the 1930s, antimicrobials have revolutionised medical and veterinary practice, leading to significant reductions in the mortality rate from a wide range of serious and often fatal bacterial infections while paving the way for innovative invasive surgeries to enter widespread use. the extraordinary medicinal progress of the antibiotic era, however, risks being undermined by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is one of the most serious threats to public health worldwide – and tackling it is currently the single highest priority for the european agencies working on medicines and disease control. antimicrobial-resistant bacteria are estimated to cause about 25 000 deaths annually across europe. i voted for this report because it advocates a coordinated, multisectoral policy approach. it calls for immediate concerted action, including legislation, and highlights key issues such as the prudent prescription of medicine for use with humans and animals; development of alternative treatments; and the need for the commission to bring forward legislation to identify the most critical antibiotics for humans – and limit the use of these in the veterinary sector.
in writing. − antibiotic resistance remains a major threat to public health around the world, and for the large part, the cause is misuse of antibiotics. it increases healthcare costs, causes people to stay in hospital for longer, results in treatment failures, and sometimes death. an estimated 25 000 people die each year in the eu from antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections, so this own-initiative report is relevant after the recent commission action plan against the rising threats from antimicrobial resistance. if it continues to rise it will threaten our ability to carry out what is now routine medical practice which relies on antimicrobials to protect patients from infection, for example in surgical prophylaxis. due to the borderless nature of infectious diseases, it is therefore important that measures to limit the rising threat to human health from the use of antimicrobials are put in place across europe. as a doctor, i understand that this problem cannot be resolved by one simple solution. a multifaceted approach is required that incorporates more prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine, by the development of alternatives for treatment and new antimicrobials and greater international cooperation.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistant bacteria are estimated to be responsible for around 25,000 deaths across the eu every year. they are a major threat to global public health and tackling them is one of the highest priorities for european health agencies. i therefore supported this report, which calls for: more prudent use of antibiotics in humans and animals; measures aimed at reducing the use of antibiotics in animals, especially of those that are deemed critical for humans; and greater monitoring and reporting of the prescribing and use of antimicrobials. while resistance to existing antimicrobials is increasing, development of new antimicrobials has been minimal, so i am also pleased that this report calls for encouragement to be given for the development of new or alternative treatments.
rapporteur. − mr president, my main responsibility was the other sections budget, and i wanted to start off by saying a few ‘thank yous’, as i do not think we say ‘thank you’ often enough. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, mr la via, my shadows, the budget committee secretariat, my own group secretariat and cath witcombe, who works in my office. they have all worked very hard and very long hours. hopefully they find it worthwhile. our budget process started in january of this year. at the outset we set ourselves a target of having an increase in parliament’s budget for next year of 1.9% including the costs of croatia. i am delighted to say that we have been able to achieve that. we have achieved that figure by freezing all members’ allowances, the daily allowance and the office allowance; we have cut the travel budget again; we have reduced the amount to be spent on buildings, such as the house of european history; and we have made many other savings as well. i am sure colleagues will be pleased to know that the increase in operational costs for the european parliament’s budget next year is only 0.6%. therefore parliament will have a real-terms cut in its budget for next year. of course, colleagues will want to know that we will continue to make savings in the future. that is why we have established a joint working group between the committee on budgets and the bureau to identify savings: some short-term savings, but also some long-term structural savings for the future. the working group is working hard on that at the moment and will shortly come forward with some recommendations. i also wanted to say a few words, of course, on the other institutions’ budgets. at the start of the process, the council was saying that it wanted an across-the-board freeze for all institutions for the 2013 budget. we on parliament’s side believe that was a mistake. we believe that all the institutions are different, and that all the institutions have different needs and will require different budgets and different increases for next year. i personally sat down with each of the institutions and went through their own individual budgets with them. after the discussions i pushed them towards a figure of 1.9%, as the parliament figure is going to be. at the end of the day we were able to come to an agreement between the institutions and parliament that their increases would be around 1.9% including the costs of croatia; that excludes perhaps three of the institutions. unfortunately, however the, council still did not agree the issue of the 1.7% salary increase which parliament believes should go into the reserves. i am pleased to say, however, that we have now reached a compromise whereby parliament’s figures for the other institutions will be agreed without the 1.7% increase for salaries, which is awaiting a decision by the court of justice. however, we have agreed, as one of the three joint statements, that an amending budget will be brought forward if the court of justice allows that 1.7% increase. i am pleased to say that all the institutions apart from two, the ombudsman and the external action service, will have an increase next year of 1.9% or even lower. so i think that does demonstrate to this house, and to the wider public, that all the eu institutions including this house have done their very best to act in a responsible way in terms of next year’s budget. we all know that these are difficult economic and financial times. we wanted to be responsible, and i believe we have been responsible. but in addition to that, as well as making savings, we have been able to ensure that we have not damaged the effectiveness of this house, of the institutions and of members of this house. so all in all i think it is a good budget and i hope members will support it and vote for it in tomorrow’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this draft amending budget no. 6 was, in my view, always the council’s problem. i recognise that the cyprus presidency’s solution, whilst no means ideal, was at least pragmatic and realistic. but what we now need to ensure is that we do not get into a payment crisis of this nature again. to do that, first we need systems in place to scrutinise and control estimates from the member states and, secondly, we are going to need greater flexibility in the way that we manage the budget in the future. but turning now, if i may, to the budget for 2013, we in the european conservatives and reformists have been calling for restraint in the size of the budget. we do agree that there is an urgent need to invest in jobs and growth, but what we do not agree with is that this, of necessity, means increasing the size of the budget. we simply cannot be in denial about the level of debt in many of the donor states. for that reason, you cannot go on increasing the burden of cost to those contributing states. nor can we expect taxpayers in those countries – people who are already experiencing tough times – to understand why it is that we want a bigger budget. indeed, i would argue that with 25 million people out of work and the european economy stagnating, those traditional spending programmes, the very systems which should be creating jobs and growth, are not doing the job. you only have to look around europe today to learn that big public expenditure and large government deficits do not seem to be providing the solution. so is it not time we in this parliament began to focus our fire on better spending of the money we already have, before we resort to demanding more from the taxpayer? (applause)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the negotiation of the annual eu budget has become a farce. last year parliament, the council and the commission signed up to an increase of just over 2 % for 2012. yet last october the commission was asking for no less than eur 9 billion of extra cash and this house has joined the cry for more money. this is a 9 % increase, not a 2 % increase. of course last year’s agreement allowed for an increase in the legal obligations the eu could enter into, the so-called commitments. but this fact seemed to go unnoticed by the heads of state. the fact is that we face the same situation for 2013, as the legal obligations are now growing by up to eur 151 billion and who picks up the tab? the taxpayers. frontline services are being cut in member states while the eu gets on with its own wasteful agenda. mr cameron, please do not come back claiming victory this time. it would be a serious insult to your people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)
blue-card question. – mr president, i listened with interest to ms andreasen, who was once again railing about waste and the cost to constituents in the uk of the eu budget. surely one of the areas she should concentrate on is the performance of her own leader, nigel farage. he has been on the committee on fisheries for three years and he has only ever turned up once to the committee meetings. yet the reform of the cfp is a very important issue. surely, in terms of value for money, she should make sure that her boss turns up and attends committee meetings rather than wasting taxpayers’ money getting paid for doing nothing. (applause)
blue-card answer. – i think that this is not the main issue. the main issue is where we are spending money. you are now running a political campaign against mr farage, but that is up to you. i can tell you that i have been involved in the fisheries reform. i presented to this parliament a report on what the auditors have said about the common fisheries policy and all of you voted against my report. i do not think you are very concerned about the common fisheries policy at all. why should mr farage be so concerned?
mr president, i believe the draft budget 2013 and draft amending budget 2012 before us today is a sensible compromise that our liberal group can support. three weeks ago, when the talks collapsed, there was very little on the table – some eur 3 billion of fines, from the council, and no agreement on the 2013 budget. failure to reach a compromise would have been a very bad day for europe and for the citizens, who rely on our funding for much-needed programmes. after negotiations and a tough, tough line from our negotiators – and i pay tribute to them all – we have eur 6 billion on the table for 2012 and a more realistic 2013 budget with a 6.8% proposed increase reduced by over eur 5 billion to a mere inflation increase, reflecting the difficult financial times we live in. alongside that is this joint statement where the council agrees to meet any shortfall in the coming financial year. the message from parliament here today to the council should be quite clear: we will hold you to that promise. you have made it; you must honour it in full when it comes to the amending budget for 2013. on that basis, i hope we can now vote through this compromise, and avoid the disastrous consequences of no deal and the threat that would have to many programmes which are vitally important to our constituents around europe.
rapporteur. − mr president, there were no amendments put down to my part of the budget, and there were actually very few comments made on my part of the budget in the debate. hopefully, the lack of comment in the debate reflects the fact that members recognise that most institutions have shown great responsibility for the 2013 budget. i would just like to remind colleagues again that all institutions bar two will come in with an increase of less than 1.9% next year. indeed, some institutions will come in at nearly 0%. i want to thank all the institutions for their cooperation, even though i know many will face great difficulties in 2013. for the european parliament’s own budget, the headline figure is again 1.9%, but the increase in operating costs is only about 0.6%. therefore, for next year we have accepted a large cut in real terms in our budget. of course, this parliament will want to continue to make savings in the future. that is why we have established the joint working group. the joint working group is currently looking, in the form of a comparative study with the us congress and member state parliaments, to identify more short-term savings, but also some long-term structural savings in parliament’s budget. the aim of that study and the aim of our 2013 budget is to make savings where possible, but also to make sure we do not damage the efficiency of the european parliament or of the members of this parliament. i believe that this approach has widespread support in this house. i therefore want to thank colleagues for that support throughout the year, but also the support that they will, hopefully, give tomorrow in the vote. when we do vote tomorrow – and we will probably will vote for this package – we will vote knowing that we have put together a fair deal, but we will also know that next year we will require amending budgets to pay for the 1.7% salary increase which will be backdated to july 2011, and amending budgets to make sure we make up the shortfall in the 2012 budget. so we vote tomorrow knowing all that. i would urge colleagues to vote ‘yes’ tomorrow in the vote on the budget.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to begin by saying thank you very much to all of our rapporteurs, who have done a sterling job. i would like to begin by commenting on the groundhandling report and by saying that we, as british conservatives, have historically supported liberalisation. our experience of multihandling in the uk has been successful for many years. i do not believe that we should be frightened of competition. but notwithstanding this, there are clearly issues which affect some of our colleagues here today. so it is not for that reason that we will not be supporting this report. there are other areas of concern which i would like to outline. firstly, no one would disagree that high standards are imperative for any commercial company operating at an airport. however, we are now faced with an indeterminate list of minimum quality requirements running over pages. these are overly prescriptive and the majority are unnecessary, leading to increased avoidable cost. secondly, it involves the input of the ‘unemployment committee’, as i call it, and the requirements for contractors under this regulation. when a contractor replaces a company at an airport, it is required to employ the staff of the previous company. what the new company is supposed to do with its own employees, i have no idea. which brings me to the slots report – and with my ecr hat on: i went through this ten years ago, and i have to say on this occasion it has not really been any easier. i repeatedly asked the commission for evidence showing where there is abuse in the slot allocation system under the current legislation, but i am still waiting. firstly, none of us needs a phd to understand that there is a shortage of airport capacity across europe. but we do not need a sledgehammer to crack a nut. we need to build runways. in the uk we have had a sophisticated market in secondary trading of slot-allocated airports at heathrow for many years, which has worked well. so the answer regarding what to do with the proceeds of the 1% of slots which are traded financially is not to donate them to either airports or governments. a slot is merely a traded commodity, the value of which is shown on company accounts. in addition, i do not think any of us oppose reviewing local rules, not least if all parties agree that there may be occasions where they could be adjusted, provided that it is left to the slot coordinators and regulators to decide which is the best approach. finally, in my view the current 80/20 rule is absolutely fine. our structures for ‘use it or lose it’ have weathered well in extreme circumstances, and i see no reason to change this. i also believe it is just easier to leave the slots series length alone. this brings me, finally, to the noise report: noise has always been a subsidiarity issue with local input, and we are now extremely concerned that this has been moved from a directive to an overly-prescriptive regulation. i have put forward an amendment to reflect this. it is important to point out that all european-registered carriers and those coming into europe already comply with the icao balanced approach and cape standards. one of our key concerns is the interpretation of marginally compliant aircraft, which i believe should not be played around with. i would like to conclude by saying that there are other issues, and of course i have been interrupted and lost time, but we spent nine months on this package and most people do not like most of the conclusions, albeit for different reasons. these are serious issues; we are global traders, and we must make sure we are not bogged down by eu rules which disadvantage our businesses and our supply chains. for those reasons, we shall also not be supporting the report on slots and noise at this stage.
blue-card question. – i would just like to ask mr speroni if he agrees with me that, when we look at noise at airports, the lax planning rules of many regional governments, national governments and local authorities over the years have been a major contributing factor to the amount of noise affecting people living in domestic dwellings around airports? would he also agree that we should come down hard on local and national governments to make sure that they cannot just build wherever they like in the future?
mr president, i would like to raise two points. the first is the importance of the slots for regional airports, so that they are totally connected to the hub airport. i think this is very important, and where i come from in northern ireland it is extremely important for our business links and for many other areas to ensure our economy is effective. another issue i want to raise is the noise issue. because it has just come to my attention that the 2002 directive which provided for a special category for city airports, and covered all airports, does not apply where there are less than 50 000 air traffic movements. george best city airport comes under that and in actual fact this would create a terrible burden for the people of east belfast at this present time if they did not have that noise control. so i would ask the commission maybe even at this late stage.... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i am in principle opposed to all eu legislation but, other things being equal, i prefer that legislation to be in the form of a directive rather than the form of a regulation, which of course is self-enacting. the content of the 1996 groundhandling directive was bad enough because it resulted in an increase in short-term contracts and greater use of new staff. this has led to a fall in wage levels. the proposed regulation would bring about further liberalisation. this might look good from an accountant’s perspective, but the jobs involved include aircraft maintenance, cargo handling and dealing with passengers, encompassing security checks. is it really desirable to jeopardise safety, security and handling of valuables to transient staff without continuity of service? liberalisation in this sphere, as in every other, is a recipe for oppressive working conditions, wage cuts and a lower standard of service.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it is no surprise that only ten member states at most are willing to adopt a financial transaction tax. the majority of states know that this tax would only push the financial sector out of europe, to the further detriment of their economies. insisting on forcing this tax through by means of enhanced cooperation will only make it more evident that it is the wrong way to go. the ill-fated swedish initiative back in the 1980s should be seen as a good reason for not proceeding. in addition, there are two aspects of the proposal that have not been laid out in clear terms and which are a matter of concern. the first and most important one is how it will affect non-participating member states – because it will, notably in the case of cross-border transactions. the second one is how this ftt will be spent. regardless, i hope that the british prime minister will protect the city from any implications of this tax.
mr president, agreement at the g20 on financial transactions, and at the basel committee on bank capital, is done to avoid regulatory arbitrage and the dangers of protectionism, but currently both the us and the eu seem to have difficulties in implementing these agreements in several areas. so when a limited ftt is introduced under enhanced cooperation in several european union member states shortly, we shall need to safeguard against the dangers of unintended consequences on a local and global basis. already in the us, a member of congress has put forward the price bill, explicitly to counteract the residence principle being proposed in the limited eu ftt, to ensure that us businesses cannot be used to collect non-us taxes. given the state of us-eu negotiations with regard to derivatives regulation in dodd frank, emir and mifid, we are already in danger of entering an effective trade war, whereby neither region will cooperate on financial reforms agreed at a global level. so communication on the extent and reach of even a limited eu ftt needs to be a priority.
mr president, i want to start by saying that i would have no objection to a globally-imposed financial transaction tax. imposed upon all financial transactions, it would raise a lot of money which i would wish to see used to lower other taxes which harm incentives to work and to innovate. however, i can see little benefit in an ftt which applies to only a few countries. it will raise some revenue from businesses too small to avoid it but, for the most part, it will simply displace transactions to those countries where the tax does not exist. i am pleased, therefore, that the united kingdom has said that it will not participate. if other european countries wish to go ahead, then that is a matter for them. but before doing so, perhaps they should ask themselves why sweden is not participating. the answer, i suspect, is that sweden has tried such a tax before and it resulted in a lot more business for the city of london. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – my answer to that would be that where you have a tax you will cause business to migrate elsewhere, and business that perhaps might be done in frankfurt or paris will move somewhere else. you refer also to the stamp duty in the united kingdom. of course that is not paid by foreign businesses, deliberately so we do not deter foreign business from taking place in the city of london.
mr president, it is received wisdom here that all the economic problems in the european union, and in particular the shambles of the euro zone, are all caused by the anglo-saxon capital markets and therefore they must be attacked. that is what the financial transaction tax is really all about. and it says two things to me. firstly, this unilateral approach on financial transaction tax, on global warming policy, on all of these things, is rendering europe the low-growth economic disaster zone of the world. this is a self-inflicted wound. these countries that are doing it are damaging their ability to do this business. secondly, even though the british government sensibly are not going along with this, the very fact that this was proposed and that over two thirds of the tax would have been raised from the city of london, tells me we should not be in this club at all. it was put in place to damage financial markets and in particular to damage britain. it is a bad idea for us and it is a bad idea for you too.
mr president, i have consistently opposed the imposition of an eu-wide financial transaction tax. whilst i am quite prepared to ensure that bankers and speculators carry their share of the financial burdens that many ordinary people face, i am firmly of the belief that this measure neither recognises, nor provides a solution to, the primary cause of europe’s vast economic problems: the folly of the single currency and the sovereign debt crisis. this proposal seeks to establish a more limited ftt under enhanced cooperation. it is an experiment for launching a revised eu-wide proposal. the committee assures us that non-participating countries will remain unaffected by the tax. however, given the intricacies of the transactions involved, this pledge is professionally regarded as unrealisable. the contribution of the united kingdom to the european union budget is already vast. i have no wish to see hard-working and hard-pressed families in the united kingdom suffer any further from these proposals from the european institutions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to address parliament on this sensitive and, may i add, emotive topic that concerns and engages so many parliamentarians, as well as millions of eu citizens. opinions vary on the necessity of transporting animals and on maximum transport times. i trust, however, we can all agree that when animals are transported proper standards of welfare should be respected and applied. the commission’s report on animal transport, adopted in november 2011, showed an improvement in animal welfare following the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1/2005. however, the situation could and should have been better and, owing to poor enforcement, there is clearly still room for improvement within the framework of the current legislation. the main focus must therefore be to ensure its proper enforcement. allow me now to turn to the comprehensive work carried out by the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski. i am grateful for his efforts in putting together the draft report on this complex subject. one of the most contentious issues is the maximum transport time. one of the conclusions to be drawn from the most recent efsa opinion on animal transport is that there is no scientific justification for the introduction of an eight-hour transport time for all species under all conditions. indeed we must take all aspects of the journey into account. i am pleased that the report supports the commission’s view on the need to improve enforcement; in fact, many of the suggested actions have already been taken forward. this includes the harmonisation of member states’ reporting on controls. i am happy to announce today that a related draft implementing decision will be discussed with the member states with a view to adoption by the commission early next year. i would also like to mention two of the activities of the commission’s food and veterinary office (fvo). the fvo holds regular meetings with the competent authorities of the member states to enable the exchange of experiences and best practices on enforcement of regulation 1/2005. and in 2013, a new series of ‘study visits’ will be launched on this particular issue. these will involve an fvo auditor, acting as guide and monitor, accompanying four experts from member states during a visit to another member state. these visits will serve two main purposes. firstly, they will bring officials from member states with particular problems to another where best practice solutions to those problems have been implemented. secondly, they will bring together officials responsible for controls along the same ‘trade route’: for example, officials from the netherlands, germany, austria and italy who are responsible for controlling movements of pigs, for instance, travelling through those countries. other proposed initiatives that are ongoing or in the pipeline include: improving controls of animal transport by making better use of navigation systems; the dissemination of guidance on the interpretation of the regulation; international cooperation for improved animal welfare in third countries; and communication to citizens. we are also working with the industry and ngos to promote and disseminate initiatives like the ‘guidance on transport of cattle’. there are, however, some suggestions in the report with which the commission cannot agree, and these include the large number of complex reports and studies that the report requests from the commission. the commission can only produce reports when these are necessary in relation to a specific initiative. in addition, i do not share the view that current eu legislation on hygiene and animal welfare can be held directly responsible for increasing the long-distance transport of animals. the legislation allows for sufficient flexibility for smaller and mobile slaughterhouses to remain economically viable, while respecting the eu rules on both hygiene and animal welfare. in conclusion, may i close by saying how much the commission appreciates the interest and input of parliament in relation to this file. although we may not always agree on some of the details i think i can say that we share the same goal: to ensure that animals are transported in a way that ensures their wellbeing.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − mr president, in spite of the council regulation on animal transport having been in place since 2005 there are still significant problems remaining and the aims of the regulation have not been fulfilled, mainly due to the lack of enforcement and poor compliance. we should be opposing unnecessarily long transport times for animals to slaughter, not only because of the obvious breach of animal welfare standards with respect to the animal, but also because long transport times run the risk of poor hygiene and the subsequent transmission and spread of diseases. furthermore, stress to animals can create toxins, negatively impacting on meat quality. consumers strongly support shorter transport times and cannot be ignored. up to six million animals are transported live for slaughter throughout the eu each year. they are livestock; we must pay full respect to their welfare.
mr president, first of all i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent job – a very difficult one. we all know the emotional aspect of this, as the commissioner said. it is a very difficult and very emotive subject for an awful lot of people. the report raises some very important issues, and i do not think anyone would endorse the unnecessary transport of live animals over long distances. of course, in incidences where this practice is unavoidable, rules should be in place to ensure that the transportation is as humane as possible. i firmly believe, and have always believed, that we should be exporting our meat products on the hook rather than on the hoof. the decline in the number of local smaller slaughterhouses across europe is extremely concerning. their closure only leads to increased levels of live transport, especially in the more rural and isolated areas, and that is not, mr president, very easy to resolve. a balance must be struck here between achieving high animal welfare standards and creating rules which are effective and, above all else, enforceable. any future legislation on this issue must take into account the geographical position in peripheral or isolated areas so that new rules which are practical do not discriminate against any member state or region or unintentionally distort the competition.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we already have adequate legislation on animal welfare. what is missing is the enforcement of current rules. in the uk, we have two inspection bodies: the rspca and trading standards. they will frequently be present at markets or abattoirs where lorries full of livestock are being unloaded. they will check the truck. does it have retaining gates at the back internally? are the internal compartments of the right size? is it properly ventilated? then they look at the animals. are they of roughly the same size within those compartments? are long-horned separated from polled? have they included heavily pregnant ewes? are there any lame animals? are there any weak animals? did any animals give birth? these people prosecute if they are not happy with what they find. i object in the strongest possible terms to politicians from countries where people engage in something like bull-baiting lecturing me and other farmers on how to transport our livestock. there is nothing scientific about eight hours. it is a purely random figure. this is gesture politics.
mr president, firstly may i thank the rapporteur for his work on this very important subject. it is an emotive subject which must not be used to undo the good work which agriculture and transport sectors have already done to date. great advances have been made in improving animal welfare standards during transport – state-of-the-art livestock trailers, greater training and requirements placed on haulage companies, journey planners and rest stop facilities. it is not in the interests of the haulier or the farmer for livestock to suffer during transport and we should encourage the industry as a whole to adopt best practice and compliance with the law. as with so many pieces of eu regulation, we need greater clarity to reduce the ambiguities. with greater clarity we may experience a reduction in the need for interpretations of the rules between member states. currently we have a regulation which, i believe, is not adequately enforced across the eu, and before introducing more regulation we should tackle the current non-compliance. the ability to export live animals is extremely important to peripheral regions and the northern ireland economy. it allows farmers a greater range of potential buyers. restricting the ability to export live animals exposes farmers to the mercy of local slaughtering plants which, with no other competing market, will have an extremely dominant position in the market place. we need high animal welfare standards but we also need a balance between the practical and the enforceable.
mr president, commissioner, too often the issue of animal transport is hijacked into a simplistic argument that says: every journey of less than eight hours is good for animals, and every one above eight hours is bad. well i have transported animals for many years; indeed i still have a licence to haul livestock. believe me that this simplistic notion is completely flawed and is not underpinned by the science. if you look at the science for horses and poultry, it says quite clearly that animal transport times should be less than eight hours. for cattle, sheep and pigs the greatest stress is caused not by journeys of more than eight hours; rather it is the loading and unloading of animals and the conditions on the vehicle which determine whether there is a genuine welfare problem. therefore eight-hour limits are not the silver bullet to improve animal welfare. the commission report highlights where the real problem lies: it is in the poor enforcement of current legislation. that is the real scandal. whether it is animal transport, battery hens, sow stalls or tether bans. we make the laws here, then many member states ignore them. so new laws are not the answer; enforcement of existing laws is the key to improving animal welfare and i hope this parliament can have a discussion with the commissioner on how we might actually make that work better, on small local slaughterhouses, i have to agree with my colleague elisabeth jeggle. we would all like to see more small local slaughterhouses become a reality, but the reality is that unless we roll back the draconian bse rules we currently have – made at eu level – that dream will never become a reality.
mr president, i would also like to thank my colleague mr wojciechowski for his tireless and patient work in this area. i am going to focus on just one thing, and that relates to 2010 when the very first written declaration to go through this parliament got its majority. that written declaration called upon this parliament to ask the commission to look at the particular case of horses being transported for slaughter. the appalling conditions suffered by horses in particular are well documented by ngos, and indeed i met with the commissioner’s predecessor to discuss this in detail. this is a shameful and wholly unnecessary trade in live animals, which are sometimes transported thousands of kilometres in searing heat to the salami factories of southern italy. it is completely unnecessary. as a result of this, an efsa report was commissioned, and this report supports the proposal for reduced transit times and for improvements in conditions for horses specifically. so, commissioner, i understand, of course, that you have recently taken over but i can assure you that scientific work has already been done. the work which you suggest has to be done for the eight-hour limit has already been done for equines. it is there, you already have it. i ask you to treat this as a priority, to show your willingness to listen to this parliament and to scientific evidence, and to take this as a first step in a new, enlightened and animal-welfare-focused animal transport regulation regime.
mr president, i would be no exception in extending heartfelt congratulations to our rapporteur. he has done a fantastic job coming to a workable compromise on this very emotional dossier where, even tonight, we have seen a number of emotional rather than factual speeches. commissioner, i would likewise welcome you to your place in this house in our first debate. we look forward to working with you on this dossier and i would, at this point, declare an interest as vice-president of the scottish society for the prevention of cruelty to animals. i think we agree that the problem we are trying to address with this report is to take stock of where we actually are. the problem is not that we need more rules; the problem is that we are not enforcing properly, via the member states, the existing rules. the case for new legislation, as we say in scotland, is simply not proven. likewise the eight-hour limit is simply not backed by science and any assessment of animal stress and upset. commissioner, i would pick up on your comments about small abattoirs, where you say that you disagree with our point about the eu rules making them more expensive. it is of course complex. the economics are complex in different places, but i would undertake to bring you some information from scotland where, particularly in relation to state aid, hygiene rules and the bse regulations, we do have credible data that we are seeing fewer, bigger abattoirs whereas we want to go in the opposite direction. i do look forward to working with you to start pulling things back to a more positive place.
mr president, on behalf of world horse welfare, which is headquartered in snetterton in my constituency, i can welcome this proposal which builds on the successful declaration we organised this year. for all those for and against who have quoted the scientific evidence tonight, you have not quoted what it says: of 65 000 horses transported long-distance across europe each year, 94% have at least one acute injury, and 90% show signs of disease. to the commissioner and those who argue against changing the law: enforcement does need to improve, but this resolution says that it can never be enough if the rules are wrong in the first place. the science we refer to includes the findings of europe’s food standards agency, which supports a tighter limit, and of the food and veterinary office, which says that capacity in slaughter houses is inconsistent with meeting it. last friday in norfolk, i stood amongst 4 500 postcards to commissioner president barroso calling on him to act, and i saw a film of a previously healthy horse transported to italy that was so exhausted that it could not muster the energy to stand up. i am proud that the world horse welfare gives abused and neglected horses a second chance in life; i want to be equally proud that the european union acts so that there are fewer horses for them to rescue.
in writing. – i fully support the principle of legislation aimed at high levels of animal protection and i accept that legislation relating to transportation is most appropriately dealt with at the eu level. that legislation must however be based in reality and respect must be had for the huge geographical and economic diversity of this continent. calls in this house to have a blanket ban for journeys over eight hours ignore those realities. parts of scotland's highlands, islands and southern uplands for example are often far from markets or abattoirs and lengthy journeys are a necessity. fragile local economies producing some of europe's finest foodstuffs would suffer as a result of such a ban. this house must reject calls for the ban in order to prevent a 21st century round of highland clearances.
deputising for the author. − mr president, i welcome the fact that we are having an opportunity to discuss mediation and progress. the oral question has been tabled because we want to make progress on mediation and speed up its use across the eu. we know that mediation, if used extensively, can result in significant savings of time and money. going to court is costly; best practice in mediation shows that across europe there is a 70% success rate with mediation cases, and indeed this rises to 80% if parties voluntarily opt for mediation. yet only 1% of parties are taking up the mediation option. the experience in my own member state is that litigation worth eur 200 000 took 333 days, costing on average eur 51 000, whereas evidence shows that mediation would have taken around 87 days and cost a fraction of that sum: eur 9 000. forty-five percent of small businesses tell us that they would not pursue a claim in another eu member state if it was for less than eur 50 000 because they would end up paying more in costs than the money they would get back. so the mediation directive is a big opportunity for small businesses. we face a situation that is both puzzling and frustrating. on the one hand we have an increasing body of literature and evidence showing us that, even at a very modest success rate, mediation can generate significant and measurable savings in both time and costs. on the other hand, however, we have a disappointingly low number of mediation cases throughout the eu and this, i believe, is not what the commission, parliament and the council intended. in article 1 we drafted the directive’s primary goals as being to facilitate access to alternative dispute resolution and to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and, indeed, by ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. so from a legal standpoint, the eu now has a responsibility to act promptly to ensure that those fundamental goals are being met. the need to do so is particularly urgent at a time of recession, at a time of austerity, at a time when member states should be concentrating on promoting time-saving and cost-cutting dispute resolution. the questions we would like the commissioner to address are: how does the commission intend to make progress on this issue where we are clearly not meeting the directive’s objective in a speedy way? in particular, how does the commission intend to make sure that the balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings is actually attained? does the commission take the view that the requirement for a balanced relationship implies an obligation on member states to set and attain a minimum percentage of cases to be mediated in each country, at least perhaps as far as cross-border disputes are concerned? and, if so, what steps is the commission thinking of taking in the event that a minimum percentage is not set or met? we very much welcome this debate and the opportunity to hear from the commission on this very important issue.
deputising for the author. − mr president, in case i do not get the opportunity to come back, i did want, under this process, to thank the commissioner for the commitment that she has demonstrated in her response. i am very encouraged by the proactive approach that the commission is going to take and i will, as my colleagues have mentioned, be interested in hearing those responses. the training, awareness and incentives are a core part of how we are going to be able to take this forward. so i would just like to encourage the commissioner to keep the committee and parliament informed on this ongoing work and to come back to us. because we want to assist you in this very important task. in the end, as we too often see, court backlogs and enormous costs are not justice for our citizens across the eu.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, england had fundamental rights under the common law for centuries before the concept was dreamed of by the european union, and we do not need the european convention on human rights to bestow them on us. those ancient rights and liberties are now being destroyed by the creation of an eu system of criminal law, for example under the infamous european arrest warrant. what have your fundamental rights given us in return? suspects against whom no evidence has been presented to a british court can be extradited and imprisoned for months or years without trial. meanwhile, we have been prevented from extraditing non-british suspect terrorists and criminals to their own countries outside the european union because of legal judgments made under the convention. those of you who lived under communist dictatorships prior to your joining the european union might think that this is an improvement. the english do not.
mr president, in her speech the rapporteur mentioned the report for human rights in the world. the vote on that parallel report will take place on thursday morning, and it is exactly because this parliament deigns to talk about human rights in the world and give out the sakharov prize that, when we discuss the annual report on our fundamental rights, we should have a unified position, as we have had in the past. it is with regret that we have an alternative motion for resolution, because i have to say, as coordinator, that i regret that we do not have that unified position. i want to say on record that we did everything that we could to facilitate that position. i believe we did nothing to cause a situation whereby we would not have just one vote on our fundamental rights. why did we want to do that? because this is the first report since the lisbon treaty and it is on very valuable issues which the commissioner and other speakers have mentioned: the european parliament’s commitment to the eu accession to the european charter of human rights; the data protection standards aimed at protecting domestic processing of data; the clear sets of indicators; early warnings; and so on and so forth. we have a whole range of issues which are extremely important to this parliament, and we do not want an un-unified position on many of these points. lgbt rights, gender equality, access to justice, the vulnerable at a time of austerity – people are looking to us not to be divided when we talk about other countries and other states. i noticed that in many of the speeches in this house, time after time people have talked about the quality of the report. i have to say again, as coordinator for the member who has been rapporteur for this report – and listening to the commissioner talking about the fundamental rights conference last week, the victims’ rights package and procedural rights – that, although we are in the midst now of a debate about opt-outs and so on, we are talking about real issues which are helping real people, and in this annual report we are simply checking whether we are doing the right things for real people. this is not a theoretical exercise. in my own member state, the victims’ rights package was welcomed, but it has to be known to more people. what is happening today is very valuable, and i think we should be unified in communicating this to people and not be divided. i want to put on record that we tried not to be divided and to project something very profound and something of very high quality. i congratulate the rapporteur on what she has done, and i hope we will gain a majority tomorrow for all the right reasons.
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, last month you attacked nigel farage here for his poor attendance on the committee on fisheries. you really enjoyed doing that and all those little europhiles sitting around you clapped their hands in glee. you, sir, sit on the committee on constitutional affairs with myself, yet i seldom see you there. the record shows you have turned up twice in the last 12 meetings, yet you are an advocate for eu government. do you not agree that your stance is highly hypocritical?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i should like to quote to mr barroso the words that he used in this house three months ago: europe needs a new direction, and that direction cannot be based on old ideas. europe needs a new thinking. that is what you said, mr barroso, and we could not agree more. but instead it is precisely the old thinking that is offered, with more europe apparently being the answer to every crisis. we heard this again from mr daul this morning. and this comes with a relentless drive to create a state called europe – a european federation. an idea which has no mandate from the citizens of our countries. for our eurocrats who write the scripts in the european institutions, there is just one irreversible direction of travel: more integration. but the fact is that our citizens do not want this; they want more control over their own lives and over their own government, not more control from brussels. they despair at what they see as a self-interested discussion that does not really address the most urgent problems facing them: how to reduce costs and the burden of unnecessary regulation, restore growth and competitiveness to our economies, create real jobs, and ensure a prosperous and secure future. europe needs to do less, but better. today, finance ministers are meeting to try and agree a way ahead on proposals for banking union. tomorrow, the european council will reflect on progress which has been made. there must be acceptable arrangements to ensure that those countries that are not in the euro zone participate fully and effectively in any decisions that may impact on their financial, economic and political interests and the single market. in this regard, mr president of parliament, i must express alarm at the unprecedented proposal that you put forward to establish a new committee on economic and monetary union that is deliberately designed to exclude at least one, if not more, member states. in september, mr barroso, you stated very clearly: in europe we need no more walls dividing us, because the european union is stronger as a whole in keeping the integrity of its single market, its membership and its institutions. i find it disturbing, therefore, that there is a mindset, in this parliament of all places, which seeks to run counter to that very sentiment. the european union likes to talk about diversity, but let us see it put this into practice. the euro zone should be recast, and the eu needs to be reshaped to enable different circles of engagement overlapping at the centre. we need a new treaty which will recognise this more flexible structure and which has the specific consent of the citizens of our nations.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is a certain sense of irony here this morning because this is of course the week when you were awarded the nobel peace prize, this great achievement. i thought the award bizarre, particularly as what we are discussing this morning is a new range of measures that will further pile on the agony for those southern euro zone states. europe is now split from north to south, with increasing violence and enmity between the peoples of the north of europe and the south of europe, so i do not think the peace prize was really very appropriate. not, of course, that that will pose you a problem tomorrow, because there are no leaders in those southern european countries who, frankly, have got the courage to stand up to the might of brussels and challenge the euro zone project. however what you will have at tomorrow’s summit, yet again, is the curious case of mr cameron. on the one hand, he is a big ally. he resists having a referendum. he publicly states again and again that he wants britain to remain a member of the european union and, surprisingly, he has supported every one of your moves towards a fiscal union and banking union. mr verhofstadt indeed called mr cameron the greatest federalist outside the euro zone. yet, on the other hand, he cannot go along with any of this because, politically, the financial transaction tax and the banking union are quite impossible in britain. but every time there is a summit and the euro zone moves that little bit further forward, it leaves britain — and mr cameron — even more marginalised. in fact it is barely worth him turning up tomorrow. the great debate in britain has always been that the single market has been the victory of our membership of the union, and that we have great influence over that single market. well, increasingly we are going to be excluded from the key decisions that affect that single market. given the hostility – and i am sorry to disappoint my conservative friends here, but there is hostility towards britain in this place now, where people blame their economic problems on our city of london — frankly, the argument that the single market benefits britain and that we have any influence over it is now disappearing, and very shortly i think you will be glad to see the back of us. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the story goes – mr cameron’s story and mr barroso’s story and the story of most people here – that the euro is something that needs to be saved. therefore, the more money we throw at it, and the more guarantees we put behind, the better it is, because the break up of the euro zone would be a very difficult and perhaps perilous course to go down. i am afraid that there is a problem with this. nothing that is being done, whether it is the banking union or the fiscal union, does a single thing to change the problem that there is a massive gap in terms of competitiveness between the german economy and the mediterranean economies. if we carry on down this route of saving the euro, we will probably finish up with violent revolution in those southern mediterranean states. so i would say that it would be better, if we were good europeans, to break up the euro zone and recognise that greece, spain and portugal should never have joined in the first place.
mr president, there is a lot on the agenda and, alas, most of it is diluted. my wish is that those things that need to be done fast are done fast, which mainly means action in connection with money and debt. every twist and delay makes bail-out, restructuring, write-offs, buy-back and even the redemption fund more expensive. if we had faced up to the reduction of greek bond debts sooner, it would have cost less without putting profit in the pockets of hedge funds. on other issues, the pace has probably been too fast. the single supervisory mechanism is an example. the parliament has delivered a good and balanced position, and we are waiting for our co-legislative partner to get a negotiation mandate. but remember that the deal has to be done with us! it is not finalised in the european council. presidents, you have also both raised the issue of more scrutiny. my committee is not shy of this. where was the economic dialogue invented? in the econ committee in this parliament — but boy, did we have to fight! we have established meetings with national parliaments for the scrutiny of the semester process; the steps we have taken have been welcomed, but attendance by ministers is voluntary and attendance by commissioners gets squeezed between greece and press conferences. as we move forward with ssm and further steps in emu we have shown ourselves ready to scrutinise to the maximum, but give us real scrutiny, including the power to summon and demand attendance when we want it. finally, on the two-pack: communitising intergovernmental steps is welcome, but there is need for more ambition in facing the sovereign debt crisis. delay may be politically convenient but, as i said, time is money, not just in terms of the final bill but in terms of the human cost involved and the uncertainty that blights the plans of individuals, businesses and europe.
madam president, during the last budget summit, the eu was unable to form a consolidated deal owing to the disparity of opinion across the 27 member states, which – understandably, for the most part – had national interests at heart. without a doubt, this is why you used the platform of a controversially awarded nobel peace prize as an opportunity to undermine domestic sovereignty over national budgets. to you the ideology of a european superstate supersedes the need for people’s voices to be heard. this is why the farce of the eu winning the peace prize sparks a debate in the uk. the british people do not want to be governed by a faceless, unanswerable power in brussels. this is why my party is making so much ground. david cameron does not have our interest in mind. his days – and your days – are numbered.
mr president, let us rewind a little. before you roll out your latest grandiose plan, let us take a look back. do you remember the lisbon agenda? let me refresh your memory. it was adopted for a ten-year period in 2000 by the european council. it broadly aimed to make europe, by 2010, the most competitive and the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. how did that go for you? not well. you replaced it with another plan. now your beloved political project is in dire straits. millions across europe are in despair, and now you are scurrying around looking for another plan. you cannot accept the political reality that your project is fundamentally flawed. your foundations are as strong as the blancmange that i had for dessert last night. whilst the euro sails into the rocks, the three presidents grandstand with the nobel prize. did nelson mandela grandstand in the same manner? did barack obama? no. they had dignity, and we are not seeking to create some useful diversion to problems so destructive to the peoples of europe. no wonder the people of the uk demand a referendum to have their say on this mess.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, when i first starting standing up in this place and saying that i thought the euro project was flawed and would end very badly, i was met with a wall of derision in this house, and i must admit it was a very lonely old game. but now there is a growing number of people here who recognise the flaws in the euro project, and out in europe roughly half the population of the eu and the euro zone now regret going into the currency. but i was pleased to see this week that an even bigger voice is now being heard amongst the experts in the financial community. the danish bank – saxo bank – said that the euro zone leaders are behaving like drug addicts and alcoholics. and how right saxo bank are, because you keep on taking that same drug that is doing you and the peoples of europe so much damage. it is time for some recognition. the mediterranean states do not fit into the euro zone, and if this summit pushes on towards banking and fiscal union, it will not help anybody: it is going to break up in the end.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i first of all make a reference to defence, which is going to be on the agenda tomorrow. the eu should not be meddling in defence. it adds nothing to capabilities and merely duplicates and undermines commitment to nato, but this is a debate for another day. on the matter more immediately in hand, it seems to me that there are two competing visions of the future of europe. one is inward-looking – wasteful, bureaucratic, dismissive of real democracy and sucking the life from our nations – and the other is an outward-looking, flexible europe that respects the sovereignty of our nations and that focuses on economic growth and competitiveness, and which does less, costs less and ensures that all countries have an effective role in all the decisions that affect their interests. there is a clear choice. i want to echo the words of my prime minister, david cameron. we want a fresh settlement for the united kingdom with fresh consent, either in an election or in a referendum. that consent, i have to say, will depend on the path ahead that is chosen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i do not have to tell colleagues here that there is a huge debate in the uk on its future membership of the eu and this is a crucial time, when decisions have to be based on the needs and wishes of the people we represent. i represent wales which, unlike the uk, is a net beneficiary of eu membership. we receive high levels of funding because of our weak economy marginalised by successive uk governments. our economy would suffer even more if cuts were made to the eu budget, but i would like to come back to the issue of employment that the commissioner mentioned in his closing remarks. to create jobs and growth, wales has to work in close partnership with other eu nations. like them, we have ideas and we have potential, we want a national powerhouse for green energy focused on our own energy needs and reinvested in the welsh national interest. no country can be insulated from the economic crisis. we can build the economy, but a really solid commitment to creating jobs is essential.
rapporteur. − mr president, after extensive consultation with members of the libe committee in the commission, and eurostat, the libe committee took the decision to reject this commission proposal on crime statistics. during our work it became clear that we, as legislators, did not see adequate added value to move forward with the proposal. in these times of austerity and budgetary constraint, the justification for a budget of eur 12 million for this proposal was not sufficiently demonstrated. fundamental questions surrounding methodology in the survey remain. victimisation surveys present too subjective a basis for this survey to have real added value. i emphasise that we greatly value the work of eurostat. we note the valued role statistics can sometimes play, but i propose that the plenary today rejects this proposal. statistics are greatly lacking in many areas, but this proposal is something that i hope will be reconsidered, with an alternative being brought forward with proper facts in due course where the house can be confident of its added value at that time to the european taxpayer.
rapporteur. − mr president, in view of that ambivalent statement we just heard, i would ask us now to proceed with the matter and take a vote as soon as possible, now.
mr president, we were treated to a little theatrical gesture earlier when the president of parliament with a great flourish pulled out his pen and signed the 2013 budget, boasting that it represented a substantial increase: an increase of 2.9 % or as marta andreasen said in the debate yesterday, of course an increase on top of the previous increase which makes it closer to an increase of 9 %. while the media of europe have been focused on the 2014-2020 financial perspectives, the actual budget keeps rising as it does year after year. it only ever goes in one direction. we are all familiar with the bicycle metaphor where the eu has to keep moving forward otherwise it falls over. i have always thought that a ravening shark that has to keep swimming would make a better simile. but the reason that metaphor is so apt is because it has to keep purchasing the loyalty of client groups around the place. i am not really talking about the people who work directly for the brussels institutions but the armies of consultants and contractors all over europe who have turned the brussels system into their livelihood, and if the money ran out for them the system would be finished the next day.
mr president, let me congratulate the cyprus presidency for managing these tricky negotiations over the 2013 budget. nevertheless, the whole structure of the eu budget is based on a 1950s paradigm of food security and agricultural subsidy, which no longer makes sense. one atrocious waste of money is keeping strasbourg as a second european parliament seat. closing it would save approximately eur 1.5 billion over the seven-year period. there is also the need to repatriate structural funds for richer countries and continue this source of funding for only the newer, poorer countries. funds should instead be devoted to science and technology, research and development and large – mainly communications – infrastructure projects as part of an eu pro-growth agenda. it is also essential that the cap is reformed and cuts are made to the central eur 6 billion administrative budget of the eu. in particular, restraint must be applied to the large, low-tax salaries paid to fat eurocrats. the eu budget should have been frozen, and i deeply regret any increase in overall spending in real terms proposed for 2013.
mr president, i love this argument that a euro spent at brussels level is worth more than a euro spent at national level, which is the justification for these budget rises. i mean, why not take the logic to its conclusion? why not employ everyone as a government worker? why not have the state responsible for every euro of spending? think of how incredibly wealthy we would be: like the soviet union, but even more so. the reality is that stimulus of this kind does not work, even at national level. the countries which decreed the biggest stimulus packages suffered the worst downturns. but it especially does not work when you remove the spending away from the people and you centralise it in remote institutions. so what we really mean by stimulus spending at eu level is higher entertainment allowances and higher pensions and higher salaries and private jets from which commissioners occasionally get out and lecture people about the need for austerity. even in its own terms, this is the most useless form of stimulus spending we have ever had. higher taxes do not redistribute wealth. they redistribute people.
mr president, the people of my country are very concerned at paying yet more money to the eu. we are paying gbp 53 million a day gross, which is gbp 30 million a day net. we are also talking now of gbp 118 billion a year in terms of red tape or regulations, and the accounts have still not been signed off for the eu for 18 years in a row. this is not good enough – and now the eu wants one-and-a-half billion more this year and yet more for the next seven years. what planet is the eu living on? is it mars or venus or pluto? this is not real. what is real is that the people of greece are suffering; the conditions in greece now are worse than germany in the 1930s because of the political euro. that is a disgrace, and here we are in strasbourg – 200 million euros a year to come back and forward between brussels and strasbourg. this is a disgrace; we must cut back on the budget. not a penny more till the eu gets its house in order.
mr president, i have been disappointed by the reaction of my colleagues towards the commission on groundhandling services. the aim of the commission was the further opening of the market to improve both the competitiveness of our airports and the quality for passengers. the uk has free-market access in this sector, as have several other member states, and this free-market approach works well. of course, quality standards can be improved, and that is what we have been trying to do with this proposal. we liberals and democrats believe that, as free-market access is the norm in eu transport policy, the complete liberalisation of the groundhandling market should be the ultimate goal. it is difficult to understand why the groundhandling market still stays restricted. i really hope that the referral back to committee of this legislative proposal will allow us to work towards that goal and that we will not see it go further backwards from what has been achieved so far.
mr president, we need to remember that the reasoning behind this proposal was to deal with the potential doubling of air passengers by 2030. we do need a better use of slots, particularly in the future, even if we are not struggling at the moment. however, i think we need to combine these measures with better use of other modes, particularly high-speed rail, on short-haul flights and for connecting flights, as well as of multi-hubbing, combined ticketing and making better use of regional airports. we have a lot of spare capacity at our regional airports. my main concern regarding the proposal was its potential to harm the regional airports with the possible use of more hub-to-hub flights and long-distance flights, as the last speaker said. because of this i put in an amendment on behalf of my group which was adopted, saying that regional connectivity shall be guaranteed in the trading of slots, but i will certainly follow up on this issue.
mr president, the aim of this proposed new regulation on airport slots is to ensure optimal allocation and use of the slots in congested airports, a particular problem in the region that i represent, london, where there is a huge debate over aviation and expansion of airport facilities. this proposal aims to strengthen and effectively implement slot allocation and use and to enhance fair competition and competitiveness of the operators, which of course is a good thing. the report says that airlines can keep a series of slots for a scheduling period, provided they have used 80 % of their slot allocation during the previous scheduling period, but some of the regulations have unintended consequences. red tape aimed at compiling data on the financial compensation from the sale of slots would unfortunately result in the publication of confidential commercial information, which would add extra administrative costs to the airlines and therefore those costs would be passed onto the consumer as increased airline fares, so we voted against it.
mr president, as a member of this parliament for northern ireland, i welcome the committee’s amendments to the proposals, which would ensure that changes to the allocation of slots would be made in a manner that ensures connectivity between hub airports and regional airports. if this was to be lost to my constituency – for example, if we lost our direct links to heathrow in london – it would be extremely detrimental to our economic well-being. in an ever-increasing global marketplace, access such as this is vital. furthermore, giving slot preference to small airlines may also encourage foreign direct investment within our airports. in northern ireland that is also essential to our economy.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s proposal on noise-related operating restrictions because i believe it has taken a balanced approach, taking into account both the effect of noise on quality of life and also the importance of air services and aviation in a commercial sense. both the aviation sector and businesses need some certainty to operate and we cannot let situations happen where a local authority will decide a night ban that could then be considered illegal under competition law. so i think it is a shame that the commission will not be able to scrutinise these decisions in this respect, after that section was voted down in plenary today. i think we need to take action to phase out the noisiest aircraft for the sake of our citizens, and at the same time to give airlines a certainty and continuity in the way we deal with noise at airports.
mr president, i voted against the regulation on air traffic related noise because time and time again we see decisions being taken at a european level which could be taken better at a national or local level. introducing a law by means of a regulation, as opposed to a directive, makes it much more difficult for member states to actually meet local concerns. of course i believe that local people should be listened to, and their voices heard, when it comes to issues like health and noise. and yes, we must phase out older noisy aircraft – and actually i support international collaboration in the eu towards the development and introduction of those cleaner, greener, quieter, more efficient aircraft. but we do not need to do all of this in a one-size-fits-all eu regulation.
mr president, as a member of parliament for northern ireland, i cannot support the commission’s proposal for establishing rules on the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions in eu airports. the proposals would abolish the provision that exists in directive 2002 allowing the george best belfast city airport to enact more stringent measures relating to addressing aircraft noise because of its unique location. this step would negatively impact businesses and residents living in the areas of east and south belfast and north down and thus should be robustly opposed in principle for the protection of my constituents. the commission’s new regulation rightly focuses on addressing aircraft noise on an airport-by-airport basis and with due regard to implementing operating restrictions only where necessary and on a cost-effective basis. however, this worthwhile premise is overshadowed by the fact that the draft regulation only focuses on airports with a large annual volume of traffic, and that regional airports and those residing nearby would thus remain unaffected.
in writing. − i abstained on this draft amending budget as although it foresees an additional eur 6 billion for the 2012 budget, it does not go far enough. eur 9 billion is missing from the 2012 budget so eur 3 billion will have to be covered by the 2013 budget. this means that the 2013 budget is already eur 3 billion down and we will find ourselves in the same position next year, with not enough funding to cover the costs of programmes such as erasmus and other research and innovation programmes. last year 630 students and 112 staff members from wales took part in the erasmus programme; we must ensure that there is enough money in the 2013 budget for this to continue.
in writing. − i abstained on this amending budget. i regret the need for an extra eur 6 billion to be added to the 2012 budget but welcome the fact that the expenditure is to be on areas i consider a priority for the eu. these are programmes that should assist with the creation of jobs and economic recovery.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 17 by the greens on iter because i am in favour of reducing the european union budget and amendment 17 was to reduce payments by 484 million. however i do not support the intent of the author of the amendment which was to eliminate nuclear power. i fully support nuclear power and, if the british people were not sending so much money to brussels, more would be available for investment in the british nuclear industry.
in writing. − my position is to reduce the uk budget. i abstained on amendment 1 by the ecr to the la via/vaughan report on the 2013 budget of the eu because it only called for a freeze, which while better than the 2.8% increase that was voted is still not enough. i want mr cameron to unilaterally reduce the uk contribution down to zero.
in writing. − i voted against the report as it means that once again we will face a shortfall of at least eur 9 billion in 2013. this year programmes such as erasmus have been deprived of funds as a result of under budgeting in the 2012 budget. last year 630 students and 112 staff members from wales took part in the erasmus programme; we must ensure that there is enough money in the 2013 budget for this to continue.
in writing. − conservatives have consistently called for a budgetary freeze in line with inflation as was initially the case last year. this must be a restrained budget and there should be commitment, not to spend more money but to spend less more wisely. there are high levels of debt in member states and we cannot expect our constituents to understand why we demand more and more money. unemployment is high, youth unemployment is higher and the economy is stagnated. those systems in place are fundamentally flawed and we must do better, we must learn from our mistakes. we must adapt more quickly to problems when they arise, concentrating on areas that provide real added value. this budgetary increase is not acceptable. my group called for a freeze, with expenditure rising by no more than inflation. this is not what we have got and therefore the ecr has voted against this. we do not need more spending, but greater restraint. we must now put in place a strong system that has the requisite flexibility to both scrutinise spending and allow us to mitigate future difficulties. wholesale reform is needed to ensure there is no repeat of the catastrophic consequences of past failures.
in writing. − i voted against an increase in the eu’s budget albeit it represents a real terms freeze. across the eu workers providing vital public services are enduring not just real terms freezes but actual pay freezes and, in some cases, actual pay cuts. the public sector is having to find massive savings in order to function. the eu simply cannot stand aloof from this reality and demand ever increasing sums of money.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that we were able in the end to agree a budget for 2013, although i would have liked to have seen further reductions in waste and greater emphasis on research, education and programmes to support jobs.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to emilia-romagna motorcycles as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i support this application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is the fifteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy. it concerns 512 redundancies in ten enterprises operating in division 30 of nace revision 2 (manufacture of other transport equipment) during the nine-month reference period between 28 february 2011 and 28 november 2011. of these 512 redundancies, 63 were calculated in accordance with the second indent of the second paragraph of article 2 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, and 449 with the third indent of the same paragraph.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to saab as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i support this application. one of the key criteria for commission's assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. in order to establish this link, the swedish authorities refer to the 2011 automobile industry pocket guide(3) which shows that the eu-27 in 2010 with 15.1 million units had 26% of worldwide passenger car production, a major reduction from 34.1% in 2005 and 35.9% in 2000. during the same decade, the market share of the bric countries had risen from 8.4% (2000) to 15.8% (2005) and 33.5% (2010). the declining share of the european market as a proportion of the world market for passenger cars is also borne out by the cars 21 final report, published on 6 june 2012.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to país vasco productos metálicos as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i support this application. spain is among the member states most seriously affected by the global financial and economic crisis. manufacturing in turn has been among the most affected sectors and the situation continues to deteriorate. the gloomy industrial prospects resulting from the global financial and economic crisis consequently led to a lower demand for, and production of, metal and metal products. in spain the production of the metal sector as a whole decreased by 24.6% and the production of metal products by 23.3% in 2009 compared with the previous year. while both areas of activities started to recover during the first quarter of 2011, this eventually proved to be an unsustainable trend and the production of both sectors declined significantly again in the second half of the year.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to flextronics as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i supported this application. one of the key criteria for the commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the danish authorities argue that the redundancies at flextronics denmark are a direct consequence of the major structural changes in world trade patterns in the area of services provided by flextronics denmark, i.e. design and electronics manufacturing services, to original electronic equipment manufacturers.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to nokia as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i voted for this application. one of the key criteria for commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. to date, the mobile phone sector has been the subject of several egf applications, all of which were based on trade-related globalisation. the romanian authorities argue that in the last several years there has been a general tendency in europe for the it sector to move to asia. in order to respond to the challenges of the markets, the headquarters of nokia corporation in finland elaborated a strategy to move its production sites as close to the markets as possible. the primary reason for the redundancies is the transfer of functions within the sector to third countries outside europe. assembly of mobile phones, previously carried out in cluj and salo, has been offshored to asia (china, south korea, india and vietnam, where a new nokia plant is under construction). component manufacture and subcontracted production had already been transferred out of europe. following the direction already taken by production, both design and product development have been, or are being, offshored.
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories to outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to soziale as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i supported this application. one of the key criteria for commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the austrian authorities argue that that the dismissals in styria’s mobile social services sector (provision of mobile social services for people with handicaps and mobile youth assistance) occurred as a result of reductions in the social budget implemented by styria with a view to consolidating their overall budget (as part of their contribution to austria’s stability and consolidation commitments under the 2010-2014 stability programme).
in writing. − globalisation has positive and negative effects on the economy. one of the consequences is the relocation of companies or factories to outside the eu. the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their job as a result of this or as a result of the economic crisis. in my constituency, wales, we have seen companies uprooting and moving to where they can find cheaper labour and we have all felt the effects of the crisis. when burberry closed their factory in the rhondda, i called on the welsh government to apply for this funding. they did not. but this money would have done so much to help those who had lost their jobs. i voted for awarding egf funding to nokia salo as their employees should receive the support necessary to help them to get back onto the job market.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. one of the key criteria for commission’s assessment was the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. to date, the mobile phone sector has been the subject of several egf applications, all of which based on trade related globalisation. the finnish authorities argue that the current difficulties of nokia, nokia siemens networks, almost all subcontractors and the affected regions go back to february 2011. at that time nokia announced a significant change in the company’s strategy and launched an extensive cooperation with microsoft with regard to the use of microsoft windows phone as its primary smartphone operating system, while keeping nokia’s own symbian operating system as a software platform in lower priced phones until the end of 2016. the demand for symbian phones has meanwhile dropped considerably, and the development and maintenance operations based on the symbian system will therefore be discontinued.
in writing. − i voted against this commission proposal for a europe-wide survey of crime on the grounds that it would cost eur 12 million and be of little added value. collecting and analysing statistics at an eu level can be very useful in helping to formulate policies. it is also important that common methodologies and formats are used so that figures are compatible. however, this proposal cannot be supported, particularly at a time of economic crisis. in wales, we have just elected police commissioners, albeit with a very low turnout. plaid cymru leader leanne wood called this week for the devolution of criminal justice to wales. safety from crime is an issue of great concern to my constituents, but i do not believe that this survey is a priority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of rejecting this proposal. i know from my own member state that the criminal law of scotland is significantly different from that of england or northern ireland and that makes statistical comparisons in this field difficult. these differences can only be amplified across a further 26 member states and i question the added value likely to be gained from the commission proposal.
in writing. − i followed the rapporteur who, in the light of the unconvincing nature of the arguments put forward in support of the survey, proposed the rejection of this legislative proposal.
in writing. − this is one of the areas where we should try to enhance the question of subsidiarity. in principle it is a good idea to establish a common framework for producing statistics on safety from crime. member states will, by the transmission of harmonised european data on crime and safety based upon a household/personal survey, suddenly be able to respond to ‘people’s feelings of personal insecurity as an important aspect of citizens’ well-being.’ so, for the cost of eur 12 million it is proposed to authorise an eu-level survey based on the personal feelings associated with the fear of the crime. but why, in these times of austerity, would we spend the cost of a new hospital in britain on gathering data on the perceptions and feelings towards crime in an entirely subjective way? are we in the business of funding university social science departments? do we indeed have any competence in field of criminal law? no. this is a waste of time. it brings more ridicule on this place and meps should realise that the last thing we want a reputation for is as a talking shop.
in writing. − i voted against this report that aimed to change groundhandling services at airports. the commission proposed to increase the number of groundhandlers at airport and set the minimum training period at two days. plaid cymru’s group in parliament worked closely with the european transport workers federation to oppose these changes. this trade union represents workers in the transport sector in wales through its affiliated organisations gmb, unison and pcs. the way to improve groundhandling practices in airports such as cardiff is to invest more in training for those members of staff who have already been employed. parliament as a whole voted to refer the report back to the committee, where transport workers’ unions will be further consulted on the best way forward.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s rejection of this proposal. the commission’s attempts to further liberalise groundhandling services would have undermined workers’ rights and today’s vote is a victory for those workers.
in writing. − i voted to reject the commission proposal on groundhandling services. i oppose further forced liberalisation of this sector.
in writing. − this report was intended to further liberalise the eu’s groundhandling market, which provides services at airports such as baggage, freight and mail handing. however, the report had already been rejected by the transport committee over fears that the proposal to raise the minimum number of groundhandling providers at airports would lead to a race to the bottom in terms of conditions for workers, and would also have affected the quality of service. i joined fellow labour meps in voting to send the report back to the transport committee for further negotiation as, while we are not completely against liberalisation, we felt there needed to be more safeguards in place. in particular we felt that new legislation should recognise that different approaches will work better in different countries and, furthermore, that if we are to have increased liberalisation, it should include appropriate protection for workers, including proper contracts and wages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this to strengthen and implement more effectively slot allocation practices. i also voted in favour of an amendment which will improve links between railways and airports, as it is essential that our transport infrastructure in wales is better connected. i was disappointed that the report did not include a reference to environmental criteria being used but nevertheless thought the report to be a constructive way forward to increase the capacities of cardiff airport and others like it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. air travel has a vital role to play in the eu’s economy. the commission should now recognise the importance of start-up aid for new routes and guidelines must be liberalised to enable scotland to implement a successor to the route development fund.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal because i believe the commission proposal may provide a good starting point for the purpose of improving airport efficiency.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament for northern ireland i welcome the adoption of this report on allocation of airport slots as a means by which to protect connectivity between the regions of the eu and hub airports. i tabled a number of amendments to this report relating to the issue as connectivity and i am pleased that many were included in the final report. we must continue to support the creation and maintenance of links between regional airports and hub airports. connectivity is an essential aspect of any economy and it is particularly important to us in northern ireland. we must have a means by which to protect our links to hub airports such as heathrow if we are to encourage international investment and economic growth in our province.
in writing. − i had concerns about new legislation on noise-related restrictions at airports and therefore voted against. while we must look at how we can improve how our airports operate, we also have to respect those who live under flight paths, including people in wales. the new rules will give the commission the power to overturn night-time flying bans. i disagree with this approach as we need to consider why those bans were in place in the first place and respect the rights of those citizens who live in the vicinities of airports.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal. the proposal aims at updating existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the union within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management. the balanced approach needs to be applied in a consistent manner. the balanced approach covers the full range of noise mitigating measures (1. reduction of aeroplane noise at source; 2. land-use planning and management measures; 3. noise abatement operational procedures (using of specific runways, routes or procedures); and 4. operating restrictions), imposes the assessment of the noise problem and provides for appropriate consultation.
in writing. − as an mep for northern ireland i could not support the adoption of the report on noise-related operating restrictions on airports. while i do support an increased level of protection for eu citizens against airport noise there is a gaping omission in this report. the 2002/30/ec directive, which has been revised by this report, made special provision for increased protection for residents close to city airports which do not attain the 50 000 air traffic movement threshold. george best belfast city airport was one such airport covered by this provision. residents from greater belfast, particularly those in east and south belfast under the flight path, will no longer enjoy the protection afforded by the higher standards of the noise report. i welcome the balanced and member-state-focused approach taken by this report; however, in the interest of my constituents, i would ask the commission to reconsider the pertinent matter concerning the city airport provisions. these provisions are in danger of being lost and this would be to the serious detriment of a huge number of eu citizens resident by city airports across europe.
in writing. − explanation of vote - leichtfried report: introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at union airports within a balanced approach. yesterday the european parliament voted on introducing noise-related restrictions at airports within the european union. the legislation sought to improve the noise climate and to reduce the numbers of people affected by harmful aircraft noise. i have campaigned against airport expansion in my region and support the reduction of aircraft noise. however, the proposed legislation was the right idea, in the wrong form. the aviation sector is already compliant with the internationally agreed regulatory standard and so there is no justification for a further expansion of eu law. in addition, the proposed requirements in the legislation are not objective enough to warrant more regulation. i therefore abstained in my vote, recognising that, whilst i support the intentions, i cannot support the measures as proposed.
in writing. − in many countries people are paying the price for years of uncontrolled public spending, spending which politicians pretended to justify by forecasts, but those forecasts were based on unreliable and sometimes even fraudulent statistics. this must not happen again. statistics need to be accurate and independent at both national and european level. they need to be free from political meddling. i am pleased to have worked with colleagues from this parliament to make changes to this report. i hope that these will help improve independence, increase transparency and importantly also give the people we represent easier access to data they can understand. this will mean that our taxpayers can better hold their politicians to account.
in writing. − accurate statistical information is vital for informed decision-making. the eu’s statistical system is therefore of immense importance and i accordingly supported this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. the main purpose of european statistics is to underpin the development, monitoring and evaluation of european policies with reliable, objective, comparable and coherent factual information.
in writing. − i voted for this report on the globalisation of the ftt. the financial sector is vastly under-taxed and if an eu-wide ftt was introduced, additional revenue of up to eur 57 billion per year would be generated in the eu-27. through the ftt, the financial sector will properly participate in the cost of re-building europe’s economies. at a time of crisis and much debate over the eu budget, this is vital. wales has been badly hit by the crisis. i want to see that the costs of the crisis are shouldered those who helped cause it.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote. whilst i favour a financial transaction tax, the current proposal does not relate directly to my constituents.
in writing. − i welcome parliament's decision to grant enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax. it is important to note that enhanced cooperation respects the rights, competences and obligations of the non-participating member states, inasmuch as the possibility of raising harmonised ftt on the territories of the participating member states does not affect either the ability of non-participating member states to maintain or introduce similar taxation at a national level, or the conditions for raising such taxes on their territories.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, which gives the european parliament’s consent for 11 member states to proceed with the introduction a financial transaction tax. i very much hope now that parliament can work on a proposal from the commission to introduce a tax at an eu level. although only some member states will participate at this stage, the commission should still provide a strong proposal to cover as many transactions as possible.
in writing. − during my time as an mep, i have campaigned for improved animal welfare standards across the european union. today i voted in favour of a report setting out some of the improvements that are needed in animal transport conditions. the most debated issue was a proposal to set an eight-hour limit on journeys. this call follows a successful campaign by animal welfare charities which guaranteed the support of a majority of meps as well as over a million citizens across europe. i have been contacted by hundreds of constituents from wales who have been supporters of this campaign. most, if not all, farmers in wales are within eight hours of a slaughterhouse which means that this proposal is practical while guaranteeing that animals are not transported unnecessarily across the continent. while the report adopted today could have been stronger, i am happy that it means the debate on animal transport times continues.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which insists on limiting the transport time of animals destined for slaughter to eight hours taking account of loading time, irrespective of whether this takes place on land or at sea, with some exceptions taking into account geographic conditions in the outermost regions, sparse road networks, remote location or the option of longer transport of some animal species confirmed by scientific research results, provided that the rules on animal welfare are complied with.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it calls on the commission to reconsider introducing eight-hour limits to current animal transport legislation. i also voted for the alternative motion for resolution tabled before this report because i am in favour of stronger legislation to protect animals in transport. the amr sought to remove exemptions for weather, which reduces the effectiveness of the eight-hour limit. however, as this fell, i was happy to support the wojciechowski report as it calls for a revision of current regulation in relation to the latest scientific evidence and thus represents a positive step forward, whilst protecting the interests of farmers living in outermost regions with a geographical exemption.
in writing. − explanation of vote - wojciechowski report: protection of animals during transport i am very supportive of animal welfare measures. at the same time i want to ensure that the interests of thoroughbred and livestock breeders and our farming industry are properly protected. there is no contradiction in this. the report focuses on the conditions that all farm animals are kept in whilst being transported to slaughter. a distinction has to be maintained between the transportation of animals for slaughter and for other reasons. in the uk, and in the east of england, the thoroughbred industry has an excellent record on transport conditions, and of course, has an interest in seeing that its horses are treated well in transit. the report calls for a reconsideration of the blanket eight-hour limit on journeys to slaughter, taking into account instead geographic conditions, sparse road networks and remote locations. it importantly stresses that existing legislation must be better enforced through increased inspections of lorries carrying animals to slaughter and the imposition of sanctions where appropriate. this is largely a continental problem. for these reasons, i felt able to support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an end to poor transport conditions for animals. i support the recommendations in this report, which include the possible implementation of an eight-hour limit on journey times and more effective enforcement of existing legislation, as well as more punitive measures for those who breach transportation guidelines. long journeys to abattoirs should also be avoided by easing the decline of small, local slaughterhouses, a move that would promote animal welfare and promote local processing. these recommendations are an important first step in ensuring that animal suffering is reduced as much as possible.
in writing. − i supported this own-initiative report, which calls on the commission to improve regulation governing the transport of animals for slaughter. the report calls for the commission to ensure existing rules are properly enforced. it also calls for the commission to strengthen those rules by proposing a number of measures aimed at improving the welfare of animals being transported to slaughter so that they are not subjected to unnecessary suffering. these include demanding a proper, science-based review of welfare standards and a minimum journey time of eight hours for horses being transported for slaughter. the eight-hour limit was a key issue for labour meps and our constituents; a europe-wide campaign calling for this received over a million signatures. we were disappointed to see some of the demands of the report watered down by those on the right in the parliament but, as the call for an eight-hour limit on the transport of horses was maintained, we ultimately supported it.
in writing. − i supported this report which looked in detail at the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in the period 2010-11. these reports provide a valuable opportunity to review performance across the european union in ensuring that fundamental rights are upheld and promoted. i know that these are issues of particular concern to my constituents in wales. in the week we learned that the number of welsh speakers has fallen over the past decade, i particularly welcome that the report "calls on member states to take action to combat discrimination suffered by members of linguistic minorities" this year, the report also highlighted particular fundamental rights violations affecting migrants, national minorities and the lgbt community. the european commission needs to take stronger, co-ordinated action in dealing with fundamental rights violations, including those faced by linguistic minorities.
in writing. − this report deals with issues which lie at the very heart of the eu and it refers explicitly to article 2 teu. article 2 in turn refers to freedom and democracy. the edinburgh agreement recently signed by the uk and scottish governments is founded on that democratic principle: that the people of scotland have the right to decide upon scotland’s constitutional future. the commission is bound too by article 2 and mr barroso should bear this in mind when next pontificating on the subject of scottish independence.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which: ‘deplores the fact that not all member states have properly transposed the council framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law; calls on member states to prosecute xenophobia, racism, anti-gypsyism and other forms of violence and hatred against any minority groups, including hate speech; calls on the member states to ensure that bias-motivated offences, such as those with racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic, islamophobic, homophobic or transphobic intent are punishable within the criminal law system, that these offences are properly registered and investigated effectively, that offenders are prosecuted and punished, and that victims are offered proper assistance, protection and compensation; recalls that on 1 december 2014 this framework decision will become fully enforceable’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of upholding fundamental rights in the european union. i believe this resolution is necessary to ensure that fundamental rights are respected for all eu citizens, regardless of their race, gender or religion. in the pursuit of working towards a safer eu, european governments and institutions will be called on to prosecute xenophobia, racism, and prejudice against the roma people, which are of particular concern in some eu member states. i believe this resolution, which has my full support, is crucial for the european parliament as we must recognise our responsibility in protecting and serving the citizens of the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr donskis, on this report, which highlights multiple areas of concern throughout the world. i particularly like the emphasis on freedom of expression and religion, having long championed christian minority rights in the communist and islamic worlds. i also welcome the further engagement of the high representative in promoting shared values. but my group still remains unconvinced by the need for an eusr for human rights, given the current involvement of member states and the external action service already in this area. perhaps, however, mr lambrinidis, who i see over there, in office, will convince me otherwise. in addition, i particularly support the universal protection of human rights defenders and journalists in the report and feel very strongly about countries subject to repeated human rights resolutions of this parliament, such as pakistan, iran, belarus, north korea and, once again, china, where insufficient attention is being paid to the plight of the tibetans. the further deterioration of human rights in russia is also of ongoing concern. however, there are a number of passages in the report which are simply too prescriptive, in particular those relating to human rights in trade agreements, the icc, the un security council, cia rendition, and asylum and immigration, which fall outside the scope of the eu’s competences. in the tavares report we have similar concerns, also about being too prescriptive in its approach to the role of the delegations of this parliament in monitoring such matters which, while well intentioned, risk overburdening the committees with bureaucratic regulations and costs. but the thrust of this report is generally positive and something which my group will welcome. the ecr is fully committed to promoting fundamental human rights in the world. however, these occasionally need to be balanced with other interests. we also recognise that we cannot always impose our values on other cultures, and the definition of universal human rights is often contested, particularly when concerning the death penalty and abortion rights. these two, in particular, remain conscience matters for individual members of our own group.
mr president, i am going to start with a quote from the bible: ‘thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the speck out of thy brother’s eye’. on human rights the hypocrite’s beam is the european arrest warrant. its consequence is that 60 million british citizens and residents fall under the jurisdiction of continental europe’s harsh and alien legal systems. it is no exaggeration to say that potentially we are all at risk. if this assembly is to be taken seriously on human rights, instead of wittering away about violations in countries where we have no influence – like india, as the gentleman did there – it would be much better if you instead joined the campaign for immediate suspension of the european arrest warrant prior to its abolition. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask the earl of dartmouth if he is content to leave britain and its citizens prey to some of the worst organised major criminals who launder money and smuggle drugs, people and firearms and would smuggle terrorists as well if the uk was not in the european arrest warrant. sure it needs improving, but people like me have been on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for a very long time and have actually worked actively to improve the european arrest warrant and institute defence safeguards, whereas he just shouts on the sidelines and would leave britain open to all the worst criminals and indeed see it become a safe haven for criminals. they used to be on the costa del sol. then they would be in the uk.
blue-card answer. – the reason why britain has become a safe haven for criminals, for example for abu qatada, is because of the european court of human rights and the sooner we withdraw from that the better. please join me in that campaign as well. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – what we support is the position as it was before, which is that before anyone could be extradited the british judge had the right to review the primary evidence. what we are opposed to is the position, as in the assange case, whereby a prosecutor can simply fill in the forms for an arrest warrant and there is no control and no supervision. that is our position and i put it to you that it is an entirely credible one.
mr president, once again we are dealing with the annual human rights report and, following the strategic review, we are making progress. the european endowment for democracy is established, as is our own parliament’s democracy support directorate. unlike the british conservatives, i take great pleasure in the fact that the european union special representative on human rights – a post we called for – is here in this debate and has already undertaken valuable work on russia and on the african union, concerning which he is in deep discussion with us. thank you. mr donskis, you have produced an excellent report, and i commend the personal attention you have given to the issues of selective justice, the proposal for a procedural mechanism in relation to the human rights clause and your proper concern about abuses in psychiatric institutions. i also commend mr tavares and the contact group you have initiated, which has strengthened parliament’s active role in support of human rights. i commend the presidency speech this afternoon and celebrate with the presidency the fact that europe has acted in the un to co-sponsor the resolution this year on human rights defenders and to help build the successful coalition in support of the resolution for sexual orientation and gender identity, and has taken the lead in proposing the international commission of inquiry on syria. however, it has taken too long for the council to agree the common position on icc referral for syria. we must now act urgently to build international support in order to enact it at the level of the security council. the eu must also honour the commitment and the strategy to promote human rights without exception, and that means ending the relative silence in relation to violations in the gulf and in central asia. as i said last year, culture change has to happen in the external action service, and this is only just beginning. my proposal for human rights criteria in the professional performance review of staff should be enacted. currently in the process of drafting this parliament’s report on business and human rights, having recently returned from being chief observer at the elections in sierra leone and next week leading this parliament’s human rights mission to bahrain, i take great personal pride in contributing to this parliament’s and this union’s human rights efforts. but in the week of the nobel and of the sakharov prizes, president, those we celebrate in this debate are the people – inspirational people – who are human rights defenders and who keep human rights defenders alive in countries and in situations around the world where they are in greatest danger.
mr president, the award of the nobel peace prize and the sakharov award today certainly make it necessary for the eu to practise what it preaches. i have one particular challenge on this. i am delighted to see that mr donskis’s excellent report includes the continuing problem of eu-based pharmaceutical companies exporting death penalty drugs to third countries, including the united states. to shy away from this issue would give tacit approval to eu complicity in the barbaric practice of capital punishment, which we in this european parliament deplore almost without exception. i was very sorry to hear the british conservative charles tannock reiterate that the death penalty is a matter of conscience for his group. i do not understand how they can expect to be in the eu. anyway i am pleased that mr donskis’s report includes a call for the commission to amend the 2005 regulation to require prior authorisation of export of these drugs, which can be used in lethal injections for capital punishment, so that we prevent new or rebranded drugs slipping through the net. i am also delighted to see mr lambrinidis here and i hope that perhaps we can work together on this particular issue. i would like to applaud those european companies as well as governments, which include the uk government, which have taken steps to address this matter, but more needs to be done. finally, i would just like to commend the report’s inclusion of the appalling problem of oppressive blasphemy laws used in some countries to persecute those of a differing religion. it was very nice to hear sharin ebadi, in particular, talk about the problem in iran. last week in brussels many of us attended the event organised by the ahmadiyyah muslim community, which in fact mr tannock presided over. their work campaigning for peace and interfaith dialogue has attracted international praise, yet their members who live in pakistan and other countries like indonesia face discrimination, persecution, disenfranchisement and even death. so we must work more on these oppressive blasphemy laws.
mr president, mr donskis is quite rightly concerned about selective justice under the guise of the rule of law, but of course only in new and transitional democracies. in a number of eu member states it is possible to be jailed for stating one’s views on immigration or expressing an opinion on academic subjects. honest tyrannies that admit expressly to jailing people for being opponents are rare indeed. nearly all tyrannies inside and outside the eu pretend that they are adhering to the rule of law but in fact they have passed laws which are tailor-made for their political opponents. france is probably the worst culprit in the eu, where the incautious choice of a word, detail or debate might lead to prosecution, as might the posing of an unfavoured analogy or comparison between events. ms le pen is the latest victim of such a prosecution. such countries are not so much democracies as gulags or prison camps.
thank you, mr tavares, i am sorry, we forgot to start the clock but you have made your points and i am sure they are shared by many in the house. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 13 december 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by hannes swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on containing the european parliament’s recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations of the new eu-russia agreement ((2011/2050(ini)) (a7-0338/2012). on this occasion the commission is represented by ms malmström whom we welcome to the chamber.
mr president, russia is a strategic partner for the eu with vast oil, gas and mineral reserves. as a neighbour it shares a border with the eu and there are large numbers of russophone people across europe, including in the london region i represent. we need good political relations on a number of fronts, including cooperation over delicate areas such as relations with north korea, what is happening in the south caucasus, and the middle east peace process. sadly russia has so far refused to budge over syria and is pushing hard to re-establish a post-soviet sphere of influence which would encompass ukraine, belarus and central asia in a eurasian union. i profoundly regret the deterioration in recent years in russia on human rights questions, including a climate of increasing impunity and corruption, as we saw over the magnitsky, litvinyenko and khodorkovsky cases, as well as the excessive prison sentence passed down to the members of pussy riot and recent proposals for anti-lgbt laws. of course we need russia as a strong wto trading partner – it is a massive supplier of gas to our markets – and of course we deeply respect its culture and history, but we will not refrain from reminding it of its obligations as a member of the council of europe and of the osce in terms of fundamental democratic values and the rule of law.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as all students of political history know, a revolution represents not transformation but transition. egypt could not have been expected to create fully-democratic institutions overnight, but nevertheless certain recent acts by president morsi are to be roundly condemned. the drafting of the new constitution should have reached out beyond his islamist power base of the muslim brotherhood and, in failing to do so, it alienated vast swathes of the egyptian population. more seriously, his attempts to extend his powers by a huge margin and put himself beyond the legal reach of the country’s judiciary would have gravely compromised hard-won recent freedoms, a fact borne out by the massive popular resistance, which happily now seems to have forced a partial reversal of the decree. nevertheless, there are signs for cautious optimism. today we have heard that the opposition is likely to participate in the upcoming constitutional referendum rather than boycotting it. on a wider level, the ecr welcomes lady ashton’s taskforce for egypt, which promises economic assistance in return for real democratic progress in that country. finally, as a group, we stress the need to respect the religious freedom of the coptic christian minority, who feel threatened by a parliament and a government dominated by the muslim brotherhood, and by sharia being the sole legal basis within the constitution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while the ecr greatly sympathises with palestinian frustrations, their successful effort to win observer status at the un provoked justifiable anger in the eyes of the israeli government who have offered much evidence to support their claims of a material breach of the 1993 oslo peace accords. nevertheless, the israeli response in my view was counterproductive. my group, the ecr, has consistently opposed the construction of new settlements, expansion obviously being an obstacle to lasting peace and a viable two-state solution, and the latest israeli announcements have not helped their cause. nevertheless it is vital to point out in israel’s favour that the much-discussed e1 corridor is in a preliminary planning phase and the government did not announce any imminent construction work. they have also provided a robust defence for withholding palestinian authority funds in order to pay israeli companies, particularly the electricity company which is owed a lot of money. this situation now, however, must be de-escalated before it becomes a full-blown crisis. we ask both the israeli government and the palestinian authority to display courage, humility and wise heads and to return to the negotiating table without delay in order to have a two-state solution.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would congratulate my colleague on her speech, which was very strong and meaningful. but when she talks about the peace process, would she not agree with me that one of the main barriers to the peace process is hamas’s refusal to recognise the state of israel? she failed to mention that at all. that is really the first step towards peace and a two-state solution in this matter. i invite her to call on hamas to recognise the state of israel.
mr president, the israeli announcement was, of course, a most regrettable, unhelpful but not wholly unexpected reaction to the unilateral action in the un general assembly on statehood by the palestinian authority. that action flew in the face of the oslo accords on a negotiated solution. i do not remember any resolution of this parliament condemning it. i am sure many of us have expressed our deep concern and extreme frustration to the israelis that they should act in the way that they have. we know that the security situation and the pressure of the elections early in the new year led to statements and actions which would not be contemplated in calmer times. whether or not there is any construction on the e1 site (and i doubt that there will be) is really not the point. my concern is that the israeli announcements distract attention from the real problems in the region. with gaza as a cauldron for terrorism, the palestinian authority area remains divided, with mahmoud abbas currently having no say in gaza and being absent from negotiations. there is also a question mark over the extent of hamas penetration of the west bank, and with a hamas ally now in power in egypt are we now to start thinking about a three-state solution, i wonder? our eye, of course, is being taken off the iran threat. may i just conclude by saying what the eu might usefully do? perhaps act where it has real leverage – realistically, that means with the palestinians. we have given over eur 5 billion in aid, and i wonder what return there is on this investment. they need to come back to the conference table, and we should encourage them to do so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am astonished by a lot of the things i hear in this parliament, i have to say. of course, in this case the palestinian action was deliberately politically provocative. it was unhelpful. it flies in the face of the oslo accords. we need a negotiated settlement. how was this helpful? we need to get back to the conference table. we need to exert pressure on the palestinians to do just that. the sort of stuff that we are hearing from here merely encourages them in an entirely different direction.
mr president, the israeli government’s decision to expand the illegal settlements in the west bank is a blatant retaliation against the palestinian people after their recent success in the united nations. this act of aggression, which continues that government’s disregard for international law, must be condemned at the highest level. in addition to this, the decision of the israeli government to withhold palestinian tax revenues to the sum of usd 100 million only serves to disrupt the peace negotiations and endanger the fragile stability of the region. any genuine solution to the crisis will only be born out of mutual respect. the eu’s relations with israel must be conditional on its respect for international humanitarian law. therefore i urge the council and the commission to freeze any upgrading in relations until the situation shows tangible improvements.
mr president, i welcome the council’s declaration on ukraine, which recognises the european aspirations of this large, strategic country, of which i am very fond. there is now a clear commitment and political will on both sides to sign an association agreement. my group, the ecr, would furthermore endorse a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with this country, which would offer benefits to all parties. hopefully, this can be concluded by november 2013. nevertheless we cannot ignore the legitimate concerns pertaining to ukraine over human rights matters, and in particular the way the executive continues to pursue a policy of selective justice which keeps yulia tymoshenko in prison and lets others go free. my group therefore once again appeals to president yanukovych to release her. there were also irregularities in the recent parliamentary elections. however these were not nearly as significant as some of us had feared. there was no evidence of mass falsification, and the opposition now occupies half of the parliament seats. so, with this somewhat mixed bag, we further encourage and welcome ukraine’s european engagement. the alternative, the eurasian union, with authoritarian belarus, kazakhstan and russia, would pull the country at large, and its talented people, in the wrong direction. in my view, ukraine deserves much better.
mr president, i was an international observer in the ukraine elections. i had unrestricted access in kiev to polling stations, election officials and party activists. i have seen corrupt elections where gangs of thugs sponsored by the prime minister attack opposition activists; where council workers are threatened with losing their jobs if they vote the wrong way on ballot papers that carry traceable serial marks; where two million voters do not even exist but still vote by post; where, at the close of polls, unsealed ballot boxes are taken to central counting places by unsupervised officials; where the election officials are appointed by the local ruling party. but all these assaults on democracy go on routinely in the united kingdom. in ukraine i saw a robust and well-designed system, ensuring elections which, while not perfect, are much freer and fairer than those in britain. eu hypocrites do not have any right to criticise ukrainian elections.
madam president, the commissioner gave a very extensive survey of what the commission is doing in relation to two areas. first of all, commissioner, you mentioned humanitarian assistance in relation to what the eu is currently doing and then you talked about a relatively modest number of applications coming to the european union. you talked about 16 000. eurostat are talking about 25 000 applications. i think my colleague mr lópez aguilar talked about listening to your strategy. i have now heard colleagues talk about the strain on particular countries such as greece. this makes me think that the purpose of this oral question is to ask you to delve a bit deeper into understanding that there is no immediate political solution here. therefore we are moving from more humanitarian assistance to clearly higher numbers of refugees who will come to the european union, and who will then have to go to other countries within the european union. now, in that event, there has to be some strategy to avoid the kinds of sensitivities and political problems that we have seen elsewhere. we are seeing on our television screens the huge strain on countries like lebanon, turkey, jordan, egypt and yes, the first neighbouring european union countries. to avoid this, exactly what are going to be the border or entry management procedures, the family reunification measures, the resettlement procedures? please go into more depth on what the strategy is going to be, given that there are not going to be immediate political solutions to this. i think colleagues want to see a wider, deeper strategy. you have given some good answers, but please go into some more depth, because the humanitarian assistance is now going to give way to higher numbers of refugees coming to the european union as a result of this crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the fundamental rights agency is of course one of those agencies on which my group has certain mixed feelings. on the one hand, it does valuable work in collecting and disseminating data on topics relating to fundamental rights but, on the other hand, it sometimes doubles up on the work the commission is already doing. it also has a tendency to push out the boundaries of its areas of work instead of remaining focused on the basic criteria under which it was established. however, my group much appreciates the work of the agency, particularly in areas such as the rights of the child, victims’ rights, discrimination and intolerance. what we do not really appreciate is the determination by the agency, the commission and sometimes colleagues here in parliament, to expand the work into the very sensitive areas of police and judicial cooperation. we believe the member states should be the main drivers of cooperation and collaboration in those areas, and of course they should also have their own fundamental rights watchdogs in place in the member states. as a uk conservative, i can say that my government generally supports the deal that is now on the table, but owing to constitutional and legal requirements we are required to go through a parliamentary scrutiny procedure before confirming our support. i have heard other speakers referring to that fact. it is a necessary requirement in the uk. i do, however, hope that the matter is concluded successfully and in the meantime i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for her work in this general area and for the remarks that she has made to us this morning.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i staunchly advocate the need for a society built upon tolerance and equality, yet what we have here in the form of the fundamental rights agency is a wasteful, unnecessary and fraudulent operation which undermines the very objectives it purports to represent. in 2004, a study carried out by the agency’s predecessor on anti-semitism in europe seriously massaged statistics to suggest that white nationalists, rather than muslim youths, were the main perpetrators of anti-jewish racist incidents, a ploy that the president of the european jewish congress, cobi benatoff, attacked as intellectual dishonesty and moral treachery. a recent study on homophobia, costing eur 370 000, did not even have a mechanism to verify responses and, as such, could not deliver any conclusive report on attitudes and trends in europe. the agency costs gbp 20 million a year, an utterly ridiculous amount of money when in the uk we have our well-functioning equality and human rights commission. even amnesty international has been a critic of the fundamental rights agency, which largely duplicates the work of extant organisations and, where it does carry out independent research, has demonstrated that the research is subject to such manipulation it is actually of detriment to honest efforts to protect fundamental rights.
mr president, i have to say that i was not aware that there is a rule that you lose your speaking time if you ask a question. it seems to be contrary to the spirit of parliamentary debate. however, if that is the case, i will resile on this request to pose a question to mr bufton because he used the word ‘fraudulent’, which i thought was slightly over the top. but i will speak in my due turn.
mr president, the eu agency on fundamental rights is something whose necessity – particularly at a time of economic austerity – and value added i remain sceptical about, given the overlapping roles of the council of europe, the european court of human rights, the osce, etc. i nevertheless support the agency’s efforts to improve the lives of ordinary citizens by combating discrimination and promoting human rights. it is clear that a mandate has been provided to tackle, amongst other things, racism, homophobia, violence against women and children: issues which continue to blight the lives of far too many people within the union. i also fully sign up to the new proposals to extend the remit to roma integration, particularly given the long history on our continent of persecution and marginalisation of that community. even now the roma are treated as second-class citizens by many states and anything that can be done to improve their social and economic position is much to be welcomed. in addition, unlike many speakers, i support the council’s veto regarding the agency’s right to meddle in police and judicial cooperation matters, which are far better dealt with elsewhere. so whilst i maintain considerable reservations about the functionality of the agency, particularly against the backdrop of the current financial crisis and the need to economise, i welcome its new mandate and look forward to assessing its progress in the coming years. over this period it must meet the challenges of rights and liberties in an increasingly globalised world, where the eu is rightly held to its highest standards.
mr president, commissioner, i share your frustration on this issue. as a member from the united kingdom, i would like to say to my government that it must make up its mind whether it is in or whether it is out. when it comes to human rights, i believe that it is doing itself enormous damage on the international stage. i have prepared a speech, but i will disregard it. i would say to those honourable members who have spoken against this that it is precisely because you are against it that i am in favour of it. what do we have to fear from being held accountable for our human rights record? what do we have to fear from the promotion and the defence of human rights? people in these galleries expect that this union is a union based on fundamental values. it was born out of the ashes of the second world war and a determination that we would never see a repeat of minorities being taken away and scapegoated simply because they were different. their human rights were trashed. so let me say to you, with your excuses about budgets, staff, costs, management, administration: do you know what? you know the cost of everything and the value of nothing. human rights are priceless, and we on this side of the house will vote this through, because a negative vote will do the dirty work of those member states that want to obstruct this agency and do not want to be held accountable for their human rights record. commissioner, i am with you.
author. − mr president, it gives me very great pleasure to present this question, and i am delighted that my group is leading on this. we were the first group to table this question. i think it shows how much importance we attach to having a suite of growth policies in place, but particularly those tools really needed to create jobs in the real economy without creating huge drains on investment for already overstretched public treasuries. i will not go through all the elements of this report in my two minutes, but i just want to highlight two. first of all, i want to talk about opportunities in the european single market. i am delighted that my colleague mr creutzmann’s question addresses the same theme. this shows that there are many people here thinking alike. this is the biggest unexploited opportunity to get jobs really moving and to get those essential small businesses off the ground. our history shows that it is small enterprises that have consistently created more jobs than in any other sector over the last ten years. in the services area, where we have created new opportunities for businesses to get information to start businesses easily in other countries, we must exploit that. but most governments are not promoting these opportunities. they are not using the tools that we have already put in place. secondly, on the digital single market, i am inundated with reports. every week, i get a fresh report showing the importance of investment in digital infrastructure and its exploitation by business in creating jobs. i want to thank viviane reding for the part that she played in this when she was commissioner for communications and telecommunications. we need to take advantage of this. we need to accentuate that investment. we need to get more businesses online. that is the one growth area in our economy. the latest reports show that the european union is the largest region in the world for e-commerce. now that is a huge prize to be exploited. we have opportunities and we have tools. why are we not engaging our governments, with the support of the commission and others, in using these tools and coming out and creating those new jobs and opportunities?
mr president, the investment famine is forcing millions onto the dole, reducing living standards and relentlessly depressing the domestic economy. the crippling banking debt, loaded onto the shoulders of taxpayers, is freezing country after country out of the sovereign bond market. the futile policies of austerity not only failed to resolve the problem and the crisis, but are actually making it worse. banks, which are awash with cash, could simply be instructed to lend for investment and growth, which would provide much-needed social capital, create employment and bring about recovery. the obstacle to growth is not a lack of fiscal discipline. you cannot balance the books with mass unemployment. you cannot cut and tax your way out of that crisis. only with real and substantial investment and jobs can you return to growth and, in doing so, reduce public deficit to substantial and sustainable levels.
mr president, many members here will be very disappointed by the news that the european court of justice has overturned this parliament’s decision to reduce the number of times we travel to strasbourg. i believe it is the settled will of this parliament that we have one seat, and i would ask president schulz to convey that to the council this afternoon. (applause)
mr president, eleven eu countries are in favour of establishing the financial transaction tax through enhanced cooperation. this is a foolish proposal. it is not stamp duty; it is a deeply flawed tax on half a million jobs. it might just work if it were global, but even that is not certain. the commission has said yes to enhanced cooperation. we must be sceptical about the use of enhanced cooperation in this area, not least because the decision bypasses the required unanimity in the council on matters of taxation. i represent the city of london: paradoxically, we might actually benefit from this, as business comes our way. our uk chancellor and finance minister, george osborne, has said that the commission itself believes the ftt would have a serious impact on european growth, hit the british economy as well, and could reduce eu gdp by up to 3.5%. the commission now thinks that it will actually only be about 1.76%, but that percentage difference is going to cost half a million jobs across the european union. can the european union really afford to alienate people further at a time of austerity and shoot itself in the foot?
mr president, this proposal is the thin end of a giant eu wedge. it is an attempt to introduce harmonised eu taxation and a common tax regime for the eu. it is intended to save the euro zone, but it is a bit like a drowning man pulling others down with him. while it only applies to eleven countries now, it will be expanded. you can see that happening. the city of london, as one of the largest financial centres in the world, will be its aim. therefore, i vigorously oppose this proposal. the dutch finance minister called it catastrophic, and the swedish finance minister called it a very dangerous thing. this is a disastrous proposal and i voted to veto it.
mr president, too often we see members of this chamber passing international law on things that could be decided nationally and then turning a blind eye to issues where we actually do need international agreement. i am pleased, therefore, that we voted on new rules for horses travelling to slaughterhouses. in my constituency is the home of world horse welfare, which has exposed horrific images of horses travelling from the eastern borders of europe, across country after country after country, to slaughterhouses in central and southern europe. these really horrific pictures show how those horses were treated on that journey. we have to agree journey time limits. we do not want to stop farmers with other species of livestock from being able to get their animals to slaughterhouses in remote areas, but this treatment of horses crossing border after border without rest is cruel and must stop.
mr president, ten years ago i was the co-author of a successful written declaration on the issue of live transport of animals, calling for an eight-hour limit and a 500-kilometre limit. since that time we have seen a massive increase in the number of live animals transported – in the case of pigs, a 70% increase. it also affects cattle, sheep and horses. two-thirds of the transport sadly lasts longer than eight hours. long-distance transport causes animals great suffering and gives rise to costs which are ultimately borne by our consumers. contrary to the commission, the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament, like myself, believe that this situation requires urgent attention. as a strong champion of animal welfare, i wish to see effective and uniform enforcement of existing legislation on animal transport assured across all eu member states. i would also like to see more animals slaughtered close to their places of rearing, and thus transported on the hook rather than on the hoof.
mr president, albania has had a frequently unhappy history in recent years but it has also made progress more recently towards achieving a truly democratic and prosperous state, partly incentivised by the prospects of eu membership. i particularly welcome in the report the moves on legal, judicial and administrative reform, as well as efforts to amend the electoral code, crack down on trafficking and improve victim protection. at a political level it is vital that albanian parties – who are known for bickering – cooperate in an atmosphere free of overt nationalism to reform national institutions, and particularly their parliament, and promote both a pluralistic media and the inviolable rights of self-expression and free assembly. we also welcome the albanian government’s constructive engagement with neighbouring balkan states. as with other balkan countries, the issue of minority rights is important. there are real concerns still about the roma population and the rights of women and children, the disabled and lgbt people, but i do feel confident that with the eu’s assistance and encouragement, albania can continue to make significant progress on all these fronts and eventually realise its european aspirations.
in writing. − i voted for the new multiannual framework even though it could be greatly improved. i welcome the inclusion of discrimination based on sex and of roma integration. i have worked closely with roma communities in wales, particularly young people, and i hope that this will support the excellent work they do on human rights issues. i regret that multiple discrimination and social rights were not included and i note that the uk parliament has delayed formal adoption of the framework for several months to scrutinise it further but i supported the rapporteur in giving consent now because the framework is so essential.
in writing. − i voted for this but i agree with the rapporteur that the multiannual framework of the agency for the period 2013-2017 could and should be formulated better. first, the rapporteur agrees with the fundamental rights platform, the agency’s management board and the european group of national human rights institutions that the agency’s area of work should explicitly encompass social rights and a particular role with regard to the independent monitoring of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). also the thematic area concerning roma integration should preferably be reformulated. in the meantime, the rapporteur welcomes the inclusion of discrimination based on sex into the proposal of the council – all areas mentioned in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights are to be covered by the agency’s work. the concept of multiple discrimination should also be explicitly mentioned and included.
in writing. − written declarations are an important element of parliamentary work. i have supported a number of these at the request of my constituents in wales. however, it is important that they are used to raise serious issue that need a parliamentary response so that they are not devalued. that is why i voted for this proposal from the constitutional affairs committee.
in writing. − mr president, i voted for this rule change as it encourages the more effective use of written declarations, as well as strengthening the procedure for members to propose legislative acts for consideration, which i believe is more democratic, workable and cost-effective for the taxpayer. at present, up to five members may sign any written declaration. the new rules will require that at least ten members coming from at least three different political groups sign before it can be authorised. this rule change will reduce the number of frivolous declarations and help promote those which are more likely to attract a sufficient level of support across parliament.
in writing. − i welcome this rule change. written declarations have a very limited impact, in terms of both agenda-setting and influencing decisions taken by the institutions, and may give a misleading impression as to their effectiveness. when properly used, however, they still retain value as a popular campaigning tool. for proposals calling for legislative action, rule 42(2) should be used, giving individual members a real opportunity to influence union legislation and to incorporate a given proposal into the work of parliament’s committees.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report including on an amendment that the eu should do more to abolish the death penalty. this is an issue on which i receive many letters from constituents and in particular from churches in wales. i co-signed amendment 2 on respect for human rights in western sahara and expressing concern at the deteriorating situation there and i was pleased that parliament adopted this amendment. there is a very active western sahara campaign based in wales and i work closely with them.
in writing. − i voted for this report which: ‘welcomes the positive impact on coherence of eu internal and external policies of the eu’s exercise of its legal personality created by the lisbon treaty to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) in december 2010; calls for a similar approach to be taken to other international human rights treaties and conventions; calls for the council and commission to take a proactive approach in this area in order to address the negative effects of the piecemeal signature and ratification among eu member states of other important external treaties and conventions’.
in writing. − the ecr group supports human rights and equality for all. there is much within this report which we support including freedom of expression and religion, the building and support of new democracies and the rule of law, the protection of human rights defenders around the world, and the protection of rights for women and children. however, there are still a number of passages contained within the report which are overly prescriptive and fall outside the scope of the eu’s competences, or are a matter of conscience for individuals. for these reasons the ecr group abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − this annual report on the eu’s strategy on human rights and democracy examines how the eu can improve its work in these areas, and i fully support its findings. it calls upon the eu to step up its efforts to liaise with civil society rather than merely focusing on contact with authorities and to maintain its work with institutions such as the un and the icc. the eu should take advantage of its substantial global influence and assume responsibility on human rights issues, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls for a more consistent and coherent approach to human rights by the eu. the current economic crisis has to be taken into account, for example. i know how badly it has affected families in wales and women in particular. it has an influence too on how the eu is perceived in the world. an important clause in the report is one calling for enforceable human rights clauses to be included in all agreements concluded by the eu. this is an issue on which i have received a lot of correspondence from constituents in wales. people expect the eu to maintain high standards on human rights and i believe the recommendations in this report will help do that, particularly as it was adopted unanimously.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which: ‘stresses that human rights and democracy objectives necessarily require specific, measurable, achievable, public criteria aimed at assessing the level of respect for fundamental freedoms, human rights and rule of law; considers, in this connection, that the eu should make full use of the relevant instruments and expertise of the un and of the council of europe, including the implementation of the european convention on human rights as a viable element of such a human rights and democracy benchmark catalogue for the member countries of the council of europe, and should clearly differentiate its political conclusions from a legal and technical evaluation’.
in writing. − i voted for this report to support the ongoing negotiations between the eu and russia whilst drawing attention at the same time to the failure of russia to adopt democratic values. people in wales, like people throughout europe, were shocked at the imprisonment of the members of the band pussy riot and an amendment from my group calling for their release was overwhelmingly adopted.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution in which parliament reasserts firmly that the repeated attempts to curtail human rights – notably freedom of expression and assembly including in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity – at regional and federal levels, run counter to russia’s commitments under its constitution, the european convention on human rights, and the international covenant on civil and political rights.
in writing. − on my recent fact-finding mission to the west bank i saw very clearly the effect of the israeli settlements on palestinian towns and villages and on jerusalem itself. i learned in some detail of the israeli government’s expansion plans for the settlements, which would undermine the prospects of a viable palestinian state. i have regular meetings with groups and individuals in wales who share my concern and many of whom have visited palestine themselves. there is an active palestine solidarity network in wales. as a supporter of the two-state solution, i am deeply concerned at recent announcements and of the actions by the israeli government in withholding palestinian tax revenues. i believe that the eu can do more to help relaunch a peace process and i therefore voted for this motion.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which stresses that israeli settlements in the west bank and in east jerusalem are illegal under international law, and calls for an immediate, complete and permanent freeze on all israeli settlement construction and expansion activities, and for a stop to further evictions of palestinian families from their homes and the demolition of palestinian houses. it further deeply regrets the decision by the israeli government to withhold usd 100 million in palestinian tax revenues, which undermines the palestinian authority’s budget, and calls for the immediate transfer of these revenues; it also encourages involved parties to settle all outstanding financial disputes under the mediation of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution from the main political groups which expresses regret that recent elections in the ukraine did not meet international standards. i know that my constituents in wales demand full respect for human rights in any cooperation between the eu and third countries.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which makes a strong appeal to the ukrainian authorities to find, together with the european parliament’s envoys, aleksander kwasniewski and pat cox, a reasonable and just solution to the tymoshenko case, and urges the ukrainian government to respect and implement the final decisions of the european court of human rights on the ongoing case of yulia tymoshenko and yuri lutsenko.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on albania’s progress towards eu accession. it is clear that albania has much work to do in the areas of justice and democracy before it can really move forward. there are also concerns about corruption. there has been some progress but albanian politicians are not working together in the interests of the people in government or in parliament. we have seen delays in some welsh legislation because of a lack of cooperation but in albania’s case there are three laws which are essential to the country’s accession process but are actually being blocked in parliament because of political power struggles. i hope that the message from the european parliament will have a positive affect.
in writing. − i supported this resolution on albania and welcome the fact that it stresses that anti-trafficking law enforcement and victim protection efforts should be intensified, and calls for the adoption of the strategy for justice for children and the execution of judicial decisions, which is a basic prerequisite for a functioning and effective judiciary.
in writing. − the steel industry has been a crucial factor in wales’s industrial past and still plays an important role in our economy. the recent loss of 600 jobs at the tata plants was a huge blow to communities and families in wales. nevertheless, the company’s assurances that investment will go ahead give some reassurance. i voted in favour of amendments which would allow for government support to be considered for the steel industry. the resolution called for monitoring and coordination of eu steel policy and maintaining technical know-how in the eu which is essential, but the environmental dimension of the report was weak and i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution as i did not feel that it adequately dealt with the serious crisis facing the eu steel industry.
in writing. − i welcome the call in this resolution for the commission and the council to develop a new policy for the steel industry which will boost growth and employment during the economic crisis and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents.
in writing. − labour meps voted for the resolution on the eu steel industry as we firmly believe that a strategy is needed to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry across the eu and preserve jobs in this vital sector. however, we voted against paragraph 13, which singled out certain towns for special preference, as recent job losses in places like port talbot and rotherham show this is not just a problem that affects the steel industry in belgium, france or italy but one that affects the industry across the whole of the eu. therefore this resolution should reflect this and not just be specific to certain areas.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the eu steel industry because i firmly believe that a strategy is needed to improve the competitiveness of the steel industry across the eu. however, i voted against paragraph 13, which singled out certain towns for special preference. as recent job losses in places like port talbot and rotherham show, this is not just a problem that affects the steel industry in belgium, france or italy but one that affects the industry across the whole of the eu. therefore this resolution should reflect this and not just be specific to certain areas.
