madam prime minister, good luck in the presidency for the next six months! i would like to make two specific proposals to supplement or improve the commission's existing policy. in the energy sector, your presidency could take the initiative of listing all existing sources of energy in europe. we must know which energy sources are available in the european union and which of the investments we are making in the energy sector are not realistic, for example, we have photovoltaics in countries that do not have solar. the existing sources of energy must therefore be recorded. the second proposal is to take an initiative in the field of employment. the wall street journal yesterday reported on the great exodus of workers from the european union. we must look at this change in the fabric of the european union's labour market. i propose these two initiatives in the fields of energy and employment.
madam prime minister, i wish you a successful presidency. the six-month rotating presidency is a major symbol of the democratic functioning of the european union. but it leaves little room for any real influence on things. the danish presidency will be in office for six months, and this is a crucial time for the future of europe and its citizens. it is clear that the institutions of the union have been replaced by an informal directorate, which has not succeeded. we hope that the new president, mr schulz, whom we elected yesterday, will try to reverse this situation. greece, madam prime minister, is proof of the failure of europe's economic policy, followed by italy and all the other countries of the south. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. take steps to improve the situation.
in writing. i would like to wish denmark good luck in assuming the presidency of the council of the eu at a crucial turning point in its history and to welcome the commitment shown by the danish government to the european vision. the presidency will undoubtedly face many challenges in its six-month term, notably the push for negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, so that an agreement can be reached by the end of 2012. in the context of the mff negotiations, an important element is the adoption of the legislative package on cohesion policy for the period after 2013 which will contribute to ensuring a more competitive eu, through more targeted investment, and based on solidarity between member states. we are hopeful that under the danish presidency there will be as much progress as possible in these negotiations. finally, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the presidency has made protection policy one of the main parameters in achieving its priority for a secure eu. in this regard, i welcome the presidency's intention to hold talks aimed at strengthening the eu's disaster resilience and protection of vital infrastructure.
in writing. the promoted international agreement on stability, coordination and governance of the emu consists of measures that continue and intensify the same failed neoliberal policies and in no way address the root causes of the crisis. in today's vote on this, i voted against the joint resolution by the political groups (epp, s-d, alde, greens). the resolution, while expressing doubts about the necessity of the agreement, avoids highlighting its main negative features and criticising the policies being implemented at european level. the 'international agreement' effectively institutionalizes austerity policies, degrades the quality of life of the majority of european citizens, increases inequalities between member states and creates a multi-speed europe. the main concern is the need to maintain fiscal discipline at all costs (e.g. cuts in wages, pensions, social benefits), while the destructive speculative activity of financial markets and rating agencies is not curtailed at all. moreover, the provisions of the 'international agreement' undermine the democratic rights of europeans by minimizing the possibility for elected governments to pursue alternative economic and fiscal policies. the left group, in its alternative motion for a resolution, raised the above issues and also the need for extensive public consultation (e.g. referendums) in the event of changes in the treaties.
mr president, it is true that in durban there was a change. your strategy worked out very well, commissioner: the idea of a roadmap that you were proposing gathered alliances and the eu was put back at the centre of the negotiations. i am proud of what you did and i would like to congratulate you on it. but it is also true that there are things which make me, as an eu citizen, ashamed. we told our allies and other people who gathered around our proposal that we would deliver kyoto ii if they delivered the roadmap. they delivered their part, the roadmap, and we did not deliver kyoto ii. we did not deliver something legally binding, and while i know that this is not your fault – it is because we could not reach a common decision on the set-asides and other issues – the bare fact, in terms of continuing to gather allies, is that we have not delivered kyoto ii.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. ladies and gentlemen, we are one step closer to an important agreement on the improvement of the management of electrical and electronic waste. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a radical approach to the problem but it is certainly an important step. as the green group we have in particular called for the collection targets to be increased and calculated on the basis of the waste generated, for distributors to be obliged to collect electrical and electronic waste without any obligation to buy from the consumer, and for stricter controls to be introduced on the reuse and export of such waste to non-oecd countries. we were the only group that made any suggestions about nanomaterials. we have not succeeded in getting the producers to commit themselves to report the presence of nanomaterials in electrical and electronic waste, but we have succeeded in getting the commission to assess whether selective treatment of nanomaterials in such waste is necessary. i hope that parliament will vote in favour of this and of course tackle the low collection rates, the improvement of management and treatment and the control of illegal exports of electrical and electronic waste to third countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 january 2012 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use (05032/2/2011 - c7-0251/2011 - 2009/0076 ((cod)) (rapporteur: christa klaß) (a7-0336/2011).
member of the commission. − mr president, even if it is difficult to catch the eye, i will try to do my part. i would like to thank everybody for their support. many members made quite substantial comments with which i fully agree, and i will not repeat them. on the question of sustainable use: for the record, we are in favour but we still need to work on the review of active substances used in biocides. we will have a lot of work to do to implement this regulation – delegated acts, guidance documents and so on. therefore, let us focus firstly on the regulation and look at sustainable use on the basis of the report provided for in article 17a. secondly, a short comment on confidentiality – an issue addressed many times in relation to this proposal over the past two-and-a-half years. in my opinion, we have the right balance in the proposal between transparency and the legitimate protection of commercial interests. transparency was already a central principle of the commission’s initial proposal and, on the other hand, changes were introduced into the text limiting the amount of information which should be made public. finally, with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, we in the commission are very sensitive to the needs of smes, and the regulation does include a number of provisions that will help smaller companies: the possibility of waiving information data requirements thereby reducing costs; compulsory sharing of data; the provision on tests on vertebrate animals; a simplified and much less burdensome authorisation procedure for biocidal products based on safer ingredients, and so on. finally, i would again like to thank the rapporteur, christa klass, for her excellent work and also for her cooperation with us, and i would certainly like to thank all of you who have stayed till the end of the evening with us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 january 2012 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank commissioner cioloş, the rapporteur mr bové and the members of the agri committee for their report and also the authors of the oral questions on imbalances in the food chain. the prices of agricultural incomes and inputs have reached record levels in recent years, but they have not been accompanied by a corresponding increase in the price of agricultural products. although real input prices increased by almost 18% between 2005 and 2011, agricultural prices have been less rapid. agricultural incomes also fell by more than 10% in 2009 as a result of the economic crisis and only in 2011 returned to pre-crisis levels. the volatility of prices of agricultural commodities is also increasingly reflected in farm incomes and is exacerbating the decline in the bargaining power of farmers in the food supply chain. farmers are therefore facing a growing number of difficulties linked to the increase in the cost of inputs, but also to improving environmental and agronomic efficiency. what is the commission doing to help farmers overcome these difficulties? our work has focused on these problems, which are being tackled, on the one hand, in the context of the proposals for reform of the cap presented in october and, on the other, in the context of the high-level forum for a better functioning of the food chain which we have been launching for a year now together with mr cioloş, mr dalli and mr barnier. the recent proposal for the post-2013 common agricultural policy introduces innovations to strengthen cooperation between farmers and to clarify the scope of the competition rules. the proposals also aim to facilitate the creation of producer organizations and associations as well as inter-branch organizations. the compulsory recognition of producer organisations is a fundamental element in the european union. the commission's proposals provide for co-financing for their establishment in all member states, irrespective of the type of sector, through the second pillar dedicated to rural development. moreover, economies of scale will favour marketing through the presence of more distribution channels and the reduction of risks and this will also favour a better distribution of the same added value within the supply chain. in addition, our proposal on contractual relations in the milk sector aims to strengthen the position of milk producers. the subject of crop diversification, which is raised in the report, is also dealt with in the proposals for reform of the cap as part of the commitment to the environment. the european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability and awards for innovative local cooperation in rural areas can help to promote innovative measures throughout the food supply chain. the partnership could include projects on the rational use of resources, precision farming and so on. the cap reform will also strengthen the agricultural advisory system, allowing for better exchanges of good practice and information campaigns for farmers and consumers. another important issue is seed, for which an action plan is being developed as a follow-up to the evaluation of the legislation on the marketing of seeds and propagating material carried out in 2010-2011. a commission proposal is expected to be adopted in the third quarter of this year. the report also refers to the purchase and rental price of land, as mr bové mentioned in his speech. the authors of a 2010 study seek to clarify the relationship between land prices and direct payments. the commission is ready to carry out further studies to better define the impact of renting and leasing of land as input costs in agriculture. the last point i would like to make, also in response to the point raised by the rapporteur, mr bové, before moving on to the other aspects more closely linked to imbalances in the food chain, concerns energy and water. improving energy use in farms is clearly a win-win solution for all concerned. in fact, this solution not only allows farmers to reduce costs but also has a positive impact on the climate. the second pillar of the cap provides for mechanisms to promote renewable energy production inside and outside farms in rural regions, the processing of agricultural and forestry biomass and investments to rationalise the use of resources as well as mechanisms for energy saving. the measures under this second pillar also offer many opportunities to improve water management. as regards imbalances and abuses in the agri-food chain, honourable members, they are currently aggravated by price volatility, a problem raised by the three oral questions which are subjects to which the commission pays particular attention. unfair business-to-business trading practices can occur at all levels of the food chain, and they pose a threat to farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as their employees and often consumers. what measures must we take then? until now, unfair trading practices have been tackled at european level mainly in the context of business-to-consumer relations. as regards business-to-business relations, the union has adopted measures against manifestly unfair contractual terms and commercial practices due to late payments. the directive is due to come into force by march 2013, but i have recently written to all the ministers responsible to ask them to bring forward the entry into force of this legislation which is a concrete implementation of the small business act. we estimate that this directive will help to bring about eur 180 billion into the market. there is also a directive on misleading and comparative advertising, which aims to ensure fair practices and lays down rules for authorising comparative advertising. together with the communication on the single market act, the report on the monitoring of the retail market and following parliament's own-initiative report on more efficient and fairer retail trade adopted last july, the commission has planned to adopt a communication on unfair trading practices this year. this text should clearly define the scope and extent of the problem in the retail sector and emphasise the fragmented nature of national rules and their application. mr president, i apologize if my speech is longer than i had intended, but there are so many questions and so many questions, i shall be much shorter in my reply. the commission also consulted interested parties on their perception of unfair trading practices in the european business test panel and is currently analysing the responses received. once we have assessed the data collected, we will have to consider possible fields of action to remedy the various problems we have found. we also plan to adopt a communication this year on the directive on misleading and comparative advertising. at national level, some member states have already adopted important instruments to facilitate the management of business-to-business relations, contract law, policies for small and medium-sized enterprises, and legislation and codes of conduct against unfair practices. the commission has mandated the high level forum for a better functioning of the agri-food chain to work, inter alia, on contractual relations between undertakings and price transparency. representatives of agriculture, industry, trade and distribution recently agreed on a document on vertical relationships within the agri-food chain and principles of good conduct, which proposes a common definition of fairness in business-to-business relations. the document also proposes guiding principles for business-to-business relations, together with concrete examples of unfair and unfair practices. however, the measures to implement these principles have not yet been evaluated and therefore further, delicate work remains to be done. on the basis of progress in the coming months, the commission will take a decision: the commission will either continue to encourage such a consensual approach or, in the absence of satisfactory agreement between the parties, reserve the right to consider possible legislative action. at present, the commission does not favour one option over the other, all the alternatives are considered valid including the one suggested by the bové report. finally, as already announced in the communication 'better functioning of the food chain in europe', the commission has put forward legislative proposals to improve the transparency of the derivatives markets for raw materials, including agricultural raw materials. in particular, these proposals concern over-the-counter derivatives, markets in financial instruments and market abuse. these proposals, as you know, are currently being discussed in parliament and in the council. i thank you for your attention and i apologize again to the president if my speech was longer than expected.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the agricultural sector. first of all, i would like to stress that the proper functioning of the food market is inextricably linked to the proper functioning of the input market used by an agricultural holding and vice versa. regulatory arrangements are therefore required to ensure transparency in the formation of input prices and to ensure the application of, and compliance with, competition rules both in the input supply chain and in the agri-food chain. secondly, i would like to emphasize that, in line with the policy on the quality of agricultural products, the quality of traditional seeds should be linked to the cultural heritage of the member states. i therefore think it would be important to set up a european seed bank to store and preserve the genetic diversity of traditional plants and also to combat the loss of biodiversity in traditional varieties. thirdly, i would like to stress that the rational use of inputs and resources requires much more than the application of rules. it requires a change in farmers' mindsets, knowledge and skills so that they adopt the most environmentally efficient, sustainable and innovative farming systems each time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the new common agricultural policy will take all of this into account.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the development of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a welcome step towards the creation of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. i would like to thank from the bottom of my heart our good colleagues, maria da graça carvalho, giommaria uggias, mrs black, alyn smith, and all of you who have co-signed our declaration, as well as our colleagues inge and alessandro.
in writing. i voted for the motion. the amendment to the regulation establishing a community code on visas aims to clarify the rules governing transit through the international zones of airports in order to achieve legal certainty and transparency. this clarification, although technical and not changing the practice followed by the member states, has practical value for the facilitation of travellers by providing that third-country nationals holding a valid visa of a member state or a valid residence permit of a member state which does not (or does not yet) fully apply the provisions of the schengen acquis (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria, romania) are exempted from the requirement to have a transit visa at an airport. the proposal is part of the wider debate on the revision of the functioning of schengen. the european parliament will shortly be taking a position on the amendment and updating of the schengen code.
in writing. i voted against mr michel's report on the amendment of regulation 810/2009 because the correction of the provisions of the regulation, while not changing the practice already applied by the member states, reduces their bureaucratic burden and facilitates the movement of individual travellers of third country nationals who hold a valid visa or residence permit in an eu member state. it also simplifies the procedures followed by airlines.
in writing. the global forum on harmonisation of vehicle regulations is a permanent working group within the un institutional framework that promotes open debate on regulations relating to motor vehicles. all un member countries and all regional economic integration organizations created by un member countries may participate fully in the activities of this global forum and become parties to the agreements administered by this forum. europe, for its part, has an interest in ratifying, in addition to the other agreements to which it has acceded, regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning uniform provisions on the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. these regulations will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries, thereby reducing administrative costs and thus giving a little help to european industry to compete more widely and more effectively in an economically critical period for the time being. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr moreira's report because i believe that the proposals of the un working group wp 29 will make a positive contribution to road safety, the environment and trade, which are the responsibility of all countries. moreover, unece regulations will facilitate the implementation of own standards in many countries, thus reducing administrative costs and making european industry more competitive.
in writing. i voted against mr simpson's report because i believe that non-discrimination between eu air carriers and ensuring their right of equal access to fly to indonesia are important issues. in addition, the report's approval will help to bring the competition rules into line with eu law and ensure that aviation fuel is taxed when international flights are operated.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr simpson's report because most standards (such as environmental protection) and icao requirements are compatible with european legislation. issues such as flight safety, air traffic management and environmental protection are of particular importance and require priority regulation. in addition, the adoption of the memorandum of cooperation between the eu and icao is a decision in the eu's interest, as it strengthens its position within icao and ensures the competitiveness of its own civil aviation sector.
in writing. biocides represent the third largest group of substances that are hazardous to human health and the environment, let alone products that people come into contact with on a daily basis. they are often non-biodegradable, in some cases carcinogenic, and highly toxic substances, and may be harmful to humans, animals and the environment when used and subsequently disposed of as waste. they enter the food chain, the soil and the water. although the current legislation is the product of compromise, significant progress has been made since it was first introduced in 1998. the following shall be regulated by law: - the drastic limitation of carcinogens and substances classified as toxic to reproduction; - the possibility for a member state to impose prohibitions or restrictions where specific circumstances so require; - stricter authorization; - improved labelling and the prohibition of misinformation; - a reduction in animal testing; - the replacement of dangerous substances by safer alternatives; - the implementation of separate safety checks and the labelling of products containing nanomaterials. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
in writing. despite the plethora of european parliament proposals adopted by the council, important aspects concerning the placing on the market and use of biocides remain unsatisfied. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular by ensuring that the data subject is able to access the data in a secure manner. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this system has the potential to be an important factor in improving the availability of these products and protecting human health and the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the report confines itself to describing the problem of the fall in farm incomes, because it wants to hide the very causes that are causing the problem, which is the fall in farm incomes and the robbing of the income of the working-class family by means of fire increases in food prices. it is striking that it does not even mention that energy, fertilisers, pesticides, water, seeds, animal feed etc. are owned and controlled by international monopolies that set prices and take the labor of farmers and working consumers to increase their profits. subsidised community programmes promote the concentration of land on large farms, in the framework of the cap and its revision beyond 2013. water privatization makes it more expensive to use, as do rising fees and energy prices. the report supports the disastrous eu cap for poor and middle-class farmers and promotes the 'competitiveness' of agriculture in the eu, which means the concentration of land in large capitalist enterprises and the mass uprooting of poor farmers from their fields. the only way forward for the poor and middle peasants is the struggle against the cap and the whole of the eu's anti-people policy, its alliance with the working class and the self-employed of the city for radical changes in power and the economy.
in writing. josé bove's report highlights the acute and chronic problems in the supply chain of agricultural holdings faced by european farmers at a time when farmers' farm income is shrinking particularly as a result of the global economic crisis. the package of proposals referred to in the resolution contains general solutions to problems affecting the whole range of the supply chain on farms but also includes specific references to issues such as energy, soil improvers and plant protection products, animal feed, seeds for sowing. the content of the report's proposals to tackle supply chain problems is moving in a positive progressive direction to the benefit of producers and consumers of agri-foodstuffs with the aim of maintaining food security at european level. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report by mr josé bové.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr bove's report because i believe that his proposals are important and will contribute to improving the agricultural and environmental performance of farmers, which will lead to a more efficient use of productive resources. in this way, farmers will be freed from the centralized input industry and the cost of production will be reduced, resulting in an increase in their income.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is moving in the direction of supporting small and mediumsized farmers, even though it is not as strong as the original resolution we had tabled as the left european group. the resolution fails to get out of the logic of the 'necessity of regulating the competition rules' and does not include the amendments tabled by the left on the establishment of maximum commercial profit margins, in particular for large supermarkets, the immediate adoption of measures to stop dumping between member states and the maintenance of production quotas in the milk and sugar sectors. however, it is positive that it recognises the problem of unfair profit sharing in the food chain, in particular with regard to farmers' adequate incomes, and insists on the definition of abusive and unfair practices by dominant wholesalers, their supervision and the imposition of sanctions. finally, it focuses on small and medium-sized farmers, including family units, and the need to earn a decent income, produce food of adequate quality and quantity at affordable prices for consumers, create jobs, promote rural development and ensure the protection and sustainability of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because the proposed amendments are designed to improve bargaining power, reduce the income problems faced by farmers and tackle the problem of imbalances in the food supply chain. i believe that the achievement of the objectives set out in this resolution of the european parliament will make a significant contribution to solving this problem.
in writing. the european union needs the development of a space industry to promote scientific and technical progress and industrial competitiveness. the galileo and gmes initiatives are a good start in this direction, but in view of the progress in this area of competing countries such as china and japan, support for these initiatives is essential. the economic crisis in the eu should not be a hindrance to funding for relevant research programmes at a time when, as the report points out, markets for space services are growing rapidly and can be profitable. it is an opportunity for the eu to become a leading force in this field, and that is why i voted in favour of the patriciello report.
in writing. the lack of food to meet the nutritional needs of the population is a serious global problem affecting the eu, where 110 million people live below the poverty line and over 15% of its workers earn less than 60% of the average income in their country of residence. worldwide, according to fao figures, 925 million people are at risk of malnutrition. in our view, food waste is not the main cause of the world food problem, but that does not mean that it does not exist. the report conceals the cause of the problem, which is the capitalist mode of production, which is not concerned with meeting the needs of the people for food but only with the profit of the monopolies, the support of the big producers at the expense of the poor peasants. what food is produced and in what quantities depends on whether the multinationals will make a profit without taking into account the objective of tackling world hunger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. a final solution to the world food problem can only come by overthrowing the capitalist mode of production and replacing it with a socialist system, where food production is not for profit but for the needs of the people.
in writing. in the last 35 years, the world's food waste has increased by 50%. at the same time, the rates of deprivation in the eu, and particularly in countries affected by the financial crisis, are rising significantly. europe must manage its resources more efficiently. it is important to note that according to a recent survey, the average person in europe and north america wastes between 200 and 400 pounds [95 and 115 kg] of food a year, compared with the same figure in sub-saharan africa. it turns out that in developed countries, most waste is found in the final stages of distribution and consumption - mainly because of the overabundance of food production - while in developing countries it is concentrated in the initial stages, due to the lack of advanced agricultural techniques, efficient transport systems and infrastructure, etc. more efficient food management is a guarantee for more efficient food distribution and for feeding those who lack it. i therefore agree with the european parliament's call on the council, the commission and the member states, particularly in the midst of the economic crisis, to adopt strategies in this direction and with the proposal to declare 2013 the european year against food waste and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr caronna's report because i believe that food waste is a problem which has not only european but also global dimensions. the european action programme also proposes correct and realistic ways of tackling the problem. i think that the vote in favour of the report is important because it gives the european parliament the opportunity to serve as a means of informing and raising awareness among the citizens.
in writing. food waste is an issue that, particularly in a time of global economic crisis, requires special attention and i am pleased that the european parliament is taking such an initiative to raise awareness among europeans. according to the report, people in europe and north america waste between 200 and 400 pounds [95 and 115 kg] of food each year, the highest number in the world at a time when malnutrition is rampant in third world countries. i agree that the fight against food waste must be a priority in the european political action programme and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, the latest council decisions contribute to the completion of the single market and economic governance. i ask you whether what we have seen here today shows us that we are actually moving towards a united europe. is our aim to become a europe of the united states on the model of the united states? have you ever seen a michigan official attack a debt-ridden california like a number of prominent european politicians? i believe that we are all doing everything possible to deconstruct the european structure by criticism, by comments, by silly proposals and by the rigidity with which it imposes policies on countries and therefore on people, on their citizens. we are watching procedures to circumvent democracy and democratic procedures, we are watching procedures to circumvent the laws of the international labour office. as a greek, i accept all constructive criticism of what my country has done and is doing, but i believe that all of europe is hiding behind little greece, as if greece alone has all the problems of the crisis, as if we have built the euro on a very good basis, as if no mistakes have been made by anyone. as long as there is a problem in greece, there is a problem in europe. we call on all of you to stop dealing with greece because we will do our job and we call on our german colleagues because a gap is already being created that has a name and a face; germany's. already the media in southern europe are calling germany a "young hegemon". i'm very troubled and scared about everything that's going on. we're all gonna have to join forces to move forward.
mr president, the summit could be seen as positive for growth and job creation, but it remains at a theoretical level. four years after the crisis began, there is still no firm decision to leave the european union. the stability pact, as we all know, was not really necessary on a legal level but it was obviously necessary as a lesson in discipline or even a threat to those who deviate from the rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the recession will not solve the problem in any country, especially in my own. the budgetary discipline and the austerity programme are absolutely necessary, but without growth they are a dead-end policy which will have disastrous results not only for the countries in which it is applied but for europe as a whole.
mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, i know that you do not share some of the extreme and offensive remarks made by some of the loudmouths in this chamber about greece. i think it is pointless to address them or comment on their statements. but i would like to ask the other members to consider with us where the stereotypes, the flattening perceptions and the references against a country and an entire people who are being tested by the crisis are leading. i would like to point out, although my dear colleague mr brok has left, that i do not doubt the intentions of the vast majority of colleagues here, but i do believe that if we are sincere about wanting to help a country to complete its effort, then we should not offend it because, as another german, sigmund gabriel, said, when you put a people to choose between national dignity and aid it is as if you ignore basic lessons of history.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i do not believe that we have been marginalised at all. i think that we have been extraordinarily active in the most appropriate way we possibly can. this is the country of iraq. we have to respect that. we have to work with the un and martin kobler, who i feel has been the subject of some terrible things in terms of what has been said to him and who is doing his real best to find a way through this. it is going to keep these people safe. we have heard lots of different reports about missile attacks over the period. the question for me is how to get them to safety and how to get them to their future. it is clear that they have to move – that seems to be accepted by everybody – and to do so in a way that is as safe as possible. i have made many offers to the un and to iraq to be as engaged as we possibly can in that and i will continue to do so. but i really do think we now have to work through what is inevitably a bit of a compromise, frankly, to try to get these people to safety. that is what we will continue to do.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − i am very happy to look at where people have been and this is part of trying to review the designations for sanctions, for the reasons you rightly say – to keep the pressure on and to make sure that they are targeted. but one of the big challenges for us is to make sure that ordinary people are not unduly affected, and that means having the discussions which we are now engaged in in minsk with opposition groups, with civil society, to try and make sure that we are reaching out to ordinary people. somehow we have to develop this in a way that helps them. that is why, for me, it is so important that the discussions in the february foreign affairs council reflect what we know and what we learn from our discussions on the ground with civil society, opposition groups, and so on, so that we target it appropriately. i do not want to hurt the relationship between european countries and people in belarus. i want to find ways we can strengthen this while, at the same time, continuing to ratchet up our sanctions and concern with the government. that is really the challenge we have to face and that means we have to think about the economic issues alongside the political ones.
madam president, madam vice-president, it has been almost a year since commissioner malmström announced to our parliament that the negotiations with turkey on the eu-turkey agreement on the readmission of third-country nationals who have entered european territory illegally from turkey have been concluded. i would point out that today, as we speak and have the opportunity to ask you questions, as happens every day, more than 320 third country nationals are coming from turkey to european territory, crossing the border into northern greece, specifically the evros region. despite the conclusion of the agreement and despite its approval by the council about a year ago, turkey has not yet proceeded to approve the agreement and certainly not to implement it because it is asking in return, at least according to the statements of turkish officials that we read, for visa liberalization for its citizens travelling to europe. i would ask you, madam vice-president, whether, in addition to what commissioner malmström is doing, you intend to take the initiative on this matter and whether you intend to do more.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − the first thing to say is that cecilia malmström will be following this up herself. she has not raised this directly with me, but now that you have asked me i will make sure that i talk to her about it. it is a general problem. we have to find ways in which these agreements can be properly implemented. certainly she is tireless in her work to try to make sure not only that she gets agreements but that they are properly dealt with. so, if i may, i will ask her perhaps to send you a fuller answer from her perspective as the commissioner responsible.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − as you know, the kazakh authorities have said that these arrests are to do with their investigation into events in december but you are quite right, they are extremely worrying. as i have said already, i have the foreign minister of kazakhstan coming to brussels tomorrow. we will have a meeting. at that meeting i have a number of issues to discuss with him, but it will not surprise you that these issues will be top of the agenda. we need to find out exactly what is happening. if there is a case to answer, we need to see the transparency of that system; we need to see that things are done properly and so on. until we see that, i agree with you that it continues to be worrying. we shall continue to look at this and see what more we should do.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − we keep ourselves involved with these issues. you are right to raise the importance of the european union being engaged in what are important matters for the security and safety of our citizens but also, as you rightly point out, the reciprocal work being done with russia. within the external action service we have the capacity to look at these issues from a disarmament perspective. as you know, i attend meetings at nato of foreign ministers and defence ministers, and i will be at nato tomorrow. so we are engaged in this. our concern is that the work we do, as i was describing earlier – for example on a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction – is geared to our commitment to try and support all these initiatives that will reduce the numbers.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − thank you for all the support that you have been giving in the work that we are doing in india and in pakistan. as you know, i will be in pakistan in a few weeks’ time. the free trade agreement has a whole range of key sectors within it. i hesitate to speak too much on this because this is karel de gucht’s territory and i stray onto it at my peril – quite rightly too. what we try to do is to make sure that in each of the discussions there is a real dialogue with the industries who are going to be directly affected. a free trade agreement in principle is designed to support and enhance the opportunities of all countries and of all sectors of industry, but one has to be very mindful of the implications that there can be for individual sectors. so, if i may, i will find out more about where those particular discussions might be. for my part, my role was to try to ensure that we were moving forward in the bilateral relationships with india on security issues, on issues of human rights and on economic matters, in order that we have the strongest possible relationship with a country that we will be debating later in the context of what we now call the brics.
question time is over.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on iran and its nuclear programme.
mr president, mrs ashton, i urge you to make further diplomatic efforts. i'm not sure western diplomacy is following the proper approach to iran. they deserve respect and have a 4,000-year history to consider. i would like to make three points. the first is the delicate balance that is required when we impose sanctions, as to who is affected more by them, the ruling elite or the people. i am afraid that it is the people who will be hurt in this case and that we will have the opposite result of what we want. the second concerns energy sanctions. energy includes multi-year contracts, 40 and 50 years, large infrastructure, rising consumer prices all over the planet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. please continue your diplomatic efforts.
mr president, baroness ashton, today's debate in the european parliament is of great importance. the imposition of new sanctions against tehran was absolutely necessary, but it is equally necessary to try to exhaust all possibilities to bring iran back to the negotiating table. the decision by the european union to impose sanctions, although necessary, is not simple because it will have the effect of raising oil prices and because it will also create a problem for the energy reserves of many countries. the economic cost, especially for the countries of the south, will be high, taking into account the economic crisis. on the other hand, we must not forget that iran has the ability to channel its oil to markets other than the european ones. but there is something more important, because we have to make sure that the sanctions are strictly targeted and that they hit the iranian people as little as possible. i think, baroness ashton, that you should exhaust all means to persuade iran to cooperate constructively on the nuclear issue. but that should not be the only issue. the international community and europe seem to have forgotten the appalling human rights situation in that country. i think you should remind tehran of the matter and bring it to their attention again. in any case, armed conflict must be avoided at all costs. it is in no one's interest to have a conflict in the region of the already burdened arab world. i am afraid that the red line drawn by the united states on the closure of the strait of hormuz is dangerously escalating the situation. the european union is not only a member of the international community, but also a member of the international community. we all know that is not self-evident.
mr president, the embargo on iran's oil exports and the other sanctions that the council unanimously decided on are aggressive actions and an escalation of measures against the people of iran. the measures will boost fuel prices and corporate profits, while further exacerbating the capitalist crisis in the european union. the european union is once again becoming a world policeman, as dictated by its imperialist values and interests. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the gulf to develop their economic and social cohesion. the blackmail by the nuclear powers under the guise of iran's nuclear programme is a challenge. these same forces cover israel's aggressive policy and nuclear weapons, the countless nuclear weapons in europe and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in india and pakistan. i am sure that the workers will condemn these provocative actions. the joint exercises of certain countries with israel and the war against the people of iran must be stopped. the european union is a democratic country, and it is not just a democratic country, but a democratic country, and it is not just a democratic country, but a democratic country. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer with a blue card. mr president, mr tannock, i should like to make it clear at the outset that what i said was not about india and pakistan but about the honourable country you represent, great britain, which is a nuclear power and wants to impose a monopoly on nuclear weapons throughout the world. secondly, there is no un security council resolution condemning iran for its nuclear programme. i say that the european union is proclaiming itself the world policeman because it believes that it alone can be the guardian of international law and because it believes that it has the right to impose sanctions. that's what i said.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, tonight is a night of congratulations. i congratulate you on your election, i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent report he has produced and i would like to say that mrs ashton has also given me a very satisfactory response to the points she has made. it is certain that the brics countries are the driving force behind global economic growth. the european union must take seriously the new political and economic weight that the brics countries are acquiring by exploiting the political prestige they are developing. i also agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for a differentiated approach for each country. the structures of the four economies are different, as are their experiences of the global recession. but it should not be forgotten that, despite the recent impressive economic growth in most of these countries, they still have the highest concentration of poverty in the world. moreover, although they represent 42% of the world's population, they produce only 17.4% of global gdp. the comparisons are currently in favour of the european union. the question is what happens tomorrow.
mr president, i need not remind you how crucial the next few days, if not hours, are to the final settlement of the greek debt crisis. i would like to remind you that in these difficult times we must all do everything possible to deal with this crisis. the european central bank should do the same, in my view, by taking a step which would reduce greece's public debt by eur 10 billion, and accepting a similar haircut on its bonds. attention, i am not asking mr draghi to damage the european central bank. i am simply asking that no profit be made because when the european central bank has bought greek bonds at about 75% of their value on the secondary market and expects them to be paid 100% when they mature, what else can be called a profit?
i think that the concepts of democracy and human rights have suffered greatly because the more we celebrate them, the more we violate them. the representatives of the troika in greece are demanding that, before a new loan is made to the country, exhaustive measures be taken against greek society. they call for the dismissal of 150 000 civil servants and for a reduction in private sector wages and pensions, including the abolition of the minimum wage and collective agreements. these demands are contrary to the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties which establish the right to work and its protection, because it is a basic human right. there is a risk of a breakdown of the social fabric and destabilisation in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis will pass one day and it will be good to be able to still look each other in the eye when it passes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, both the report by mr angulo and the number and content of the reports from citizens and bodies received by the commission prove two things: firstly, that the problem of waste is acute and burning and secondly, that, despite the gradations that of course exist, there is not a satisfactory performance by the member states in waste management, with the consequence of creating problems for health and the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one, because it is not enough to say that the commission is not responsible for the fire. the second comment i would like to make to the commissioner on the report is that the commission is washing its hands or is indifferent when it has to intervene in various cases, such as when there are obvious errors in the preparation of the waste management plan and in the environmental impact studies. in such cases, commissioner, the commission must intervene and i think that the report, in general, is about a useful directive that will help us in waste management.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr iturgaiz angulo on his excellent report, which we discussed in committee and on which we congratulated him on its first reading. european citizens expect the public authorities to provide adequate and effective services, especially in the field of waste, which has a huge impact and harmful effects on public health and the environment. according to the un, the problems facing humanity by 2030 are: combating social exclusion, migration and environmental issues. i do not know if the hierarchy is correct, but this is a matter to which we must give great attention. the reports received by the committee on petitions on this subject are now commonplace. i therefore recommend, as the report rightly points out, that the 2008 waste directive be implemented, which lays down rules for the protection of the environment and human health with the aim of preventing or reducing the negative effects of waste generation and management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need transparency in waste management because waste management is a big economic event. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank mr iturgaiz angulo for his extremely careful, serious, objective and, in the end, instructive approach to such an important problem that europe has been facing in recent years. i believe that the suggestions in this report, at least in some of its parts, may allow the commission, as well as the member states, to adjust their policies in order to deal with a problem which, although not equally serious in all the member states of the european union, is nevertheless becoming more and more serious. i believe that it is a fundamental duty of the member states to inform their citizens, not just in schools, but also to restore trust in a problem that concerns us all. i think it is obvious that in measuring environmental violations we need more objective data. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one.
mr president, while the report describes the environmental crimes committed in waste management and the practices that are harmful to the environment, it nevertheless covers all the factors that cause them. instead of proposing measures against the unrecoverable pollution caused by big business, the report openly advertises the destructive action of the industry's monopolies. parliament welcomes the 1998 directive 2008, which upgrades energy combustion that damages the environment and endangers public health in order to multiply capital gains. the same directive legitimizes the pollution immunity of industrial capital by allowing the mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. the report refers to the role of organised crime in creating environmental risks in order to conceal the real class crime against the environment perpetrated by monopolies, the institutions of the european union and the governments of the member states. in greece, argolis, crete and many other areas, the health of workers is constantly endangered by the landfills that contain even toxic waste and operate next to their homes. the solution for us, the communist party of greece, is to reverse the anti-environmental policy of the european union to ensure the health of workers and the protection of the environment.
in writing. our role and duty as the european parliament is to respect the principle of sound financial management of the financial support granted by the european union through the community budget, that is, through the money of european taxpayers. respect for this principle should apply to aid to member states of the union as well as to third countries, in particular those facing the specter of a humanitarian crisis. in this spirit, i support the call to the european commission to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of echo's control, monitoring and surveillance system. as regards the efficiency and effectiveness of the humanitarian aid managed by echo, i share the recommendations made in the report so that the commission can continue its efforts to establish a better coordinated and more coherent system of needs assessment. finally, i agree that the european parliament should have access to the final financial reports of echo's partners on the implementation of humanitarian operations. only through transparency and accountability can we ensure that the money of the community budget is spent correctly and efficiently.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
in writing. the economic growth of the brics (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) and other emerging economies is expected to shift the balance in the field of foreign policy. the economic crisis has also shown that the eu must take account of the new special weight of these countries, both for economic reasons (facilitating trade, facilitating investment, etc.) and for humanitarian reasons (disseminating european values and experience and democracy). the present own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, is intended to define the areas of action of the eu and to formulate a first set of ideas on the institutional role that europe can play in the new global political and economic circumstances. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it also has comparative advantages such as culture, geography and geography, which it must exploit in its efforts to reach out to emerging economies. it is important to state at every opportunity that the crisis must not distract and isolate the country from what is happening at the global level.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's proposal as it serves the long-term interests of the eu's foreign policy. these demand that the brics countries join the current multipolar system of global governance so that they do not act in competition with the eu. these countries and the other emerging economies, because by 2050 they are expected to have larger economies than all the g-7 countries combined, could gain a great deal of influence over foreign policy at the global level. such a development would have a direct and adverse impact on the eu's ability to do so, which would now face great difficulties in its efforts to uphold and promote the universal values it stands for.
in writing. i voted in favour of parliament's proposal because i believe that the eu should pursue a strict policy towards proven authoritarian regimes and not allow their leaders to use their power to abuse the state wealth of their countries for their own benefit. in this way, not only are democracy and human rights safeguarded in the countries of authoritarian leaders, but eu interests are also served in the sense that authoritarian leaders, their relatives and associates are not allowed to do business within the eu and gain the ability to influence its policy.
in writing. the eu's total contribution to humanitarian aid is around €3 billion (64% from the member states and 36% from the commission), making it the world's largest donor. echo, the european commission's directorate-general responsible for the implementation of eu humanitarian aid, is tasked with the role of distributing a significant share of these resources through ngos, un agencies, international organisations and specialised services of the member states, and in 2010 managed €889 million. this initiative sets out in detail the financial data of the agency and the precise allocation of expenditure, and details the results of the directorate's periodic evaluations and the process of monitoring and implementing the humanitarian programmes for which european funds have been allocated. the report is therefore a good report on the accountability of the directorate-general and the transparency of the procedures, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal because i believe it is in europe's interest to have a coherent approach to the issue of collective actions. the spirit of european union law requires that victims of unfair practices, whether individuals or companies, are able to effectively exercise their rights under eu law and to be able to claim compensation for the damage suffered in the event of a breach of european law. it is absolutely essential that the eu's collective action system be based on respect for european culture. this will, among other things, increase consumer confidence and smooth the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. nutrition and health claims made on foods should not be misleading as to the characteristics, nature and identity of the food. the new nutrition claim proposed by the european commission, claiming to be for the benefit of consumers, is vague and raises reasonable doubts. this is a misleading claim which does not ensure a high level of consumer protection. it is an unacceptable proposal of expediency by the commission which confuses consumers and sets a dangerous precedent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food industry is able to compete with the consumer. it is not the first time that the european commission has been seen as a market-maker for food businesses. i voted against the european parliament's rejection of the motion for a resolution because i believe that the european commission's proposal opens up the way in a scandalous way for more and more unsafe food to end up on our plate. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers' health and safety is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. in today's vote on the recent council conclusions and on the international agreement on a fiscal stability union, i voted against the joint resolution of the political groups (epp, s-d, alde, greens). the measures contained in the agreement fail to address the root causes of the economic crisis. on the contrary, they institutionalize the austerity policies that are driving europe into recession and its citizens into economic and social misery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to exercise its powers in a way that is compatible with the treaty. the joint resolution not only does not reject the international agreement but supports recent changes to the architecture of emu (economic governance, european semester, euro pact). these changes are the most reactionary, undemocratic and extreme neoliberal response to the current crisis. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calls on the council to adopt a common position on the situation in the former yugoslavia and to adopt a common position on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. the own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, also raises the important problem of match-fixing (articles 55-57). it is noted that, following my presentation, there will be a public hearing at the end of the year in the committee on culture and education on this matter. europe, especially in the last two years, has been particularly affected by corruption in sport. the match-fixing scandal in germany, on which the commission consulted uefa, and similar phenomena in other european countries, such as italy and greece, are just a few examples. in the context of the increased community powers in the field of sport resulting from article 165 of the treaty, the commission has previously stated that it intends to support cooperation between the private and public sectors in order to find ways of combating 'fixed' games. it is important that the commission informs us of the results of these efforts and whether there has been any progress by the member states in this direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's report because i believe that sport is an important activity and that it benefits society, health and the economy. i therefore believe that the promotion of sport is of paramount importance and that the eu's action can contribute to achieving this objective and to developing its european dimension. i also believe that the commission's communication and the proposed actions are intended, among other things, to promote sport and to help it develop. finally, i believe that these proposals will make a positive contribution to bringing more attention to issues that threaten sport, such as doping and violence (e.g. the various incidents taking place in the stadiums).
in writing. the report is dangerous and disorienting for working class and popular women, as it calls them to become victims and perpetrators of the imperialist barbarity of war. while the report acknowledges that the largest number of casualties in wars are women, it proposes as a solution to increase the number of female soldiers in imperialist armies and interventions, as it claims that this will reduce aggression in armed conflicts. this is a daring challenge! the aggressiveness of imperialist armies is not a question of racial composition of the army, but an inherent characteristic of imperialism. their wars are born of the same capitalist system that is born and reproduced through them. it is the eu itself and the governments of the member states that are actively involved in the imperialist division of the world to ensure the profits of the plutocracy that murders women, men and children in imperialist wars across the planet from africa, asia and the middle east to the balkans. the kke is fighting so that the anti-imperialist and militant women's movement can create the conditions for the overthrow of the capitalist system that gives birth to imperialist barbarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report, which gives a comprehensive picture of the problems and challenges facing populations, particularly in developing countries, in accessing electricity. the report rightly notes that access to modern energy services is an absolute prerequisite for poverty reduction, sustainable human development and the achievement of the un millennium development goals. it is significant that over the next two decades, significant global investments in the energy sector are forecast to reach $26 trillion, when just 3% of this amount would be sufficient to achieve universal access to energy for the human population by the year 2030. however, many developing countries have failed to improve access to electricity for the poor, mainly because this investment is not a profitable business if there are subsidies. meanwhile, as the financial aid provided by the eu, the world's third largest donor, has been too small to provide access to energy for the poor, the report proposes some targeted measures to make europe's aid more effective for citizens in developing countries who lack access to energy.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank the committee on economic and financial affairs, its chairman, mrs bowles, and i would ask you, corien wortmann-kool, to convey to mrs sari essayah, very warmly, my thanks for the work she has done in close consultation with your fictitious rapporteurs, sophie in't veld, sven giegold and ivari padar. payment services are simply vital to our economies. without a fully functioning payments market, we cannot have a fully functioning internal market for trade and growth. the regulation under discussion is intended to speed up the implementation of sepa, as corien wortmann-kool has said, the single area for payments in euro. the sepa project aims to develop and is developing euro payment services which are no longer fragmented from one country to another but are common to the whole of the union, and it replaces domestic payment services. this is the very example, ladies and gentlemen, of financial regulation for the benefit of those in the real economy: sepa will make crossborder payments as easy as domestic payments and will bring greater reliability and security to european citizens and businesses. the latter will benefit from more competition in this area and - i think so - from lower costs of payments. this should also stimulate innovation and give the internal market an additional concrete dimension. i welcome the fact that this compromise is a step forward from the commission's original proposal. this is further proof of the real usefulness of the work we are doing - as you said, mrs wortmann-kool - in good faith, especially at the time of the trilogues. i am pleased to note that many of the commission's texts have been improved and clarified by the work of your assembly. the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, prepared by mrs essayah, has therefore contributed greatly to improving our proposal. the new text is more favourable to consumers. i will give two examples: firstly, the planned disappearance of the bic code from 2014, i.e. less information to be provided by the consumer to make a transfer, whether it be a domestic or international transfer. secondly, the elimination of surcharges for all crossborder payments, and this as soon as the regulation comes into force. of course, the commission regretted the abandonment of the principle of two separate migration dates for transfers and withdrawals. in our view, this would have helped to speed up the migration process and rewarded the most advanced member states, providers and companies. however, a single deadline should also facilitate communication on the migration to sepa, including the use of the new iban account numbers. the commission is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, generally happy with the final compromise reached. we are willing to look at the governance of sepa by the end of this year - there is progress to be made - and also at the issue of consumers' right to unconditional reimbursement for withdrawals, under the revised payment services directive. these two points were each the subject of a statement of principle, accompanied by a third on the exercise of the powers delegated by the commission. as agreed, these three statements are included in the annex to the resolution before you and they reflect the compromise reached in december, word for word. in conclusion, mr president, with this regulation we are providing the payment market with the legal framework it needs. we are contributing to the emergence of a genuinely integrated market for payments in euro in the union. finally, we are offering european citizens and businesses a market where payments will be made throughout the union as quickly, efficiently and reliably as at home, and this, i think, at a lower cost, thanks to increased competition. this is the third point we have discussed since the beginning of this afternoon and it represents real progress for the single market, both for citizens and for businesses.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this debate may seem to be out of place and out of time, and my assessment may be based on the influence i have had on the decisions taken yesterday by the greek parliament under dramatic circumstances: austerity and recession, which is of course not a greek phenomenon. so we are talking about the transition, about payments in euros, at a time when the crisis is dying, the recession is deepening, austerity is embracing much larger parts of europe, and it is ironic to say that we have to solve this problem at a time when european citizens and the peoples of europe may not have euros in their pockets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, because in this climate we must also protect the rights of consumers, my remarks are, firstly, because in this system the change that will be made will be costly, it should not be the citizens who pay the costs in accordance with the well-known practice of banks to pass on such costs to the citizens. the report does not cover this point. secondly, there should be a systematic effort to inform and educate the public and, thirdly, and particularly importantly, because the change will also involve electronic money, there should be measures - which the report does not provide - for cases of fraud against consumers. i think it is a good thing that there is a date and that the interchange fee has been abolished and that should also apply to credit cards. the president of the court of first instance may answer a question by means of a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". i shall answer the last question first because i think that what i said was not understood correctly. the banks will benefit - i do not deny that. so it's probably a misunderstanding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. " and if incomes are cut, the question becomes: what is the economic situation we are in today and what is the economic situation of the european union? i think that you cannot deny that, and it is not only a problem for greece that this recession and austerity are limiting incomes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
answer "blue card". i think the honourable member has used the wrong phraseology. for a number of reasons, i did not participate in the proceedings to express a first opinion. so you didn't arrest me today for contradicting a second opinion. secondly, mr president, my remarks are very specific and i think that the house allows us to comment on the report without accepting any restrictions. so i don't see why you should check up on me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will try to answer each and every one of you precisely and simply. first of all, to thank mrs gebhardt for pointing out the progress made on the commission's original text, thanks to parliament, particularly in consumer protection. i would also like to say to mrs gebhardt and to each of you that, in the financial services sector, one of my main priorities for the year starting in 2012 will be consumer protection. you will see this in the revision of the directive which mr gauzès is familiar with, on financial products, on ucits and on insurance intermediation. another second priority will be shadow banking, but that is another matter. consumer protection will be a priority. since i am talking about consumer protection and information, i want to say to mr cutaş, mr padar, mr chountis or mr terho - mr padar spoke about change - that it is indeed a change, including cultural change, which we are accelerating and facilitating. so a number of people need to be informed and i think i can say that the banks are involved in this information work, including for consumer safety. i also tell mr padar, as i did mrs mazej kukovič, who has just spoken, that i will be following and we will be following very closely the implementation of this regulation, with the concern we have to work with the banks and ensure that it is being implemented properly. i also want to say that i am very much committed to the best governance of the sepa system, in particular to ensuring that consumers have a place in it, and they know my concern about this. mrs. in 't veld said, "what's taking you so long?" you know, mrs in 't veld, that the commission wanted to move faster and we are working as a trio, the commission, parliament and the council. so we had to find a compromise which i believe is a balanced and yet dynamic compromise. mr giegold recalled that we had set a deadline of 2014, as mr karas had said earlier, for the euro zone. i also want to tell mr giegold and mrs ţicău that this project we are speeding up for sepa is linked to another project on which the commission has just presented an action plan on electronic commerce. this gives me the opportunity to tell mrs ţicău that we are going to work on highly technical issues that affect consumers via the internet for electronic invoicing, electronic signature, payment security. i am working with my colleagues, mr dalli and mrs kroes, very specifically on all these technical obstacles to facilitate the development of e-commerce. mr chountis made a reference which i understand to the serious situation and difficulties facing his fellow greeks. i shall not, at this stage, go into today's debate on the effort we all have to make to put things right. i simply think, mr chountis, that your country, which i know well and respect, is one of those in the union which has the greatest interest in good economic integration, in this type of ease of payments. your country has foundations and that is why we must have confidence in its ability to overcome its difficulties by its own efforts and by the very important solidarity effort which is being led by all the european countries. but when we look at the economic fundamentals of greece, particularly in terms of tourism development, tourist reception and trade, it is clear that greece is one of the countries with the greatest interest in a good integration into the single market. mr martin mentioned one point, namely the reimbursement of ordinary direct debits. we have already answered this question in this text. is there anything more we can do, mr. martin? this is a matter which i have undertaken to examine, as you requested, in the context of the revision of the payments directive and its consequences. mr gauzès, as usual, asked some real questions, including an annoying one on multilateral exchange commissions. i think i can say that we have tabled a text which presents a balanced solution, which provides for the eventual abolition of these commissions which are not favourable to consumers, with certain hidden costs and with an upward effect on the retail prices of services, often paid by levy - i am thinking of water and electricity. at the same time, mr gauzès, the text acknowledges that the ban on these multilateral flat-rate commissions applied in six member states may be a problem for a number of banks which have benefited from them up to now. that is why we have planned a transitional period - you mentioned it - until 2017. i would like to say, to be perfectly clear, that this does not prejudge what will be done or what should or could be done on the question of credit cards, as you yourself have requested. mr mölzer spoke of the consumer regulation and the safety we owe to consumers. i would like to remind you that this regulation will strengthen the rights of consumers to set a ceiling on the amount of each automatic levy, to determine its frequency and to block any levy for the benefit of persons or companies defined in advance. in addition, the payment service provider should verify each withdrawal where the corresponding mandate does not provide for a right to reimbursement. what i have just said is a bit complicated, but it confirms, mr mölzer, the desire to ensure consumer safety. i understood mr stoyanov's question about the domestic case of internal sampling of a country. mr stoyanov, as i have no answer to your question, i will give you a written answer after i have investigated the point you have raised. mr paška, mrs băsescu and mr silvestris have rightly pointed out the savings this project will bring to consumers and businesses. mrs flašíková beňová spoke of the framework for competitiveness, and i think she is also right. finally, i would like to thank mr karas for highlighting the added value that is being brought to bear. this is precisely the third point on which we have been deliberating for some time now and on which we are discussing progress, added value for the internal market, as mr karas said. finally, i would like to say to mr zemke that the draft concerns all payments in euro within the european union and not just the euro zone countries. this project concerns all payments in euro within the european union, not just the countries that are currently part of the euro zone. i would like to conclude, madam president, by referring to the work of mrs essayah, whom i would like to thank again for the quality of her report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 february 2012, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the collective management of rights of klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000020/2012 - b7-0034/2012).
madam president, there is a contradiction here because, while we are discussing social cohesion, at the same time a policy is being promoted, which is also the responsibility of the commission, and which is leading to an increase in unemployment and the closure of many small and mediumsized enterprises in greece. you know that youth unemployment in greece has now reached 48% and that the overall unemployment rate in the population is 20.9%. the new memorandum actually forces young people under 25 to work for a 32% reduction in wages and therefore a young person aged 25 entering the labour market with a wage of 440 euros for eight hours of work in a whole month. in these circumstances, young people tend to leave the country. is there really a policy that is consistent? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement. here's the big one: are there any unused resources? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask that we look at the policies implemented to deal with the fiscal crisis in greece in a way that is consistent with the other policies, namely social cohesion and the economy, particularly the green economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are discussing tonight is of the utmost importance because it concerns young people: the most important asset of the european union, which is currently suffering from unemployment and insecurity, not only in countries with severe budgetary problems, such as my own country, greece, but also in other countries of the north and south. young people are being forced to emigrate not only within the european internal market but also outside it. the orientation towards supporting enterprises is the best method because, on the one hand, it is the enterprises that can absorb the talents of europe's young people with innovative ideas and higher education, but, on the other hand, young people can develop their own activities at the same time. the structural funds must help to achieve this, because they are the most important instrument we have in a europe which lacks the mechanisms for solidarity and immediate response to crises and problem solving. i would like to ask a few questions at this point, mr commissioner: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the obstacles are often not due to a lack of resources but may be of an administrative or legislative nature. investment is also needed in complementary areas such as research, technology development and innovation. i would also like to ask whether this new direction of resources will be accompanied by flexibility. there are areas which have severe structural problems and which require urgently well-designed and targeted solutions. other areas are affected by disaster emergencies. in my country greece, ilia, which is a 'special area', could, for example, benefit from such a programme with flexibility and immediacy?
in writing. cohesion policy is one of the eu's main policies to respond to the economic crisis. it was the spearhead of the european economic recovery plan in 2008, and the recent increase in the co-financing rate for projects implemented under cohesion policy is another example of the contribution of the structural funds to recovery efforts. during the informal summit on 30 january 2012, the leaders of the 27 km agreed that resources should be used to tackle youth unemployment and to boost financing for smes through the €82 billion remaining to be made available to km from the european regional development fund and the european social fund. however, it should be made clear that these 82 billion euros have simply not yet been spent on specific projects but are not unallocated resources ! finally, it is necessary to highlight the paradoxical fact that although member states are supporting the recovery efforts from the crisis through the structural funds, some of them are proposing cuts both in their future cohesion policy and in the annual community budgets, thus creating several problems in the eu's most important development policy.
madam president, in just two weeks we have seen the bankruptcy of two airlines in the union. the panair bankruptcy led to the suspension of 22 000 passengers worldwide, while the malev bankruptcy led to the suspension of 7 200 passengers. in addition, the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been in breach of the airport services agreement with ryanair. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. in reply to a question put by the commission and my colleagues from the committee on transport and tourism just last december, the commission once again seems to be hesitant about whether or not to legislate a scheme to ensure adequate protection for all passengers or to implement a scheme on a voluntary basis. the rescue tickets offered to passengers by third parties are helping, but we need a permanent legislative solution to this problem as soon as possible.
madam president, because my country had a dramatic night yesterday, i wanted to point out that in order to deal with the budgetary problems, there are two ways: the first is the policy now being pursued, which is trying to reduce labour costs, to create conditions which reduce a european country to the standards of a third world country or china. on the other hand, i think that the solution in line with european values is to emphasize cohesion, to emphasize the creation of jobs in green areas, to emphasize change, education, reform with the participation of society so that it can really, through the upgrading of public services and the revitalization of its economy, also address its budgetary problems. we are now seeing that many of the provisions in the new memorandum are not in line with european values. how can we expect young people to stay in the country when they are working for 8 hours a day for a month for a salary of only 440 euros, when the cost of living - because there is no adequate social infrastructure - is over 800 euros. young people are already leaving the country and every day more than 600 people leave for other european countries. the troika and the commission representative are focusing unilaterally on reducing labour costs, whereas the commission should be investing in innovation. we must win over society to participate in the reforms. there is no achievement of fiscal objectives or reforms in general with society against reforms. but that means that society must be motivated, that it must know that there will be cohesion, that there will be jobs, that there will soon be a better quality of life for all people, otherwise it will be against reforms and i am afraid that movements will be created that will turn against the european union, in greece populist movements will gain ground, while the solution must be european and to this end the commission and parliament and the other member states must contribute a great deal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from the images broadcast by the international media, you witnessed scenes of violence and destruction yesterday in the heart of athens, with the occasion of the adoption of yet another harsh package of measures, not austerity measures but deprivation i would say and, worst of all, without the country having any other choice because of the dead-ends in which it has fallen due to bad 'constitutions', bad policies and omissions, with european and national responsibility. thousands of people marched to express their despair. the destruction was not done by angry citizens but by anarchist thugs who exploited the pain and turmoil of the world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the loans from the partners and the international organizations, the piecemeal measures - such as those we discussed earlier on youth unemployment - are not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations under the treaty of amsterdam, and i am pleased to say that the commission is taking this step.
mr president, fishing does not happen in a void. it happens within our seas and is based on fish stock availability. thus, having more fish is about fishermen’s income and about securing jobs. that is why the show that we put on for the council, each time we have to make and put forward our decisions on tac quotas and multiannual plans, is really misplaced. in the midst of this european debt crisis we always take the decision to fish, to consume more now and create debt for the future. in the reform of the common fisheries policy parliament will be asking for fisheries reserves, so as to add this discussion an element seeking to reassure people that there will be fish available and that there will be more fish in our seas, more easily fished by our fishermen, both for our fishermen and our coastal communities, and for our common future. i have just seen a description of what parliament will be asking for, namely that fishery reserves are areas where we do not fish, where we leave the stocks to be revitalised and come back to their original numbers. and around them we can catch more fish much faster and more easily.
member of the commission. - i beg your pardon, because i understood ambulance and not street vending. if you would write to me specifically on the specific point of the mobile trade you are raising, i will give you a legally targeted and precise answer on this question, examining the imperfections or contradictions that may exist. i will answer your specific question in writing, mrs angelilli.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the posting of workers directive is indeed very high on our agenda and we have work in progress despite the fact that originally the idea was to deliver this at the end of last year. i have to admit there is a little delay with this package, but this is also about quality and we believe that it is very important to get it right after such a long period of conflict and consultation. we invested a lot in this consultation. last june, at a conference we organised in brussels, i outlined the structure of the legal instruments the commission would like to use to address the question of posting. this consists of two elements: an enforcement directive in order to ensure that the implementation of the original directive improves in terms of its quality, and a monti ii regulation on social rights, following the pattern of the previous monti i regulation in the context of cross-border trade, only this time in the context of cross-border services. the objective of the latter is to ensure that fundamental social rights are not subordinated to economic freedoms and vice-versa, and that there are further clarifications about the powers of various courts if industrial action takes place. but i think it is very important to stress that by reopening the original directive we would not go very far; in fact we would undermine the key objective of the original legal instrument which is to facilitate cross-border services and at the same time fight social dumping. the enforcement directive will facilitate further cross-border service provision for companies through better administrative cooperation, more transparent information and limits to national control measures. it will prevent abuses by clarifying the elements of the notion of posting, limit the opportunities to impose national control measures by codifying the case law of the court, and contribute to fairer competition and a more level playing field, for example, for smes. the key is better administrative cooperation. we have had many consultations with stakeholders and the various participants in this debate with a view to taking every possible aspect into account. there is still fine tuning to do, and the proposed date for adoption is march.
member of the commission. − i can only confirm that the question of joint and several liability is one of the key considerations of the ongoing work and i would not like to comment on leaked drafts which have been circulating recently. i think it is better to wait until the final text emerges, and then a discussion in both parliament and the council can follow.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the greek parliament did more than its duty two days ago. he voted for the new agreement after negotiating with the troika in greece, knowing that it imposes harsh austerity measures and new savage cuts on a people who are already suffering deeply. the question is: what are brussels, berlin and paris going to do about the matter we are discussing today? and i'm not talking about current and future loans, these are money that will be repaid, and with interest. i am referring to the famous marshall plan, which was included in the text of the agreement at the summit on 21 july and then disappeared within a few hours. greece, and other countries facing problems, now more than ever need an economic stimulus package with resources directed towards public works, job creation, retraining and training of the unemployed. how will the competitiveness, growth and employment we are talking about today finally be put into practice? how will our fellow citizens who are facing such acute problems, particularly in the countries facing this current crisis, unique in the modern history of europe, feel about it?
member of the commission. - my colleagues, mr papanikolaou and mr papanikolaou, can answer this question which expresses the feeling of the greek people in the great difficulty in which they find themselves. what i have often said, including when i was in athens a few months ago, is that the greek people are not alone in facing their difficulties. the whole of the european union, the international monetary fund, through exceptional measures, have provided support for greece's recovery in this overall plan, and i am not just talking about public finances. we know, mr president, that the effort required of the greeks is extremely rigorous and demanding. i think, however, that the fundamentals of the greek economy indicate that if this plan is followed and respected by all the partners and by the greeks themselves, the greek people are capable of getting by. since today's subject is the services directive, the services economy, mr president, i would like to stress that, apart from the directive itself, which covers 40% of the european economy, services - we know that - are even more important in terms of gdp in the european economy. this is particularly the case in your country, which is one of the most open and well-placed, particularly in an area which commissioner tajani is following very closely: the economy of the tourist industry. i think - and i said it in another debate yesterday - that greece, in its great difficulties, can bounce back, particularly as the country which must integrate the most and the fastest. this affects a number of professions, it affects many services, particularly those linked to the tourist economy, because greece is one of the countries which can best benefit from an integrated single market and the facilitation of trade, electronic commerce, mobility and exports. that is why i will - in my own capacity as the person responsible for this directive on services, together with my colleagues - be very attentive to accompanying the greek authorities in the practical implementation of all the elements, all the potential of this directive on services. i can say this because we are talking today about this service economy.
i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for what you have said, but you have not answered a specific question i asked you: the council, at its meeting on 21 july - i repeat - spoke of real help, of a real demonstration of social solidarity. he referred to a new marshall plan which could help to create growth, new jobs and real and effective solidarity in the countries with the greatest problems. the text went in for a few hours, but then it came out again. is there any other thought of the commission? we're seeing mr. barroso's announcements about the problems facing the citizens. we understand the anxiety of the commission. but in the final proposal from the commission, do we have anything of relevance as a recent development?
in writing. any decision on copyright must take into account that problems of different kinds cannot be dealt with by a general rule, as defined by the term 'intellectual property'. the falsification of products and works covered by intellectual property rights is related, firstly, to the division of labour at world level, and, secondly, to creativity as shaped by the diffusion of new technologies with radically different conditions of production and consumption. the inability to identify and manage issues related to finite material and infinite immaterial resources negates the synergy that the term 'intellectual property' attempts to achieve. the creation and strengthening of a monitoring body for these rights in the run-up to the acta trade agreement, which also faces heterogeneous problems, going beyond basic democratic rights and functions, turns the observatory into a police body for monitoring citizens' privacy and communications and undermines creativity and innovation in the union. the possible cooperation of this body with private companies prescribes the policing of the public and private lives of citizens by private individuals, a perspective incompatible with democratic principles and values. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities and the european investment bank is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. support for innovation and the efficient use of resources for research and technology require the safeguarding of copyright and the protection of intellectual property rights. in this context, the european commission's european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy is being set up, which aims, among other things, to develop technical tools to prevent counterfeiting, illegal copying and piracy. the commission's proposal for a regulation entrusting the european anti-counterfeiting and piracy observatory to the eu office for harmonisation is therefore a step in the right direction, as this merger will allow the observatory to access the necessary funding and infrastructure to carry out its tasks and activities, while benefiting from the expertise of the office for harmonisation and thus saving around eur 40 000 in the eu budget.
in writing. the interconnection of business registers is one of the outstanding steps towards completing the economic area within the eu and enhancing legal certainty for businesses and citizens. increasing cross-border economic activity makes it necessary, for reasons of legal certainty, transparency and practicality (as business registers differ between member states), to link business registers more effectively. the immediate benefit is savings in both cost and time, while new technologies and electronic record keeping create even more favourable conditions for the removal of any barriers and differences. in any event, this directive, which i voted for, only regulates the exchange of information contained in registers and does not establish a commercial register with its own data. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. following the attempt to conclude a fisheries agreement, i voted again against the participation of the kingdom of morocco in the union's programmes. the main reason for the vote is the status of western sahara. the union cannot continue to operate on the logic of 'business as usual' and remain indifferent to the continuing violation of international law and the sahrawi people's human rights by the kingdom of morocco. moreover, under the pretext of competitiveness and the need for low prices for agricultural products and fish imported into the european market, moroccan farmers and fishermen are very poorly paid. finally, i voted against the failure to ensure that crops are grown in accordance with the necessary criteria of food safety and respect for the environment and the conservation of natural resources.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's legislative powers are not undermined. the proposal aims to create an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area or spa), where no different regime will apply to cross-border and national payments. this is expected to bring significant economic benefits as it reduces the cost of payments for consumers and businesses and makes cross-border payments as easy as domestic ones, thereby fostering competition and innovation. a first estimate puts the benefits to the european economy at €100-300 billion over the next six years, many of which are direct gains for european consumers and households.
mr president, poverty is a political, economic and social problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the relief provided by the food distribution program to the needy is important but, of course, it is not a solution to the problem. this does not mean that it should be abolished. the poor also do not care whether the money comes from the cap or from the social fund. the current economic crisis in europe will worsen living conditions for a new, very large part of the population and this must be addressed in a sustainable and coherent way. the fight against poverty and exclusion is clearly a union matter. at the same time, we should perhaps remember that the rest of us, who have the ability to eat adequately, need to become more responsible citizens. the 179 kilograms of food thrown away per citizen per year, i think, is an insult to the poor and is something we should also be concerned about.
mr president, there have been many occasions - and there will be more in the future - where we have been called upon to take a stand on sensitive and important issues such as this agreement. we have repeatedly stressed that trade agreements are essentially political and we proved this a short while ago with the uzbekistan agreement. it is quite clear that if we say no to this agreement we freeze our relations with morocco and in effect we have no access to and no say in a number of important issues. it is important that the european union continues to work with this country to bring about reforms in areas of importance to us. the european union has so far maintained a good and frank dialogue with morocco on policy issues within the bodies responsible for the follow-up to the association agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement is implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. i would ask the european commission to confirm this once again.
mr president, commissioners, the reaction to the ratification of the agreement is of two kinds: the first is a fearful reaction to a trade liberalization which benefits both the european union and, of course, morocco, always taking into account the conditions of protection for sensitive european products. the other is linked to the political problem of the population of western sahara. however, non-ratification of the agreement would not improve the situation of the population of western sahara in any way. we are, on the contrary, referring to the need to address these issues immediately. at the same time - and i regard this as a key element - we must not forget that by promoting economic growth and its diffusion in the southern mediterranean we are making a decisive contribution to the establishment of democracy and the achievement of political stability, at a very critical juncture in the arab spring. i think that is the main objective of the european union and of course of the european parliament.
madam president, the commission's proposals for the eurobonds for stability were the result of initiatives and strong requests from the european parliament, and i therefore warmly welcome this approach. i would like to make it clear, however, that our aim is not to solve the problems of some countries which are unable to cope with them on their own. the aim is to manage the debt in an efficient, fair and solidarity-based way, without imposing a burden on the healthy countries, but also without forcing some other countries to finance themselves on terms that are too onerous for them. it is the stability of the euro area itself that is at stake, and i am sure that the union will move in that direction. i would like to put a few questions to the commission: firstly, what is the reaction of the member states and the financial associations to the three commission proposals? secondly, how does the commission expect the stability bonds to contribute to the strengthening of the euro on international markets and, thirdly and lastly, what timetable does the commission have in mind, given that countries with fiscal pressures have immediate and urgent needs and, at the same time, need to finance their economy for growth and cohesion, not only at national level but also at the level of the european union.
mr president, last sunday the greek parliament voted on the measures for the new loan agreement, a package of tough measures which are undoubtedly once again shaking social cohesion in a country which has been subjected to a series of extreme and barbaric measures over the last two years. the measures were adopted because there is no other choice, because the majority of the greek people have agreed to make many sacrifices to remain in the eurozone and to avoid the country being led into disorderly bankruptcy and exit from the euro, and because the majority of mps have put national duty above their conscience and above the realization that we are being led to the demolition of decades of labour conquests. what was europe's response to all this? nothing is certain, we'll see, there are second thoughts. it must be understood that greece has made many steps and that a clear positive message is needed today, that hope is needed if the greeks are to be able to bear the burden of the commitments they have undertaken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the spring council will focus on employment and growth. but what are the specific proposals and the framework for the countries affected by the crisis? so far we have only wishful thinking, while in practice increasingly harsh measures are being imposed, with cuts in wages and pensions, which are driving unemployment up and leading to an even greater recession. we expect the council today, albeit belatedly, to present specific, targeted measures for growth and unemployment. unfortunately, the margins, not only for my country greece, but for the eurozone as a whole, are narrowing. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise from the podium of the only directly elected body of the european union and i would like to put the following questions to the representative of the council, but especially to the representative of the commission: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. is it a sign of democracy to postpone the eurogroup meeting because the written statements of the parties supporting the papademos government have not yet arrived, at a time when these parties no longer represent the greek people and when their leaders no longer represent their parties, because they are being dissolved? is it democracy, mr commissioner, to invite greek members of parliament to study the 750 pages of the memorandum you are imposing in one afternoon, at a time when athens is being flooded by thousands of workers drowning in tear gas, in order to agree to a memorandum that is disastrous for greece? is there democracy in the european union? is community law being respected when you, the commissioners, through the troika, demand and impose the abolition of collective bargaining, the abolition of labour law and when commissioner andor, in answer to my question on this, says that greece is a 'special situation'? is it a democracy when greece is governed by the troika and the various gauleiter of the international monetary fund and the commission, with greek ministers behaving as their subordinates? it is a democracy when .......(the president interrupts the speaker)
the situation in greece needs no introduction. the "memorandum 2" voted on sunday 12 february by the parties of capital, bears the seal of the troika of the eu, ecb, imf and constitutes an attack of unprecedented barbarity against the working people. the new loan agreement, with its accompanying measures, turns workers into modern slaves and forces them to work for a piece of bread. the attack is sweeping. there are massive cuts in wages, pensions, health, welfare, education, unemployment is massive, poverty and the impoverishment of the people is unprecedented. they're tearing everything down! the bankruptcy of the people is uncontrollable. greece is not a special, exceptional case. with the europe 2020 strategy at its forefront, the eu and bourgeois governments are attacking the working class and the popular strata with the same ferocity in all eu member states. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people, and it is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. the european union has already begun a new cycle of terrorism and pressure against the greek people, with the aim of taking even worse measures. the illusions about a united eu, about convergence, solidarity and peace are over. this is what hundreds of thousands of protesters are chanting in the streets of greece, portugal, belgium, spain, france and elsewhere. the word is now in the hands of the organised working class-popular movement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
answer "blue card". i would like to begin by expressing the thanks of the working class, the popular strata and the youth of greece to the germans, the french, the danes and all the workers in the eu member states for the unprecedented solidarity they are expressing in a number of ways. the greek workers have given and received solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the spring council, mr president, is an institution which deals with competitiveness, growth and employment and is of enormous importance. but if we do a little self-criticism, we will see that our success to date has not been significant. the unemployed have reached twenty-three million in europe and fifty years of prosperity and development in europe do not seem to be matched by the corresponding benefits today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, we as greeks thank our partners for helping us in a very difficult time. i would like to point out, however, that the rhetoric of europe's leaders must not be offensive to the people. i am particularly concerned about the german side, which has the history and the capacity to understand what i am talking about. we cannot be different, we must act as partners. we are partners, and that means that in a time of trouble, we must help those who suffer. greece will implement the programme, but such a programme also needs growth rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to make a suggestion. we are all talking about greece all the time here and we are doing very well, but we must not forget that behind greece are portugal, spain and france. we all know the downgrades that are made by the rating agencies. we therefore know that a greek default would be a default on european ideals, a default on the european social model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore propose, since so many voices are being heard that have solidarity and social cohesion in europe in mind, that first a 'troika' be set up by the whole of parliament and then that we, all members and all political groups who believe in europe, all of us who want the european union to live, make an effort to draw up a resolution to show that the european parliament, which represents the european citizens, exists, acts and wants the european union.
mr president, i would like to make three points. the first concerns the troika of the european union, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the proposals of this troika lead to austerity, recession and unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a proud troika of the european parliament making proposals that lead to growth, hope and employment. we must take it seriously, commissioner. the second point concerns employment. i have here before me a letter from the president of the general confederation of greek workers to the president of the european parliament and to all the members of the european parliament. do you know what the president of the gsee says in this letter? it says, very simply, that the measures proposed by the troika are destroying collective and sectoral labour agreements in greece. what about this? what will you say and what resistance will you put forward, commissioner? i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to a programme for young people. there's the youth on the move program. if you don't do something right away, this will be renamed "youth in stillness".
in writing. this recommendation concerns the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the participation by those states in the work of the committees relating to the entry into force, application and development of the schengen acquis. the enlargement of the schengen area to include non-eu countries has brought significant economic benefits to european countries, as well as immediate practical benefits and facilitated the daily lives and travel of european citizens. the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected and that the schengen agreement is respected, and that the schengen agreement is respected.
in writing. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the council is to define the broad guidelines of economic policies and to lay down guidelines for employment. these guidelines should serve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and be consistent with the broad economic policy guidelines. the eu 2020 strategy, moving in a neoliberal direction, fails to respond to the needs of european citizens, and particularly european workers, even more so since the outbreak of the crisis. the main thrust of the programme is to increase competitiveness at european level by reducing the structural imbalance in industrial relations. moreover, the general orientation of the eu's economic policies today, and in response to the crisis, is to impose harsh austerity programmes and cuts in labour and social rights. at the same time, unemployment is at an all-time high. the employment guidelines within which they are embedded are therefore not an important tool for controlling poverty and unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of europe. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. i voted for the recommendation. the agreement reached in the council between the member states to bring the food distribution programme back to eur 500 million per year (from eur 113 million initially proposed by certain member states) is certainly welcome. in a very difficult economic period, with poverty widening in many member states, and particularly in those affected by the economic crisis, such as greece, governments and national actors should pay attention to the full use of relevant resources. in previous years, there has been a tendency for inefficient absorption due to insufficient information for the parties involved, bureaucracy or other relevant factors. it is a shame for the social fabric of europe that money which exists for such a sensitive issue and for which no national participation is required to be used, is being wasted through negligence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. the european parliament hereby formally adopts the view that the issue of bonds with joint and several liability constitutes a process of greater economic integration. the need to strengthen economic governance and economic development in the euro area is also recalled. in this context, the commission is invited to submit proposals in the near future to resolutely address the current public debt crisis, such as the european debt amortisation pact, the finalisation and ratification of an esm and/or eurobond treaty, and the joint management of the issuance of public debt securities.
in writing. i voted against the report because it is governed by a central contradiction in its analysis of the economic and social situation in europe. on the one hand, it rightly recognises that the austerity policies being imposed are leading to a widening of poverty, a deterioration of the welfare state and an increase in unemployment, particularly among young people and women. on the other hand, it proposes the adoption of policies, such as the europe 2020 strategy, which contain neoliberal positions similar to those being implemented today. the administrative proposals for reducing unemployment and protecting work which appear in the text only serve as a framework for rescuing workers and the unemployed from complete impoverishment. if the eu is to really improve the living standards of the economically weak, it needs to ensure the right of citizens to permanent and stable employment, to boldly increase wages, to expand the welfare state, to tax large companies, to have full control over stock exchange capital, to create an educational system geared to the needs of society rather than the needs of the market. unfortunately, the report does not go in that direction. the deep economic crisis cannot be dealt with by a policy of 'carrot and stick'.
in writing. the annual development overview on the eu's priorities for the next 12 months focuses on the areas of tax policy, financial sector stabilisation, growth and competitiveness, employment and the social impact of the crisis and public administration. it is noted, however, that decisions taken in this critical economic environment - with unemployment rising rapidly, with youth reaching 50% in some member states, with recession affecting much of the euro area and with europe's own europe 2020 targets appearing unrealizable - should have greater democratic legitimacy. in this context, i voted in favour of the report which proposes to increase the involvement of the european parliament and points out the insignificant role it plays in the european semester procedure, where, under the treaty, it has only the right to give an opinion.
in writing. once again, the commission's 2012 annual growth survey (ags) does not prioritise the interests of the citizens of the union. on the contrary, they are promoting the same failed neoliberal policies that led to the crisis, while, in the name of fiscal consolidation, they are imposing harsh austerity measures. recovery and sustainable development are incompatible with austerity, recession, unemployment and poverty, which are essentially institutionalized. the ep report is fully in line with these guidelines. it is limited to the request that the ep be involved in the preparation of the esc in the event of a revision of the treaty. unfortunately, however, the problem with the annual development report is not only a problem of democratic legitimacy that can be solved simply by involving the ep in the process, but it is also highly political and has to do with the neoliberal policies imposed by the dominant economic and development model it promotes. the only way out of the crisis is to reverse these policies and implement alternatives aimed at economic efficiency, social and environmental justice and sustainable development. i have voted against the report for all these reasons.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, italy entered the global financial crisis in a vulnerable position due to its high public debt and low economic growth. but from its first day in office, the government of prime minister monti has shown its determination to address these two challenges and has already adopted several important measures. on the one hand, in december, it passed a new austerity package which is helping to shore up italy’s public finances. it should allow italy to achieve a very sizeable primary surplus by 2013 and put the government debt on a downward path. on the other hand, between last summer and recent weeks, a broad range of structural measures has been adopted on taxation, pensions, competition, the business environment and the efficiency of the public administration. the most recent measures on opening up closed sectors and administrative simplification can contribute to improving competitiveness and a business environment, removing long-standing bottlenecks to growth and ultimately increasing the adjustment capacity of the economy. in conclusion, the commission welcomes the decisive action being taken by the italian government and stands ready to assist and support that action as the government sees fit. a concrete example is the commission’s support in fighting youth unemployment by setting up a dedicated action team for italy and reprogramming structural funds until 2013. mr prime minister, as you have seen, you have strong support in the european parliament, and i am sure that you know you have a lot of friends – i would even say fans – in the commission. i would therefore like to tell you on behalf of the commission that we wish italy, your government and you personally all the best in your efforts.
president of the council, italy. mr president, since i have taken more time than i had intended in my opening speech - and i apologize for it - i shall be very brief in these concluding words, which i wish to devote above all to renewing my thanks to you, mr president, to the honourable members who have shown their support and esteem for my country, for the government i have the honour to preside over and for me personally. these words, these sentiments and these actions are a great comfort to us and stimulate us to try to govern italy ever better, and to try to make italy contribute ever more to a vigorous european policy, particularly in favour of growth. i also thank commissioner šefčovič for his words to me. i think i will answer only two points, but i will reserve the right to examine in the transcribed text, because of the complexity of the philosophical and systemic points which the speech presents, the words which mr speroni wanted to address to me and for which i thank him very much. the two answers i wish to give are one very short and one very short. the very short one concerns the comment by mr gollnisch. (the speaker now speaks to the honourable member in french.) i would like to say that i cannot boast of a democratic electoral legitimacy, and i assure you that, unlike you, monsieur, and others, i did not come to obtain this legitimacy. i was asked to do this job, which i find exciting. there's nothing i would have done spontaneously. and so i am sure that if you had been asked to intervene at a difficult moment as head of your country's government, you would have certainly refused, saying that you would have done so only if you had a democratic legitimacy. (applause from the centre) mr president, i also thank you for the warm welcome you have given me. i would like to turn to mr harms, taking his words as a starting point, in more general terms. many important comments have been made on the greek question: we've all been thinking a lot about greece. but i would like to invite you, as one of the oldest among you, to look at things in a historical perspective. the harsh treatment of greece today may well be considered excessive, and it probably is. but i would suggest that we do not forget that greek politics for many years - i say this with modesty and as a mere outside observer - has been a perfect catalogue of the worst practices of politics in our countries. when we say that this subject is briefly dealt with in the article to which i referred earlier that democracy is working in europe at the national level for the time being, but unfortunately not yet at the european level, the denial is twofold. the first: we are here in the place of democracy at european level. the second: we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers, which are the only ones who can do this, get in the way of the european parliament's work. from this point of view, therefore, - even if we can consider the rigors to which the euro leads us with its budgetary discipline excessive and even if i criticize them too - it must be acknowledged that the culture of stability invented in germany, which we all absorbed with the euro and the maastricht treaty, has had the merit of setting the political activity of individual countries in a more serious way, because it was too easy in the past for politicians to comply with any need, accumulating public spending and public debt behind the backs of future generations and thus ruining their own countries. i would therefore like to look at europe as a moment of balance, which perhaps now has a pendulum that has been pushed too far in the direction of rigor, but as an italian i think it is a good thing that pendulum is there, because a country like italy, many years ago to join the euro, benefited from having to undergo better discipline.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the european commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria. i would like to ask, on behalf of the vice-president of the european commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, mr villy søvndal to speak.
president of the council. - mr president, first of all, thank you for a good, informed and very engaged debate. it's easy to understand, because the situation is terrible. i think that everyone in this room shares the feeling that it is intolerable to see people being shot at by mortars in residential areas, people going out to demonstrate peacefully being shot at, people being tortured, people disappearing, people having to flee. i think that everyone shares the same sense of disgust at a regime that reacts in this way to its own people. it is also one of the reasons why we have spent virtually every foreign minister meeting i can remember at the european council discussing syria as one of the major issues. it is important to emphasize that we have a strategy in the eu. we have a strategy that we are pursuing and that we will continue to pursue on how europe can best help the syrian people in the current situation. our first order of business is: stop the violence! don't shoot your own people. we shall pursue this view in all international forums wherever we have the opportunity. we are doing so at the un general assembly, where a resolution will be voted on tomorrow which will probably condemn in the strongest terms what is happening in syria. we do this in relation to the un security council. for, as several speakers have also said, it is essential to involve the un security council and to criticise the positions of russia and china on this issue whenever we have the opportunity. we cannot sit as a responsible member of the security council, as one of the permanent representatives, and just watch things happen. we have a responsibility to protect, as some speakers have said. we intend to stick to that for both china and russia. i think it is impressive, not only when the european union says this, but also when the arab league does it and when turkey does it. i saw today that china is going on a tour of the arab countries. they're probably just saying that because they think they have something to explain. we will also use this opportunity to make our message known at the meeting in tunisia on 24 march, to stop the violence and find a political solution. because there is only one political solution to the crisis we face. finally, we will promote our position elsewhere, in all other forums where we have the opportunity. that is what we do as foreign ministers - that is what mrs ashton, the high representative, is doing. what are the options? i can understand your impatience. there are four options that we want to pursue. the first is the idea of a peacekeeping force from the arab countries, which they would like to implement in cooperation with the un. it is still a little unclear what the concrete shape of this will be, but this is one of the subjects we will continue to discuss when we meet in tunisia. then there is a proposal for international corridors. i would just like to say that we certainly do not exclude this, but it requires a very strong international community to be behind it. because with international corridors, we are talking about making our way forward. then we are talking about combat action. there have also been some strong statements about avoiding a devastating civil war. i do not necessarily think it is wise to bring more weapons into an area where there is a risk of civil war, a risk of the situation getting out of hand. in fact, today's debate has confirmed several of the things that are the eu's position in this conflict. firstly, we will continue to tighten the sanctions. we will do the same at the next meeting on the 27th. we are moving on to the number of areas and the number of people covered by the sanctions. we are continuing to provide humanitarian aid where we can and we are not ruling anything out in this context either. we are working more and more closely with the opposition and are also calling on the opposition to work closely together so that we do not have a quarrelling opposition. it is absolutely crucial if a new syria is to emerge. finally, i would like to comment on another debate, namely the alternative to assad. we have heard some say that this is ethnic extremism. i don't believe that shit. i believe that the syrians have the same desire as all other people to determine their own future in a constellation where we give them the opportunity and push for it. i do not believe that any country is doomed to have only the choice between dictatorship and religious extremism. i think that is also the lesson of some of the elections we have seen in north africa, for example in tunisia, where we are going to vote on 24 june. thank you for the debate. i will pass on the conclusions and the speeches that have been made to the high representative, mrs ashton, and they will of course help to shape the views that will be the views of the european union on the conflict and our contribution to finding a solution to it.
i have received six motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 february 2012, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the 19th session of the united nations human rights council.
mr president, i too would like to thank and congratulate our rapporteur on his report and his excellent work. for another year, the debate on the guidelines for the administrative budget of the institutions of the european union has been taking place as the economic and social crisis is putting the budgets of all countries to the test. throughout the european union, budgets are drawn up on the basis of budgetary rationalisation and austerity measures in many sectors of the economy. in this respect i support the rapporteur's position and the need to avoid unnecessary and non-immediately necessary expenditure by clearly defining priorities and, where possible and useful, by redistributing expenditure, so as to achieve rationalization of the administrative budget of these institutions. however, like the rapporteur, i too would like to stress that the rationalization of administrative expenditure must take account of the need to respect the financial commitments of the european union, such as the accession of croatia, and the need to maintain an efficient administration that can respond to the increased responsibilities of the european parliament as derived from the treaty of lisbon.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the possible extraterritorial effects of the legislation of third countries, particularly the united states of america, and particularly in the field of data protection, are of course of great importance to the european parliament. it is imperative for us in the european parliament to know clearly, and from you to the commissioner herself, whether there is a breach of the relevant european union legislation on data protection in particular. it directly affects the rights of european citizens, it also has repercussions on the economic world within the territory of the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to repeat something i said in connection with your recent presentation of your proposals for the revision of the 1995 directive on the protection of personal data, which, i repeat, is in our view in the right direction. we are in a period where europe is being accused of lack of leadership. the european union has unfortunately lost its prestige and weight internationally and particularly in the field of foreign policy, but that is of course another story. however, in terms of data protection, europe is at the forefront and is showing the way to other countries outside the european union. i hope and am sure, after many discussions with you, that the commission and you personally will continue with the same dedication to work in this direction.
mr president, it is of course our paramount duty to respect the right to family reunification and of course this directive we are discussing today is a decisive one and is also reinforced by the green paper in the recent commission communication. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what my fellow greeks who will be watching our debate will say to me? they will say to me - as they keep saying to me - at the same time as you are talking about this, i want you to tell me what europe is doing, what are you all doing about those circuits that force and traffickers, that force third country nationals to go through forced marriages, what are you doing to develop the infrastructure in those countries that have the biggest problems? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the centre of athens, there are ghettoised areas. what are you doing for all of us greek citizens who after 9pm can't leave our house? i would therefore like to conclude by saying that this is a very important issue, but we cannot isolate it from the overall context of immigration policies.
in writing. the report in question, which i voted for, concerns the compensation of depositors in the event of the bankruptcy of a credit institution. it is recalled that when the global financial crisis broke out, the eu increased this guaranteed limit from eur 20 000 to eur 50 000 and from 1 january 2011 finally to eur 100 000 per depositor. however, this is not sufficient to ensure full protection of deposits. it is clear that mass exits from banking institutions, a major factor in the euro crisis, can destabilise the banking system in a very short time. this directive seeks to establish a deposit guarantee scheme by bringing together the european measures followed by the member states. the commission has also proposed that the greek authorities should be given the possibility of exercising their powers of control over the banks in the event of a failure to comply with the conditions laid down in the treaty.
in writing. the european parliament's joint resolution on the situation in syria comes as a result of the escalating and ongoing violent repression of peaceful demonstrations in the country which has been going on for almost a year. unicef's estimate of 400 children who have fallen victim to the crackdown, the un's estimate that the number of dead in syria has exceeded 5,400 in the last eleven months of the uprising, and the fact that thousands more civilians have been injured and at least 69,000 are in detention, all create the image of a humanitarian crisis in the country. it is clear that the international community has already been too late to take effective action against the syrian government, as different approaches and conflicting pursuits are limiting it. the european parliament has made its position clear with this resolution, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. the kke votes against and condemns the unacceptable joint resolution of the european parliament on the situation in syria, which is a gross interference in the development of an independent country. the european parliament is once again becoming a harbinger of imperialist violence by preparing the ground for intervention in syria. it is a challenge to present as defenders of people's freedoms the political staff of the monopolies which support israel and deny the palestinian people the right to a sovereign and independent state, which crushes the rights of workers in the eu member states. the european union has been unable to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement, and the council has not been able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement. they are cultivating a war climate to justify open imperialist intervention in the region by the eu, nato and the usa. they are using the same method as in libya, where the european parliament, by demanding the imposition of a no-fly zone, opened the way for imperialist intervention and war against the libyan people. the syrian people and the peoples of the region are the only ones who have the right to solve the internal political problems of their country and decide their own destinies, by their struggle against capitalist exploitation, overturning imperialist machinations and interventions.
in writing. i voted for the motion. 95% of all published works, books and publications are never converted into 'accessible formats' such as braille, large type or audio. this fact alone constitutes a distinction. this distinction is contrary to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular articles 21 and 30, but also to the european charter of fundamental rights. and it's even more sad, our fellow citizens not being able to access valuable sources of knowledge for intellectual property reasons. this resolution seeks to support the convention on the rights of the author in books and printed works for the blind and visually impaired in order to facilitate access to these works as quickly as possible.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, one year has passed since the terrible natural disaster in japan, which was one of the worst accidents in the history of civil nuclear power. this anniversary is an opportunity for us to convey our condolences to those who are suffering and to ask ourselves what lessons we have learned and what we have done about nuclear safety. long before the fukushima tragedy, the commission initiated a process of improving nuclear safety with the aim of developing a consistent european dimension based on high standards. the first milestone was the adoption of the nuclear safety directive in 2009, followed by the waste management directive in 2011. i would like to thank parliament for the constructive role it has played in the adoption of these two key elements. after the fukushima accident, the commission initiated a comprehensive risk and safety assessment of all nuclear power plants operating in the eu. this was endorsed by the european council and by parliament. as you know, the stress tests have been under way since june 2011. they are based on a common eu methodology. i listened very carefully to what ms harms said and i will convey this message to my colleague, commissioner oettinger. all 14 member states that operate nuclear power plants – and lithuania, which is decommissioning its nuclear power producing unit – are participating in the voluntary process and have provided national reports which are now subject to peer reviews. as you know, our neighbouring countries are also committed to the eu stress test methodology. switzerland and ukraine are participating. the results of the peer reviews, which are an essential part of the process, will be known by the end of april. the final report will be presented by my colleague, commissioner oettinger, to the european council at the end of june 2012. he has asked me to tell you that he will also be available for discussions on it with parliament. the outcome of the stress tests is expected to provide an objective overview of the nuclear safety situation in the eu, and will form a basis for legislative or non-legislative proposals that the commission will bring forward to improve the nuclear safety framework. the main areas for improvement could be technical safety requirements, nuclear safety governance and emergency preparedness and response. security threats, including malevolent acts, are an important part of stress tests, and a discussion group on nuclear security has been set up in the council of the european union to address these. the first results of that group will be published in its final report, also in june. this report will be annexed to the commission report, which will be presented to the council and to parliament. the implementation of the resulting recommendations is a national responsibility. however, monitoring and reporting mechanisms should be established to ensure the implementation of the necessary safety improvements. the fact that the results will be made public will help to ensure that all the necessary steps are taken to guarantee the utmost safety and security. the commission will closely and actively follow all developments. last, but not least, it is necessary to strengthen the safety culture and emergency preparedness worldwide. the stress tests are already acting as an international benchmark, and from the very beginning the commission involved the neighbouring countries, in order not to be alone in going ahead with these, but to extend the safety culture beyond our frontiers. international cooperation, particularly in the framework of the international atomic energy agency, is more important than ever. the commission intends to contribute to the updating of the convention on nuclear safety with the aim of increasing its effectiveness, governance and enforceability.
the debate is closed.
the debate is closed. the next item is the joint debate on the report by mrs sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union 2011 (2011/2244 (ini)) (a7-0041/2012) the report by mrs sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women's participation in political decision-making quality and equality (2011/2295 (ini)) (a7-0029/2012) i would like to take this opportunity to say that it is a great honour for me to preside over the work and discussions of this house. but today the honour and the joy are twofold because i am proud, as we all are, of our gender and because, although we still have a long way to go, we can have the satisfaction that the european parliament is taking the lead, is trying and is in the right direction.
madam president, the economic crisis is hitting the least protected groups particularly hard and unfortunately, today in the 21st century, women are still a vulnerable group. in my country, greece, women have been victims of the crisis from the start and were among the first to be dismissed. the employment rates of women are much lower than those of men. today, two years after the start of the economic crisis, women are overrepresented in the most precarious and low-paid jobs and underrepresented in responsible jobs. there is a huge difference in the pay of women and men; a difference that grows wider every day. the image of the woman who is a mother, who is a worker, who is an immigrant is the image of greece itself that is affected. the problem of equality is not solved. today in the european parliament we must renew our commitment to fight, with greater determination than ever, for gender equality to become a reality, because we all, men and women, stand to gain from it.
the next item is the report by kurt lechner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and authentic instruments in matters of succession and establishing a european inventory of succession registers (com (2009) 0154 - c7-0236/2009 - 2009/0157 (cod)) (a7-0045/2012)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i do believe that this is very good news for european citizens. there are 450 000 successions per year which have an international background. we are now giving citizens the freedom to choose and we are reducing red tape. that is what we should do in order to allow citizens to exercise their right to free movement. the negotiations on this file, which represent the first cross-border cooperation in this area, have involved a lot of technical work and a lot of time in order for delegations to understand the underlying issues and the differences between the legal systems. an important part of this work went into trying to accommodate the concerns of the uk and ireland. the future regulation, which is now on the table, already constitutes a fair compromise which the uk and ireland should be able to accept because there are substantial benefits in it for their citizens. at any rate, even if we decide on this without the participation of the uk and ireland, they will of course always have the possibility of opting in later. on the information question, i agree absolutely with members of this house that it will be important, once this piece of legislation comes into force, to inform citizens about their rights and their possibilities. the european council of notaries has designed a website, with the financial support of the commission, in 22 languages, in order to inform citizens about what the new rules will bring to them. i think it is very important that notaries in all the participating member states will be informed and will inform their clients about the new possibilities available to them.
mr lechner, dear kurt, please accept my congratulations and my best wishes for your health and for the investment of your knowledge and experience in the interests of a people's europe. i am very happy to have worked with you during our previous term on the committee on legal affairs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 march 2012, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on legal training, by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, and juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000059/2012 - b7-0106/2012)
mr president, allow me to give a true account of my personal experience. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament, and that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the judge was then forced to suspend and even postpone the hearing for several months until he received the interpretation of the european court of justice on a matter which was nevertheless clear. unfortunately, the national court did not have the necessary experience and familiarity to judge the issue at issue directly during the trial. i think we often see examples of this in many member states. the result is more inconvenience for citizens, more bureaucracy and delays in the handling of cases by national courts and of course an excessive workload for the european court of justice which can certainly be avoided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. if we implement pilot projects for the training of judges, will we also provide for a genuine evaluation mechanism? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
the capitalist development promised by the european union and the bourgeois governments serves the profits of capital and not the needs of the people. unemployment is running at 25 million and spreading rapidly in all the member states of the european union. unemployment is a nightmare for women and young people. one in two is unemployed in greece and spain. unemployment in greece has soared to 23% and the unemployed have exceeded one million but in reality the situation is even worse. at the same time, the government in greece and the troika are proceeding with the abolition of sectoral labour contracts and are drastically reducing wages and pensions. the young people's wages are being cut by 32%, and this reduction is now accompanied by a 22% cut in the meagre unemployment benefit. life for the working class, the popular strata and the youth is hell. thousands of young people are taking the path of forced migration, wandering across europe and other continents in search of survival. but there too they face slave-trading offices and flexible forms of work and find starvation wages that do not cover basic needs. the young people, whether they live in their own country or are uprooted from it, must not accept the unemployment, poverty and misery to which capitalist barbarity condemns them. in such circumstances, common organization and struggle of the workers for their protection and relief is required.
mr president, a short while ago we discussed the report on gender equality. i would like to stress, however, that while the debate has been about improving the position of women, in greece things are going backwards. the slogan 'equal pay for equal work' seems far too far removed from reality and unemployment is now reaching unprecedented levels for both sexes, although the impact of the crisis is heavier for women. the social infrastructure, which is already weak in our country, is shrinking all the time, but this is affecting women most of all because the two sexes have different starting points. in the past, unemployment among women was higher than that of men, but today it has doubled. women were working under a labour dismissal scheme long before it was officially introduced. the wage cuts hit women hardest, who were already paid lower wages, with the gap reaching 20%. in order to tackle the problems of the greek crisis, there must be an effort to at least compensate for the loss of income with targeted measures to improve social infrastructure and social cohesion, if we are to still talk about gender equality. this is something that must be taken into account in any measures and policies.
mr president, the restructuring of the greek debt, with the largest ever exchange of government bonds, is now a fact. it is a great breath in a painful marathon that does not end here, with the greek people being the runner who makes dramatic sacrifices and makes great efforts. the greek economy is traversing the desert of recession and greek society the desert of unemployment, while commerce sees nothing but empty shops with locks on them. greece urgently needs to find an oasis of growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but now it is time to apply the growth model. this requires new and practical ideas. the creation of a greek-european development bank is a serious and realistic idea recently proposed by the leader of my party to the german chancellor. i believe that the european parliament should support and promote this idea.
mr president, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, you who are here in front of me: two years ago, the leadership of the european union, together with the greek prime minister, put the people of my country through a huge experiment. greece has become a vehicle for the international monetary fund in the eurozone. the international monetary fund is now an institutional part of the european union. the greek experiment consists of reducing wages, reducing pensions, reducing benefits, reducing spending on schools and hospitals, cutting benefits, abolishing collective agreements. what are the results? the recession reached 7% last year, the unemployed numbered one million officially and one and a half unofficially, shops are closing, workers are not being paid, a people is offended and unhappy. greece has gone bankrupt and its people, its youth, its families are paying the price. the banks reap the benefits. and now, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, what did you decide in the council? what are we talking about today? you have decided to bankrupt the idea of europe. you have decided to bankrupt the idea of solidarity. you have decided to create a europe of iron budgetary discipline, a german europe. you have decided to create a europe in which we are all spitting at each other, a europe that is afraid of its own people, a europe that is afraid of referendums and the voice of the people. but, mr barroso, mr van rompuy, you must know that the people have not gone bankrupt and that they will soon give their answer and throw away such memoranda, such conventions, such treaties.
mr president, i am afraid that in theory we are talking about growth when in reality we are only concerned with budgetary discipline. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. we must not forget that taxes kill taxes. it has also been found that tax evasion at european level is growing and becoming uncontrollable. the insurance problem is the next bombshell in the foundation of the system. unemployment is turning into an avalanche. unemployment in greece for the month of december reached 21%. one in two young people aged 15 to 24 is unemployed. the small and mediumsized enterprises which form the backbone of society are closing one after another. these phenomena are present in almost all the countries of the european union. the social fabric of europe is under threat. mr van rompuy, i congratulate you on your renewal of your mandate, but i would like to remind you and mr baroso that you must not rest on your congratulations, because congratulations are sometimes more painful than condolences. do your job and move on.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's encouraging, but it's not enough. we need binding decisions and action because words and wishes are not enough. if we want to be concrete and convincing to the european citizens, then we can and must link specific development measures, such as the financial transaction tax or the eurobond, to the new fiscal pact. but let me also address the various 'pythons' in this chamber and outside, who, invoking democracy and the welfare of the greek people, are talking about greece leaving the euro. it is clear that everyone can have his own opinion - democracy in this parliament is an asset. but for god's sake, do not invoke the interests of the greek people. the vast majority of 70% of the greek people are in favour of the country remaining in the euro and will not allow anyone to exploit the difficulties it is experiencing to promote the interests of the disintegration of the eurozone, as some systematically do.
the council's decisions show that progress has been made and that some of the way has been traveled. of course, there is often bad language. we all wish for a reduction in tensions, but there are no magic and pleasant solutions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. structural changes will help countries like mine in particular. it is the only way to deal with today's crisis and to have hope for growth. the budgetary pact, the european semester and the decisions to promote employment can and must be the guiding principles for the way forward. the european union has a historical conscience and a sense of the interests of the european citizens, so that it does not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the economic crisis for too long. the ideological content of the common struggle for all of us and the efforts for development can give hope to the young people of europe. the point is that the sacrifices have a real impact. i would like to stress that the greek people are willing to make such great sacrifices because they are not prepared to risk their presence in the european union and the eurozone, despite what the various 'cassandras' claim.
in writing. this report endorses the european parliament's agreement under the lisbon treaty to improve judicial cooperation between the eu member states, on the one hand, and norway and iceland, on the other, by implementing almost all the provisions contained in the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states and its 2001 protocol. the delay in the application of that agreement is due to internal national procedures which were not completed at the time of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. therefore, and in accordance with the new legal framework of the treaty of lisbon, and in particular article 218 tfeu, the consent of the european parliament is now required. the implementation of the agreement, which i voted in favour of, extends to norway and iceland the rules on mutual legal assistance. these are rules that are already in place and being applied in the eu member states and will help to combat crossborder crime and promote cooperation with these two countries already in the schengen area.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway because i believe that extending to norway and iceland the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force in the other member states will make a significant contribution to the fight against crossborder crime.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of common rules on succession and the establishment of a european inheritance register, which i voted in favour of, is in line with the conclusions of the tampere conference and with subsequent efforts and initiatives to harmonise the rules of law between the member states. this initiative is a useful continuation and complement to a number of regulations such as the rome i and ii regulations and the brussels i regulation. the integration effort makes a significant contribution to the establishment of legal certainty in the common market and the single european area and underlines the constant orientation of the member states towards achieving a high degree of judicial cooperation. the extension of this commitment to areas of law which until now had been left to the legislative initiative of the member states alone, such as the law of succession, demonstrates the firm commitment of the european states to their common course and can only be encouraging.
in writing. the report offers a weak analysis of the causes of the economic and social crisis, its consequences for women and, inevitably, lacks a focus on policy change. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the report calls for equal representation of women in social, economic and political life and makes important proposals for improvement. specific and binding measures are proposed to protect and promote women's rights, such as pension rights, maternity and paternity leave, access to health care based on a gender perspective, protection from all forms of violence, but also equality in pay, political representation, promotion to positions of political and economic responsibility. the report's key point is the reference to the rights of women regardless of their social status, age, sexual orientation or ethnic origin. the commission is also called upon to implement its commitment to mainstreaming the principle of gender equality in the common european asylum system. finally, it is rightly pointed out that families take different forms (married, unmarried, cohabiting, heterosexual or same-sex, single parent and foster family) and are entitled to equal protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs pietikäinen's report because i believe that women's participation in the decision-making process on an equal footing with men is an important factor in achieving equality, sustainable development, peace and democracy. i also believe that promoting gender balance in politics and foreign relations will contribute to stability, transparency and democracy.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i am against the continuation and completion of the bologna process, which promotes the application of neoliberalism to higher education and transforms the university into a place where the interests of business and the market are served. the triad 'competitiveness-mobility-employability' aims at creating a flexible scientific workforce without fixed employment and professional rights, while at the same time strengthening class barriers in higher education, as it opposes the public and free character that it should have. the bologna process turns education from a public good into a commodity and homogenizes degrees and curricula, not based on the needs of society, but based on the needs of the market. at the same time, through the ects system for the acquisition of the first degree (bachelor), the envisaged postgraduate (master) course and the lifelong learning programmes as they are proposed, it attempts to alter the global scientific knowledge provided to young scientists by providing them only with fragmented and specialised knowledge with the exclusive focus on the interests of their employers. finally, the text does not mention that all the reforms implemented under the neoliberal bologna approach have the effect of underfunding scientific research in the eu member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. in view of the council meeting next month, where developments will be discussed and new objectives will be set again to achieve the bologna process, a number of general findings should be made. twelve years after the bologna declaration, the climate in the eu is very different. firstly, the economic crisis affecting many member states and which has led to the unemployment of millions of young europeans, qualified europeans, young people with a degree, requires a much faster policy on the recognition of their skills in order to encourage, among other things, their mobility. secondly, there is a trend in many member states, as opposed to the previous decade, towards a reduction in expenditure on education of up to 10% compared to 2009 levels. that is not to be overlooked. strong education and strong research in the european area are objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it requires a robust education, not a substandard one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr berlinguer's report because i believe that the contribution of the european institutions to the promotion of the bologna process will continue to be a driving force for the reform of the european higher education system. furthermore, i believe that cooperation between member states will contribute to the creation of the european higher education area, which will help in the efforts to achieve better employment, growth and the other objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the report highlights the difficulties of capitalists in moving towards full implementation of the 'bologna process', due to contradictions in capitalist development between states and sectors. in the mid-term evaluation phase and in the midst of the global capitalist crisis, 'mobility' is emphasised in order to serve the profitability objectives of capital. 'mobility' must be ensured from the time of study so that the new student learns to wander and acquires not scientific knowledge but skills that will enable him to change low-paid jobs without rights. capitalists seek a minimum level of knowledge, so that graduates then pursue degrees and certificates. the capitalists are trying to establish schools to strengthen the class barriers in education. they are giving financial support to lifelong learning programmes and cutting funding for social and student welfare. they insist on the equalisation of qualifications and a single qualification system to ensure cheap skilled labour for the greater competitiveness of the euro-western alliance vis-à-vis other imperialist states and associations. the committee's constant position is that a degree should be the only prerequisite for access to the profession because it is based on solid studies and a clear scientific subject. the only way to do this is through genuinely pro-people development, with a break from the eu which only the power of the working class and its allies can build.
in writing. reliable and high-quality statistics are certainly essential for the formulation of economic and fiscal policy by member states and at eu level. i voted against because the scicluna report, while clearly advocating the elimination of political intervention in statistics, takes an approach which leaves the door wide open in some areas to central political intervention by eurostat and the commission. in particular, it endorses the proposal for a systematic approach to statistical quality, i.e. the logic of statistics of agreed outcomes. the agreed results in today's eu can well be translated into policies of austerity and a dramatic reduction in labour and social rights. the commission and the rapporteur's reports are also in line with the agreement on enhanced economic union, which removes the tool of economic and budgetary policy from the member states. finally, the report wrongly concludes that the risks of statistical fraud have come to the fore with the debt crisis, overlooking the fact that in many cases statistics have been manipulated and used at will in the past, with the responsibility of both the member states' authorities and eurostat accepting them.
in writing. european statistics, in addition to being a tool for evaluating an implemented policy, are crucial insofar as their results can influence or revise the economic and fiscal policies implemented. i therefore voted in favour of the relevant own-initiative report on the strict quality management of european statistics. the need for more reliable, valid and free of bias statistics improves their quality, validity and therefore their effectiveness. among other things, this report outlines suggestions, experiences and best practices that greece should take advantage of.
the first item on the agenda concerns statements by the council and the commission on 'discriminatory websites and governmental reactions'. i would remind you that no questions will be put on this particular point under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure.
this was not a question, it was a statement. mr brons, this process is in order to authorise questions.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, in the name of the commission, let me call on the netherlands authorities to take all appropriate measures to fully assess the lawfulness of this website and to draw the necessary consequences. the netherlands authorities have to look into the matter from different angles. first, the framework decision against racism and xenophobia. the national courts have the responsibility to determine according to the concrete circumstances and context whether a concrete situation represents an incitement to violence or hatred on the basis of race, colour, religion, descent, national or ethnic origin. i want to make it clear that the commission cannot replace the assessment of the relevant criminal judge at national level. second, their national laws on hate speech on the internet. third, there are national laws implementing the 1995 data protection directive. here, it is the dutch data protection authority which is responsible for taking action in order to analyse the initiative, to investigate whether an unlawful processing of personal data is taking place and to take the necessary steps to correct this. this debate was about the unacceptable behaviour of a political party, the reputation of a national government, the rights of individuals to exercise their rights and obligations linked to the free movement directive, the rules commonly agreed by all governments to protect all europeans, and the values – everything we believe in and everything on which we are constructing our common future. i am very glad to have heard the political leaders from a wide political spectrum in this house combine words and forces in order to condemn unacceptable behaviour. i think we can be proud of the european parliament today.
president of the council. - madam president, i have to speak. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. member of the commission! thank you very much for the debate today. i have to be brief, out of respect for the agenda. many important issues and problems have been raised today and i, as president-in-office of the council, have noted both views and concerns. i would like to repeat that the council has not had the opportunity to discuss the question of the handling of internet sites by the member states. but i would also like to make it very clear today that the council of ministers fully and completely respects the principle that no citizen of the union should be discriminated against on grounds of his or her origin. it is a very fundamental principle. it is part of the eu's dna. it is part of our common values and history. i therefore expect all member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of all eu citizens are respected and enforced. this applies both to discrimination and to freedom of expression.
minister wammen, thank you very much, and thank you all, dear colleagues, for this extremely interesting discussion. η συζήτηση έληξε. η ψηφοφορία θα διεξαχθεί την πέμπτη 15 μαρτίου στις 12 το μεσημέρι. γραπτές δηλώσεις (άρθρο 149)
mr president, commissioners, we are aware of all the discussion that is taking place specifically about greece in relation to the oversized public sector and how much it affects its competitiveness, since that is what we are discussing today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i read on page 36 of the report on public employment: the government has committed to cutting public sector employment by at least 150,000 over the period 2010-2015. to achieve this objective, it is expected to strictly apply the existing numerical rule between inflows and outflows of personnel, reduce its contractual employment and transfer to the labour reserve for over 15,000 personnel before their dismissal. i ask you directly, since the commission also took part in the preparation of this report: is the dismissal of public sector employees this year in greece being called for as one of the measures to improve its competitiveness?
member of the commission. − as you know the greek situation in europe is absolutely extraordinary and in the last two years the commission has made all possible efforts, together with other european institutions – and not just european ones but also international financial institutions like the imf – to find the right approach and to ensure that europe as such, the economic and monetary union, becomes more stable and in the end also more dynamic. we can of course discuss various aspects of this experience in the greek context and also in the wider european context which, in recent months, shows signs of sliding back into a kind of recession, at least in the majority of the member states, but it is definitely a very difficult time for the ‘programme countries’. in this context the key is to restore financial stability, to ensure that after the adjustment period there will be a return to stable financing of the real economy and then to ensure that even in such times there is investment, and this is what the taskforce in greece is working on. recently, just a couple of weeks ago, we had an opportunity to meet mr papademos in brussels together with the president of the commission and some eight commissioners working in the greek context. we are doing our utmost to ensure that structural funds continue to flow and the reforms that are implemented will result in the greek economy regaining its competiveness.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would just like to express our understanding of what mr papanikolaou has just said about the demands, the harshness of this national programme, as recommended by the troika, and the difficulty of its implementation. with the greek question, we are faced with an exceptional situation which has warranted exceptional measures. and both the european union, the european central bank, and the international monetary fund have played their part, as have the greek authorities, in agreeing together to extremely tough measures. i would like to link this question, mr papanikolaou, to the debate we are going to have during question time on the question of growth and competitiveness. these exceptional measures were necessary to get out of an exceptionally serious situation and this requires efforts on the part of everyone and first of all on the part of the greek people. i would like to express my confidence that your country has real assets, both through its tourist economy, which is one of the strongest in europe thanks to its natural, cultural and historical heritage, its extremely powerful maritime economy and its extremely large agricultural capacity. and so if the internal market, which is the area of the greek economy, open, is working well, i think your country should play its part in this internal market and find the basis for the revival of its growth and its employment market. that is why the case of greece is linked, like other countries, to what we need to do to restart growth, employment and competitiveness within the internal market.
thank you very much for the answers you gave me. but you didn't answer my question specifically. i repeat: we have a new report from the troika today, which deals with the oversized public sector. what is to be done with those people, the surplus numbers referred to in the report as excess staff? will they be able to stay and continue working? commissioners, i understand what you have said to me, but the crisis is not just about numbers, it is about people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you for what you have said, but it is still a general reference. can we have a more specific approach from you?
vice-president of the commission. − i have nothing against it; it is in the hands of the relevant member states and other states that are devising their baltic strategies. i have nothing against it but i do not think that the commission can create a post for this type of coordination; it would be a little too much.
commissioners, agence europe published yesterday a report by the international labour organisation on social dialogue and the case of greece. the report refers to the measures taken in greece, including those you have described as 'special cases', and concludes that the methods used in greece to improve its competitiveness are at best ineffective and in any case counterproductive. the same conclusions are also adopted by the european confederation of workers. what the international labour organization is suggesting is that you change direction. i would ask you to tell me what you would say to these findings and to this proposal from the international labour organisation.
member of the commission. − i am fully aware of the ilo’s opinion on the situation in greece. i also had an opportunity to discuss it with mr somavia, the secretary-general, who last year also made a speech in the european parliament and addressed this side of the current crisis, among many other important issues. we believe it is very important that social dialogue remains an important part of european social policies, and the economic committee’s position is crystal clear on this. president barroso also said in the state of the union message here that we also want to boost the quality of social dialogue at european level. i have recently had the opportunity to discuss with the head of the task force, mr reichenbach, the importance of agreeing with the social partners. i also raised the issue with mr papademos when he was in brussels two weeks ago to discuss government policies with the commission. i will be in greece, in athens, at the end of this month, and hopefully we will also have an opportunity to meet the social partners and to hear their opinions directly.
i think that you have not answered my question in the main. i understand your difficulty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are not excluded from the decisionmaking process. what social partners? the troika has ordered the abolition of collective agreements. according to eurostat data, greece is experiencing the sharpest fall in hourly labour costs, at 6.5%, while the eurozone is up 1.6%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. it is necessary to take decisive steps in 2013 to exit the crisis and to achieve economic recovery. the eu budget is able to enhance solidarity, boost growth and support employment growth. the slogan for deciding on the eu budget for the next year should therefore be 'growth and jobs' rather than 'scarcity' alone. it should also be made clear to the council that it cannot continue to ignore real needs and outstanding payments, so as not to repeat the situation of last december, when the council refused to finance claims of eur 10 billion. as a result, the execution of these payments was postponed for 2012 and is expected to lead to several problems towards the end of the year. finally, i would like to stress that croatia's accession to the eu should be accompanied by appropriate additional funding and to emphasise my total opposition to any form of rearrangement in the european parliament's top priorities on iter funding.
mr president, i will speak about childhood diabetes, a subject which i follow very closely and for an additional personal reason, because a year and a half ago my now six-year-old niece - an only child - was diagnosed with type a diabetes. i will always remember the parents' first attempts, i will always remember her father's attempt to negotiate with his insurance company to explain that his fund had to cover the special equipment the child needed to measure sugar, because it had not been included in the arrangements they had agreed upon. i remember that when the child was taken to the public day care centre where he had been admitted, after the diagnosis and in accordance with the advice of the doctors, some tried to convince the parents that the child should go to school later so that he could, as they said, stabilize. i would like to say that even today in modern europe there is a great deal of ignorance about these matters. there are prejudices and misunderstandings which eventually lead to discrimination, which, as we all know very well, is not allowed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the child with childhood diabetes will grow up like all children, will have a family like all children, will live happily like all children.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is obvious that many of our member states face a lot of difficulties relating to the economic crisis. i do not want to undermine the severity of the problems, and of course i do not expect to solve these problems through today’s proposal. as you perhaps know, however, the commission committed at the euro summit of july 2011 to provide more liquidity to the member states most affected by the crisis by increasing the co-financing rates in eu funds, and this proposal follows on from that. i think the proposal is a positive measure: we are trying to facilitate the absorption of the funds. we are trying to help member states facing difficulties, but of course the crisis, and all the problems deriving from it, are a very important issue that cannot be solved in the margins of this discussion. this proposal is limited in scope, since the purpose of these amendments is specifically to provide more liquidity to member states. parliament and the council have already adopted the necessary amendments for the european regional fund, the cohesion fund, the social fund and the agricultural fund for rural development. now this house will vote on similar amendments to the european fisheries fund. the sustained financial and economic crisis is indeed increasing the pressure on national financial resources as member states reduce their budgets. i share the rapporteur’s concerns about this. ensuring the smooth implementation of national operational programmes adopted under eu funds is, therefore, of particular importance. the implementation of fisheries operational programmes, in particular, injects funds into the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. we want to allow the most affected member states – those that have received financial assistance under the european financial stabilisation mechanism or from the balance of payments mechanism – to continue to implement their european fisheries programmes on the ground and disburse funds to projects. to achieve this purpose, our proposal would allow the commission to reimburse newly declared expenditure by an increased amount for the period in which a member state was under these support mechanisms. this increased amount would be calculated by applying an additional 10 percentage points to the applicable co-financing rates of each priority axis of the operational programmes. the total financial allocation for the period from the eff to the countries and the programmes concerned will not change; the proposal will thus not affect the overall budget. actually the new budget is in front of this house, and you can discuss this greater issue in the framework of this discussion. the cooperation between parliament, council, and the commission on this file has been excellent, since all parties were aware of the importance of adopting the proposal as quickly as possible. i expect that a positive vote in plenary will lead to the proposal’s imminent adoption, which will enable us to come to the assistance of those member states that most need this facilitation as soon as possible.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, i wholeheartedly support this legislation because it is a real act of solidarity. the positive aspect is not only the savings in resources, which in the case of greece amount to 20 million euros, but also the possibility of accessing the european resources that these countries are acquiring. many countries are affected by the crisis. the crisis is affecting the whole of europe, but today it is showing its most severe face in certain countries which are unable to give their own rate of participation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these resources represent an opportunity to finance the priorities of the fisheries fund, such as sustainable development, sustainable fisheries and the development of coastal areas, as well as support for young fishermen. this is very important at a time when the most severe aspect of the crisis is precisely youth unemployment, which is approaching 50% in many of the countries hit by the crisis. it is clear that this legislation touches the heart of the problem. the message i would really like to send to the mediterranean countries which will benefit from this regulation, and to the other countries of the european union, is that we must seize the opportunity to implement either the mediterranean regulation or other fisheries regulations so that we can guarantee that there will be fish, guarantee that fisheries resources will be protected so that there will be fishermen and there will be the jobs we so badly need.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i congratulate mr ferreira on his report with the proposals and amendments to the regulation and i note that i was particularly pleased to hear the views of commissioner damannakis. the acceleration and facilitation of financing provided by the european fisheries fund certainly contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the importance of such a proposal is great because it is taken at an important juncture. we will soon have to decide on the new common fisheries policy of the union, which will define fisheries policy for the next ten years. the provision of adequate resources and the elimination of absorption failures is crucial to achieve the desired results and to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources. as we have heard, the absorption of the fisheries fund's resources is at very low levels. i should like to stress that in greece in particular small-scale and coastal fishermen make their living from fishing, which makes it extremely important to increase resources and to facilitate the distribution of resources to fishermen. in addition to the reduced national share of the available resources, we ask you, commissioner, to propose that the new budget under preparation should increase these resources because, as we all know, fishermen are suffering. this report recognises the pressure and the ways in which the ongoing credit and financial crisis is affecting fishermen's income and the formulation of fisheries policy in general. the economic and financial crisis in the union is of course manifesting itself differently in the various member states, but all of europe is affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask that efforts be made in this direction and that money be directed where it is needed without prejudice to economic growth and job creation.
the proposal for a regulation does not serve the interests of small and poor fishermen but, on the contrary, accelerates their disappearance. the common fisheries policy, which is being implemented by the european fisheries fund, is destroying small-scale coastal fishermen by financing the destruction of small fishing vessels, with painful economic and social consequences for workers and for the inhabitants of the continental and island regions. the concentration and profitability of large business groups active in fisheries, aquaculture, fish processing and marketing is encouraged. the uncontrolled overfishing and destruction of the environment, including protected areas under the natura 2000 programme, which is being carried out with the approval of the governments of the member states of the european union, will not be stopped or stopped because the criterion of the common fisheries policy is to increase the profitability of european monopolies. the reduction in the member states' contribution to the european fisheries fund will not benefit small fishermen because the total amount of eu funding remains the same, which means that the number of projects and actions planned will be reduced and their funding will be even more selective. projects which fall within the strategic objectives of the common fisheries policy and the capitalist restructuring of the european union's europe 2020 strategy and which serve the competitiveness and profitability of european fisheries monopolies, thus accelerating the disappearance and destruction of poor and small fishermen, especially those in small-scale coastal fishing, will be eligible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the results will be poverty, impoverishment and the persecution of small fishermen to increase the profits of european monopolies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union has already made a major contribution to the process of democratization in macedonia, and we are convinced that the process of democratization will be completed in the near future. i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the first problem concerns the name issue because, as long as we treat it as a bilateral issue, when it is an international problem and is being dealt with within the framework of the un, we are not sending the right message to the government of macedonia to take the necessary steps to solve the problem. as long as this problem is not solved, whatever the allegations are, the government of macedonia cannot concentrate on the problems that colleagues have mentioned and which need to be addressed in order to enter the european union. secondly, i do not think that joining the european union is linked to whether or not you are a member of nato and whether or not you participate in nato campaigns. since when have we found this new criterion that essentially turns the country into a vehicle for serving american eastern interests? the third problematic observation is that, while macedonia is a country of unemployment and poverty, we are actually recommending, if not imposing, these conservative neoliberal policies which are leading to the crisis and will only exacerbate these problems further. for these reasons i do not agree with the motion for a resolution tabled by mr richard howitt.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the commission's progress report notes shortcomings in critical areas such as freedom of expression, justice, public administration, corruption and many others, and contains stricter recommendations than last year's progress report. i am afraid, however, that the author of the resolution is taking a worse approach, one that is much less realistic than that of mr füle and mr wammen, who have also discreetly raised the question of the name. on the contrary, in paragraph 15 the author of the resolution is trying to go beyond the mandate he has received, i.e. to draft a resolution on fyrom, by the short way, and is trying to put a name to it, which is beyond his mandate. the use of such a rhetorical device is unacceptable and goes beyond the bounds of legality because it does not promote democracy, good neighbourly relations or good cooperation between member states, values which the european parliament espouses, and certainly does not contribute positively to the negotiations to find a mutually acceptable solution. i am also struck by paragraph 62, which congratulates the country on the very good performance of its national team in the european basketball championship! are we serious ? i think that this report diminishes macedonia and turns the motion for a resolution into a sports newspaper. i would like to stress one thing, namely that we politicians must not create unrealistic expectations. the macedonian people are a country which i hope will meet all the criteria for accession in the future and will one day join the european union. but today it does not.
question of the day: blue card. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to take a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to take a decision on the matter. what do you base that on?
the european commission's report, mr president, is very clear about the present situation in the neighbouring country and it does of course recommend the opening of accession negotiations. all those who commented on the subject claimed that a supposed bilateral dispute cannot prevent a country from joining the european union. the problem is not the name, however, but the propaganda, the attempt to make the problems seem too big and to go against the real history and logic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot accept, and no greek government can accept, despite the economic problems - because i understood the suggestion made by my colleague - that accession negotiations with that country should be started without the problem being solved. i would remind you that the council has sole responsibility for this matter and i therefore think that instead of encouraging this country to continue with this incredible propaganda, which comes from the old historical regime (i am referring to the communist bloc and its plans), it would be better to tell this country what it really needs to do if it wants to have good neighbourly relations with other countries.
mr president, we all here believe that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia should join the euro-atlantic institutions. we also believe that the reform effort must go forward and that a solution must be found to important problems such as corruption or human rights violations. the thorn of course that remains is the unresolved name issue. despite the progress made over the past two years, mr gruevski is still playing the same games and refusing to engage in constructive dialogue. the upcoming nato summit is the reason why there is mobility again. we repeat that a satisfactory solution must be found for both sides on the basis that has been described so many times. this solution should be a geographical indication using erga omnes. every day we waste is a missed opportunity to overcome the problem. greece, despite its difficulties and despite the economic crisis, has not stopped making efforts to find a solution. we welcome the high-level contacts with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, although they are, as has been clearly stated, in no way a substitute for accession negotiations. the key to the country's progress towards european institutions is solely the resolution of the name issue. (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer with a blue card. it was the hope of all of us that the court's decision could give a boost to the negotiations and help to speed up the dialogue. that, unfortunately, has not happened. as far as nato is concerned, i believe that solving the name problem will help the country to move in the direction of both the european union and nato. the key, i repeat, is to solve the name problem.
question with a blue card. mr president, you have described the name issue and the fact that one country does not accept the name of another as unusual. macedonia is a geographical area. a part of it, the largest part, belongs to the hellenic republic. another part belongs to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and a third part belongs to bulgaria. so there are three states and three peoples in one area. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east for a long time, and it is not the council that is responsible for this. do you think it's the other two peoples who don't recognize this country or this people who want to monopolize the name? i want your answer.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the development of a european medicinal products agency is a very good one. we supported this strategic objective with the thessaloniki agenda in 2003 and we will do so again in 2014, when greece will again hold the presidency of the european union. this is an objective which concerns all the western balkan countries without exception. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external relations are not affected by the crisis. this is what happened in slovenia and croatia. the name problem is a real and serious problem, which may come from the past but is here, it is present and it is a serious political problem. there is no way this problem is just bilateral. in fact, mr nimitz, the un special negotiator, recently called it a problem. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to ask you at voting time, in the languages that have the masculine and the feminine, to use both to show respect for female colleagues. (applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report because i believe that the economic and financial crisis in the union requires that funding from the european fisheries fund be accelerated and facilitated, particularly for the economically weaker countries affected by the crisis. we must help to develop the economy and create jobs in the sector.
in writing. it is clear from a recent reply from the european commission to my question that more than 1% of the gdp of the eu member states (5% worldwide) is lost to corruption and the commission of economic crimes. in greece, this corresponds to an amount exceeding eur 3 billion. corruption is not limited to the economy, however. it is spreading in various sectors of our society, such as sport, the recent events in germany, italy and greece, the judiciary, etc. the fight against and elimination of this scourge is therefore not only morally imperative but also economically necessary in these difficult times. the decision to set up a subcommittee in the european parliament confirms the ep's commitment to monitoring, legislating and stepping up its efforts to tackle organised crime such as money laundering and corruption. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. it is estimated that some 215 million children are engaged in activities that violate their rights and harm their health or dignity. international resolutions and treaties provide a clear framework for the minimum age for entry into the labour market and for conditions in the labour market. the cocoa sector is unfortunately one of many sectors employing millions of children, requiring high work intensity, offering minimal wages and violating almost all of these rights. it is clear that the western world bears its own responsibility for the widespread incidents of forced child labor on cocoa plantations. this resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on the member states, and in particular the european commission, which concludes bilateral agreements with cocoa producing countries, in particular those in africa, to ensure, inter alia, that all trade agreements include effective provisions and legally binding clauses on internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards and their enforcement, and that they provide for action in the event of violations;
in writing. diabetes education, prevention and research are very important for the health of european citizens. i believe that cooperation between member states in this area, and a possible european strategy against diabetes with specific objectives, will help to reduce inequalities and make better use of health resources.
in writing. weighing the pros and cons of the plan, i voted white. i would like a resolution that more strongly sets out the framework for a mutually acceptable solution to all the problems. the draft resolution has many positive points but also serious problems which, in the end, do not allow me to vote in favour of it as i would like. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. the name solution should indeed include solutions for the acceptance of ethnic and linguistic self-identification of fyrom, with a view to the future and on terms that will not undermine the right of other ethnic groups in the wider historical-geographical macedonia to identify themselves as macedonians if they wish. the wording of the report, article 15, is a serious problem here and does not help to give impetus and time to truly comprehensive solutions. the report should provide an opportunity to resolve the problem through dialogue and mutually acceptable compromise, making use of the process of macedonia's accession to european structures and setting a timetable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i voted against mr howitt's report because i think that the rapporteur, through paragraph 15, is trying to circumvent the mandate given to him to draw up a report on fyrom and is trying to form a name, which is beyond his mandate.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, if we look at the effectiveness of the institutional bodies set up between the european union and russia, we find that little progress has been made in the matter of rapprochement between the two sides. why is that ? it doesn't bother us? i think that we are both wrong and that we cannot be effective in anything that concerns the relationship between europe and russia. if we really want to cooperate with russia, which i think is very necessary, we must carefully plan new approaches. russia's entry into the world trade organization is good news and a big step. so far, what the european union and the european parliament have done is to denounce what is happening in russia. we're only whistleblowers. this attitude does not produce and does not create anything. on the contrary, i believe it slows down and burdens the approach of both sides. we are dealing with russia unilaterally at a time when we need to start with a multifaceted cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, culture and education and then move on to human rights. i would like to share with you a personal experience. years ago, i met with an arab leader, who is now one of the most outstanding arab leaders. at the time, he had just returned from moscow and described to me how he and president putin were commenting that "these europeans want to tell us how to run our countries". i think that there is a great gap between european culture and some countries. i also believe that we must take the lead in approaching these countries.
mr president, the debate on upgrading our relations with kazakhstan has begun. a new partnership agreement will certainly be beneficial to both sides, as kazakhstan is an important partner of ours in central asia that can become even more important. the progress of the negotiations must, however, be in line with the progress of political reforms in that country. the reforms needed to create an open and democratic society are vital. the european parliament has always been committed to respecting fundamental rights and will continue to be committed to this in all circumstances. free and fair elections, the right to strike, independent information and trade union organisations are strategically important issues for europe and this must be understood by the kazakh authorities. i would ask the high representative to make it clear to the other side during the negotiations that there is no way we are going to compromise on our values and principles. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer is "blue card". human rights are non-negotiable. the fact is that we often have double standards in the european union. this is not right. we must continue our fight firmly so that our relations with all third countries cannot be called into question when they are examined in the light of human rights.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is well aware of the threat piracy is posing to european – and not only european – ships and crews. it is unacceptable that criminal gangs are allowed to continue to take the international shipping lanes hostage and bring suffering to thousands of seafarers and their families – not to mention the threat to the stability and prosperity of the region and somalia itself. we all agree that only a comprehensive approach can bring a sustainable solution to the problem of piracy. containing maritime piracy at sea and ending impunity are two important elements of the eu’s comprehensive approach to combat piracy. others relate to building regional capacities and the stabilisation of somalia itself. also, we definitely should not forget cooperation with the maritime industry. when it comes to containing piracy at sea, the most visible of all eu counter-piracy action is eunavfor – operation atalanta. the council has just decided to prolong its mandate to december 2014. but how do we make sure justice is served, once suspects have been arrested by the naval forces? one way of addressing impunity is by the prosecution of piracy suspects in the region. the commission directly supports countries in the region which have accepted transfers for prosecution by eunavfor and established a joint programme with the un in support of judicial capacities. this cooperation is an excellent example of how commission programmes and common security and defence policy actions go hand in hand. piracy has to be understood as organised crime that is happening at sea and on land. in the long run, only the establishment of the rule of law, good governance and economic development will bring the solutions we are seeking. the eu is therefore strongly committed to supporting somalia in finding a political solution to the ongoing crisis. at the recent london conference, the international community showed strong determination to support the transition process in somalia. to date, the eu is the biggest donor to somalia, having committed eur 415 million for development aid through the european development fund for the period 2008 to 2013. on top of these bilateral funds come additional budget funds from horizontal lines and eur 77 million during 2011 for humanitarian aid. part of the new development funds will be directed to supporting the fishing industry, building alternative livelihoods and helping coastal communities and rural development more generally, thus tackling some of the root causes of piracy. the european union is also supporting the development of somali security capacities. in addition to the training of police officers – we also provide some financial support if they stay in the service of the somali government – we are the main donor to the african union peacekeeping mission in somalia, which is funded through the african peace facility. since 2007 the european union has provided eur 325 million and the commission is proposing additional support for amisom. as in the area of counter-piracy efforts, commission action is closely linked with council-led csdp actions such as the eu training mission to somalia (eutm). there is also an important role for the maritime industry to play in containing the threat of piracy. it is vital to implement international maritime organisation-supported ‘best management practices’ on board ships under eu member state flags. let me also assure you that the commission is following very closely the case of two italian marines, salvatore girone and massimiliano latorre, who are now in custody in india. we have been in constant touch with the italian government on this issue from the beginning. following italy’s request for assistance, the eu has raised the issue with the indian authorities both in brussels and in new delhi, encouraging a positive outcome as soon as possible. yesterday the high representative, cathy ashton, also discussed these matters with prime minister mario monti, who thanked the high representative for the eu’s efforts. it is clear that we need to address this issue in the broader context of our cooperation on counter-piracy and, more specifically, the regulation of armed protection aboard ships. we need to see what lessons we can learn to prevent this type of incident from happening ever again. the european union and india had already agreed in principle to work on these broader policy issues, and this is what we are currently also taking forward. but we have to differentiate between this case of eu member states’ security forces protecting commercial shipment and using private contractors for armed deterrence on board commercial ships and even distant fishing vessels. due to the immensity of the sea area where somali pirates now operate and the scarce naval resources available to protect this shipping lane, the industry has had no other choice than to turn to the services provided by privately contracted armed security personnel on board ships transiting the high-risk areas. this is an increasing phenomenon that we cannot ignore. the international maritime organisation has already addressed this item and issued interim recommendations but, as no solution to piracy is apparent in the short term, we believe this must be addressed in more depth. we are not confident with the idea of self-regulation by this new business in view of the risks involved in this kind of activity, which can potentially lead to the – sometimes lethal – use of force. in this regard we think that the imo is the international body that should lead to the development of very clear, stringent rules and, in particular, of a mandatory instrument. ensuring prosecution of pirates captured at sea only takes care of one part of the problem. it is therefore vital to increase the ‘risk/reward’ ratio for those who benefit most from piracy, and the eu has decided to step up its efforts to break the underlying business model. law enforcement agencies of eu member states, interpol and europol are currently cooperating, not only in attempting to trace any flows going into eu member states but also in collecting evidence packages against leaders, financiers and instigators. another element of the eu comprehensive approach is the support of the region. it is in the strategic interest of regional countries to engage in the fight against piracy. the eu is definitely keen to assist and enhance local ownership. this is why the european union has been a strong supporter of the eastern and southern africa – indian ocean regional strategy and action plan, which was adopted in october 2010 in mauritius to fight piracy and promote maritime security. support measures are under way, and up to eur 40 million of further support is currently under consideration. we have also been enhancing the surveillance capacities of our partner countries through the eu’s network of fisheries partnership agreements, which strengthen our relations with the countries in the western indian ocean area, and the regional surveillance programme which we have been financing with eur 10 million from 2007 to 2011, and which is going to be renewed. the critical maritime routes programme funded under the instrument for stability has also focused since 2009 on the security and safety of essential maritime routes in the areas affected by piracy. in close coordination with the imo, one of the projects contributes to the implementation of the regional djibouti code of conduct. i would like to thank the european parliament especially for requesting a pilot project on ‘maritime awareness’, which will provide technical tools to help the authorities to be aware of what goes on at sea. these programmes will work very closely with the planned regional maritime capacity building mission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, no one could have foreseen a few years ago that piracy would today constitute such a serious threat to international trade and shipping, to regional and international security. above all, however, piracy threatens the safety and lives of thousands of seafarers working on ships that ply the dangerous waters of the gulf of aden and the indian ocean. right now, hundreds of sailors are being held hostage. they and their families live through dramatic hours, days, even months. the human dimension of piracy itself obliges us to take more decisive action. piracy has become a highly profitable business for pirates, high-profit, low-risk. their tactics are changing and their operational capabilities are being dramatically strengthened in a region of great strategic value to the international economy. three million barrels of oil a day and about 50 percent of the world's container trade pass through this region. the annual cost of piracy is estimated to be between 7 and 12 billion dollars. piracy is a strategic threat, it is a shared challenge that requires collective action. the causes of piracy are found on land but its effects are found at sea. the european union, with the largest shipping fleet in the world, must act more effectively. today we must take a decisive lead in the international effort against piracy. the next few months are going to be crucial. in coordination with the international maritime organisation, the un and nato, we must finally identify the flow of illegal and black money, resolve legal gaps for the effective prosecution of pirates, prevent the dispersal of pirate bases in a wider area and promote the establishment of maritime exclusive economic zones in the region, in accordance with the international law of the sea. i have listened carefully to what you have said. i would add that another positive step has been taken, namely the appointment of a representative to the horn of africa. this is a positive development. i said i listened to you carefully for all the measures. it's all positive. you know what i missed ? the determination. i didn't see the determination we're looking for. we expect a lot more.
question of the day: blue card. mr van orden, i listened to you very carefully. you refer once again to the efforts of the european union to combat piracy, to tell us in essence that the european union should not have a common security and defence policy. that's wrong and you know it. the first operation to be undertaken, namely operation atlanta, was the european union's. after a delay of many months, nato followed suit. the first reaction was european and results have been achieved. i think that you should be clear about what you want to do with your intervention and what the message is.
the absolute poverty and misery of millions of people caused by capitalism in africa, asia and latin america is being exploited by powerful international circles, which develop piracy as a highly profitable business activity that exploits busy trade routes and is linked to the trade in arms and drugs and to prostitution circles. the phenomenon of piracy and armed robbery at sea has taken on a great dimension, with thousands of seafarers falling victim. the qualitative diversification of piracy is characterised by the upgrading of the activity of the pirate ring, because the target is no longer limited to robbing the seafarers and taking food or various other items from the ship, but is extended to the capture of ships and crews, the sale of cargo and the seizure of ransoms worth millions of euros. the concentration in the horn of africa and the wider region of powerful naval forces of the usa, nato, the european union and other states, china, russia and india, has nothing to do with the fight against piracy. in the context of their broader geostrategic ambitions, piracy is used as a pretext to consolidate their position, to advance their military plans, to control strategically important points in the region, such as the gulf of aden, the arabian sea and the persian gulf. developments in the persian gulf, the aggression of israel, the united states and nato against iran and the preparation of a new imperialist war find a naval machine in the region ready for war, reinforced under the pretext of piracy. the search for ships and crews to transport military equipment for major nato military operations in the persian gulf region is already underway. the issue is further complicated by the decision of the governments of the member states of the european union to station armed guards on merchant ships. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a catastrophic accident at sea. the solution proposed is hopeless and poses a threat to human life at sea, to seafarers and to the people of the wider region in general.
madam president, we should welcome the recent council decisions on a comprehensive approach to combating piracy, which concern, firstly, the appointment of a special representative for the horn of africa, which strengthens the union's diplomatic action in the region, secondly, the new operational concept which extends the activities of the atalanta mission and, thirdly, the preparation of a new mission, within the framework of the european defence and security policy, to support the development of capabilities at local level. it is important, however, to look at what has not been done properly in recent years. on the operational side, there is a real need to overcome the obstacles to the activation of the operational centre in brussels, because only in this way will central planning and better coordination between the various missions and activities of the european union be ensured. the athens mechanism should also be reviewed in order to secure funding and strengthen participation in missions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. but we must also consider the potential risks of operations off the coast of somalia and focus more on the need to tackle the causes that are fuelling piracy. as for the causes, it is well known that instability and poverty in somalia has pushed ordinary citizens into this illegal activity. the solution can in no way be purely military. in parallel with any military action, it is necessary to strengthen institutions and the rule of law and, above all, to make a greater effort to tackle the root causes of piracy, with an emphasis on information, awareness-raising and, of course, development and job creation.
madam president, the problem of somali pirates does not start in the water but on land. as long as the country continues to be the most disintegrated state in the world, as the british foreign secretary recently called it, its young people will seek ways and find motives to turn to piracy. but our ships and their crews cannot be left to their own devices until the rebuilding of the somali state is completed. the reduced eunavfor forces are not sufficient for the huge task they have undertaken and pirates who are caught are not always subjected to due judicial process. the commission has also proposed that the united nations should be consulted on the matter. but the lack of progress is perpetuating the enormous insecurity that crews and shipping continue to experience, while international trade and consumers continue to bear the lion's share of the total annual cost of piracy, which, according to a recent study, is estimated to be possibly as high as $7 billion.
mr president, we have a good and balanced report on the present policy, but we do not have a good and balanced policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the environment, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the environment. for example, 70% of the panels are produced in asia and 70% are consumed in europe, with subsidies from european consumers. third, the ets and the carbon leakage conditions have been completely reversed compared to 2008. the deep crisis in southern europe, combined with the rapid industrial development in turkey, for example, has turned the tables. turkey will have an average of more than 27 emissions in the current decade without having made any commitments and without showing any desire to make any commitments on its emissions. so we have to rethink.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank mr peter liese for the very clear way he condensed what must be the european response to the discussion over ets and aviation. of course europe cannot give in to threats: that i think and hope will be clear to everyone here. we are very much engaged in trying to get the global agreement that we have been working for since 1997 through icao. as we speak there is an icao meeting in montreal, where eu member states are very well represented and are fighting hard to try to set icao on track to an international global way of regulating aviation as the global sector that it is. the commission is also there, and we are now posting two people there permanently for a period to work with icao in order to push things forward as best we can. so we are following exactly the two strands that peter liese was clearly saying that european policies should be based on. mr leinen asked me about the commission’s strategy vis-à-vis poland. i noted with great interest yesterday that the vice-premier of poland, mr waldemar pawlak, very clearly stated in the polish press that, for instance, when it comes to energy efficiency, he saw the very large potential in poland, also in economic terms. there will be ways forward. some of the more unfortunate part of the discussions up to and in the council last friday was probably that it was as if the milestones that we are discussing should apply today, as if we were talking binding targets and specific effort-sharing at this stage. that is all for later. of course we also have an eu budget which could help some member states to make a transition and achieve energy efficiency and more efficient grid systems and so on. i am sure that there are good ways forward when it comes to what we have seen from poland. there was another question on shipping. we are now analysing options for shipping, as we were asked to do by the european parliament. last year we had a number of meetings with stakeholders where we were discussing options forward. so that work is being done in the commission. mr ouzký asked what the point of all this is without global cooperation. to make it very clear: there is global cooperation. it is not bringing the world fast enough to where it should be, but i think that durban was proof that it is possible to push international climate negotiations forward a little. one of the outcomes of durban was that all countries of the world now admit that we have to be equally legally bound by 2020. that has been a key ask for europe for many years as well as from this parliament, so it is just one example that things are moving forward – but too slowly. to focus on energy efficiency and renewables will also be in our own industrial, economic and job-wise interests. it is not either-or; it is both the international track and also what we do in our own region. to mention just one fact: even poland is importing energy from outside. so this is also about our economy and our energy security. last year in europe we paid eur 315 billion for our oil (imported oil – just the oil part). that is a lot of money. our trade deficit was usd 115 billion if you take us all together. eur 315 billion is a very, very large burden macroeconomically speaking. it would be good if, through intelligent climate and energy policies, we could reduce that kind of bill and at the same time increase our energy independence. i agree with ms yannakoudakis, who said that we should also look at some of the possibilities here and not just at the challenges. the final two points. ms gardini said: look at the eurobarometer. yes, please do: look at the eurobarometer. a new one on climate was produced last autumn, the first since 2009. never have the europeans been as concerned about climate change, and they asked for intelligent climate policies which also address energy efficiency, energy security and can also lead to growth and jobs in europe. so please look at the eurobarometer. the last point. mr cramer said that it was crazy to plan for the future. i think mr cramer is expressing a view that many would take when discussing 2050, as if we did not have enough challenges here and now. i think that it is totally irresponsible not to plan for the future – especially here, because the kind of investments you are talking about when it comes to energy systems, for instance, lock in your energy choices for the next 40, 50 or 60 years. that is why short-termism will not work there. it is clear, however, that when you are talking about 2050 there is – and should be – a limit as to how detailed the policies you can come up with are. what we are doing here is setting a direction. we are, as mankind, at a crossroads. where do we go? which road do we choose? do we follow business as usual – that is, do nothing and continue to build on fossil fuels, which we know will be more expensive, restricted and limited in the future, knowing that that will only make things worse? or do we use our knowledge, our technologies, man’s ingenuity to pursue a cleaner and greener kind of growth? that is the kind of choice we have to make, and we have to make it now. that is the whole point of the roadmap: the sooner you make that choice, the more cost-efficient the transition will be. neither i nor the commission is in doubt as to which way we should choose, but i am glad to note that a very large majority in this european parliament is also not in doubt. i thank you very much for that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 15 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the 6th world water forum, tabled by mr richard seeber, mrs sophie auconie, mrs daciana octavia sârbu, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr satu hassi, mr miroslav ouzký and mrs sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000013/2012 - b7-0101/2012)
mr president, i would like to ask you and the house to vote on the report by mr chris davies, as it is rightly proposed.
mr president, in my speech i did not ask that the chris davies report not be voted on today, but that it be put to the vote before the report, that is to say, that the davies report be voted on first. i think there's been a misunderstanding.
in writing. low carbon emissions require their replacement by new forms of energy. it is clear that europe's energy dependence and the damage that hydrocarbon exploitation has caused to the global ecosystem are pressing for a common european strategy with a 40-year horizon for europe's energy future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. for greece, this debate is of vital importance. the new technological revolution taking shape in the western world in particular, our country, rich in sun and wind, can play a leading role. the economic crisis that the country is currently going through should not only not disorient us but, on the contrary, should alert us to finally exploit, for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of society and the environment, the comparative advantages we have in the field of alternative energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency.
in writing. the united nations millennium declaration of 8 september 2000, which contained the millennium development goals, envisaged, among other things, the halving by 2015 of the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation, a target which does not appear to be being achieved. today, almost half the world's population lacks sanitation, and over 800 million people still use unsafe sources of drinking water. the european parliament, in this joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, declares that water, as a common resource of mankind, should not be a source of profit. access to it must be a fundamental and universal right. it therefore calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to achieve the un millennium development goals by, inter alia, calling for the adoption of integrated water management plans in conjunction with spatial planning at international, national and local scales.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the world water forum because i believe that water is a common good to which all people should have access without discrimination. the protection of the environment, including drinking water resources, and the protection of public health must continue to be priorities for any water management policy. finally, i believe that water plays an important role in areas such as peace, cooperation, economic development and the preservation of a blue planet.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, on behalf of the socialists and democrats, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kacin, on his report, and i would like to express my satisfaction at the granting of candidate status to serbia. and that for two main reasons: firstly, because it is a recognition of the country's own efforts on its european path and secondly because, in the current context of economic crisis and general fatigue over enlargement, this step is a practical proof that the enlargement policy is continuing and that the european union intends to fulfil its commitments to the integration of all the western balkan countries. we congratulate the serbian people and the country's leadership on the important steps taken and encourage them to continue the effort to modernise society and administration, but also to compromise and to familiarize themselves with the mistakes of the past. we believe that president tadic deserves special congratulations for his political action, for the reconciliation in the former yugoslavia and for his firm commitment to serbia's european path. this contribution was recognised yesterday with the award of the north-south prize of the council of europe. the recognition of his face is an honor for all of serbia. the agreements reached in the dialogue between belgrade and pristina create expectations for the normalisation of the situation to the benefit of all the inhabitants of the region. the implementation of what has been agreed and the continuation of the dialogue are of key importance. it is the responsibility of all concerned, including the european union itself, to contribute to its successful continuation. the peaceful settlement of disputes and reconciliation between peoples are principles at the heart of the european project. the european union is a great example of a great europe, a great europe, a great europe, a great europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the resolution is promoting the european union's imperialist policy and the ambitions of the monopolies in the western balkans. it is a period of deep capitalist crisis and acute imperialist competition for markets and spheres of influence. the resolution supports the imposition of capitalist restructuring, the plundering of kosovo's natural wealth, and the worsening of unemployment and poverty. it is provoking the residents of northern kosovo who are resisting the occupying forces of the european union and nato. the european union is seeking to perpetuate the presence of the kfor, eulex and the largest american base outside the usa. it is trying to impose recognition of a nato and european union protectorate, a product of the dirty war against the yugoslav people, and it is openly blackmailing the serbian people into accepting the dismemberment of the country in order to begin the process of joining the european union. it thus opens the floodgates to the aggravation of ethnic conflicts, the incitement of separatist movements and the redrawing of borders. there is a danger of a general outbreak of war. we are fighting against the presence of foreign troops in the balkans, we are fighting for a europe of peace and friendship between peoples which can only be built on the ruins of the european union.
madam president, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur on another excellent report. turkey continues to send contradictory signals about its intentions and its european course. on the one hand, a debate has begun on a new constitution that will be free of the legacy of military rule. on the other hand, it continues to persecute journalists and intellectuals who dissent. today, more than 100 journalists remain in prison, and recently erdogan himself said that a book can be as dangerous as a bomb. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's proposal to withdraw from the european union. but it continues to threaten to use force against member states and to provoke by claiming that it intends to have no contact with the incoming cypriot presidency. if turkey really wants to join, it must understand that this attitude has consequences. the accession negotiations are not progressing and have come to a standstill. it is time for those in charge in ankara to reflect on what has gone wrong and to take responsibility. integration is not an automatic process. it requires a steadfast commitment that is proven by works and actions and not by setbacks. the logic of turkey one step forward, two steps back cannot be accepted.
mr president, there is no doubt that turkey, as the report emphasizes, is a developing economy, a populous country and has a strategic role to play in the stability and security of the wider east. we hope that turkey will take up the message of the report, which is characterized by complete objectivity. i think that turkey is not able to solve its problems in the western way, despite the european path it wants. i would like to mention, for example, that it maintains invasion and occupation troops in a part of cyprus, a country of the european union, in violation of united nations resolutions. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. i think that this is a disregard for the european union in particular and if turkey does this, further action should be stopped ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on the political depth of her report. the european union institutions have always maintained their political will for turkey's european perspective. the question is whether turkey itself has the real will to become a european country. the disadvantages of the system in turkey are mainly those of democracy in the current sense. the basic building blocks of a genuine democratic government are freedom of speech, religious freedoms, freedom of the various national communities to maintain their cultural identity, constitutional adaptation to the modern model of democracy, diplomatic approach to foreign policy issues and avoidance of threats, adherence to the principles of good neighbourliness, avoidance of encroachment on the national territory of other states and provocations towards neighbours, respect for the principles and values of the structure of which turkey seeks to become part and, consequently, the obligation that has been recognised by all the parties constituting the european union. in addition, the issue of illegal immigration through turkey and its refusal to implement the existing agreements raises many questions. mr president, turkey is welcome in europe if and when it decides to take the necessary measures and does not want to remain with one foot on asian and the other on european lines.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, look at the following sequence of events: on february 23, the turkish minister of defense announced to the grand national assembly of turkey the purchase of 100 f15 fighter jets for the next four years. cost: $16 billion. a month later, on 21 march, the turkish research vessel piri reis is conducting illegal research activities on the greek shelf. on 24 march the turkish frigate gaziantep entered greek territorial waters, reaching the coast of the suni river. i believe that you know, ladies and gentlemen, where sounion and the temple of poseidon are, and how far away they are from athens! the illegal sailing of the turkish frigate has forced the greek navy and air force to mobilize, and i ask you, commissioner, is it national masochism for greece to pay 3.5% of its gnp for defence expenditure? more than any other member state? what do you have to say about this in turkey?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am in favour of montenegro's accession to the european union, as indeed of all the countries of the western balkans, if the people so wish, if the political forces agree. but we believe that this process, the accession negotiations, should be the occasion for solving economic, social, democratic and human rights problems for the benefit of the people. in this sense the report has such positive implications, particularly in the establishment of a modern democratic state and in the fight against organised crime. but there are two points which i should like to stress, since the case of montenegro is one of the easiest we have in the balkans, and i would say that we do not agree to such questions being raised or in this way. the first is that it offsets membership of the european union and nato. nato, as you know, is a problematic organisation and particularly in this region it does not have the best reputation, i am speaking in the case of the balkans in general, and the second point is that we are essentially promoting economic solutions, such as foreign investment, the flexibilization of labour, which is certain (there is high unemployment in montenegro) to worsen the situation of workers. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. i would like to see these points removed from the report by my colleague.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really happy to be here today. it has, as the rapporteur has said, been a long journey to where we stand today, and i would like to thank mr tavares for his commitment, his endeavours and his hard work to finally achieve a result in this dossier. i would also like to thank all the presidencies that have been involved, and the danish presidency that has now brought it to a successful conclusion. many people have worked on this and thank you, mr tavares, for mentioning stefania pasquetti. she and many others at the commission did a lot of work and she was very committed. as you said, she very tragically died unexpectedly a few weeks ago. she would have been very happy today to see that we have finally reached an agreement between the three institutions, with overwhelming support from the european parliament. i would like this to be a tribute to her work. when we proposed the establishment of the programme back in 2009, our aim was to make sure that more refugees in situations of extreme vulnerability could be given more stable lives by resettling them in the european union. we proposed not only to increase refugee resettlement to the eu, but also to use and to pool our resources in a more strategic way. in order to achieve this, increased funding was offered to member states new to resettling refugees. we also had the idea of annual selection of resettlement priorities. this was intended to widen the scope of refugees that could be resettled under the european refugee fund. in this way more people can be given the possibility to have a life in dignity and safety, offering them a future in which they can live rather than merely survive. i am so proud and happy that today we have managed to overcome all the differences in a spirit of good compromise and to see our work on this file completed. today’s legislation runs to the end of 2013, but the new asylum and migration fund that we have proposed for the coming financial perspective, 2014 to 2020, includes a reinforced and ambitious resettlement component. furthermore, in line with the suggestions made by the european parliament, we are working this year on the implementation of a pilot project on resettlement in emergency situations which allows for even more resettlement to take place in the european union. as you know, we had to overcome a last-minute snag in the legislative negotiations on the legal basis for the proposal, so i would like to read out a specific declaration on this issue by the commission: ‘the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of the proposal, supports the final text; however, it notes that this is without prejudice to its right of initiative with regard to the choice of legal bases, in particular in reference to the future use of article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.’ by establishing this programme, we are sending a very strong signal to the international community that the european union recognises the need for more resettlement of refugees and of our commitment to give shelter and protection and a durable solution for refugees. thank you all for your work on this; i am looking forward to a very strong endorsement in the vote tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr tavares, for all the work he has done over the last two years. i thank the commissioner for what she has said to us today and it is a pleasure for all of us that after much discussion here in the house we are now finalising the effort and negotiation on this refugee resettlement programme. i too would like to remind you that it is important to give more incentives to the member states to get involved in the programme, and it is very important to increase europe's contribution to meeting the needs of all those people who, globally, number more than some 200 000 a year and who need a new home for reasons which we all understand. but let me make the following observations: it is not a matter of honour for any of us that, while all these events took place in north africa, we have been so slow to take our final decisions for reasons which we all know. it is also not a compliment that this whole negotiation, which lasted over two years, has finally resulted in a programme that will be implemented for one year only, only for 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the next programme, in the next financial period, let us take advantage of this year, let us evaluate it quickly, let us see the positives and the negatives, so as to create the basis, the pillar for our further effort. i listened very carefully to the commissioner's statement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's not delay this negotiation. we all supported this programme from the start. we have also all said that this programme should be combined with the internal resettlement programme in europe, the 'reallocation programme', and that is something we are expecting and we all know that we are working on this at the moment. so congratulations again, and let us hope that this implementation of the programme next year will be the starting point for much more important achievements by europe in this field in the years ahead.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 29 march 2012, at 11.30.
the next item is the report by mr derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2013 - section i - parliament (2012/2006 ((bud)) (a7-0062/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 29 march 2012, at 11.30.
the next item is the report by mr sebastian valentin bodu, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the corporate governance framework for european enterprises (2011/2181 (ini)) (a7-0051/2012).
mr president, a few days ago some people were celebrating the salvation of greece and the eurozone. the troika which monitors greece - yes, it does - when it came to parliament, however, it appeared cautious about the future of the country, it predicted a storm for the salaries and pensions of citizens and hinted that the wage levels should reach 150 to 200 euros a month, "butter on the left's bread". vague reports of growth and no measures to support the grieving small and medium-sized enterprises in greece, resulting in 68,000 lockdowns in 2011 and unemployment of over one million people. obviously, the analytical approach overlooks the breakdown of the social fabric in the country and the poverty that the economic recipe has brought. the turmoil in society in greece and in other countries of the south facing the same problems is of no interest to anyone in this union, unfortunately. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on this matter. we have failed to manage the crisis, mr president. it is important to understand that the crisis is not limited to a few countries and must therefore be treated as a global and european phenomenon.
mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the presence of the president of the european investment bank in our plenary, and also to welcome the bank's initiatives and work in dealing with the urgent circumstances of the crisis, its continuing efforts to promote social and economic cohesion, and also the stabilization and development of our neighbourhood. i would like to focus on the need for the resources of the european investment bank to be complementary to those of the structural funds. the bank's activities are also designed to help smes to develop their business models and to provide them with the necessary financial support. i believe that our efforts must be focused on the one hand on the areas which give the european union comparative advantages, such as the knowledge economy, and i welcome the efforts you have already made in this direction, and on the other hand on the countries particularly affected by the crisis. i would like to congratulate the commission on the work it has done in this area and on the work it has done in the past. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the smes in the community, including the creation of a european company to help them to compete in the world market. i would like to ask what your plans are and what measures have already been planned to deal with the economic and social crisis in greece and to restart the economy, which we so badly need.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. the european investment bank is one of the instruments to support the real economy. in the midst of the financial crisis, the bank is playing an important role in helping to revitalise the european economy and support growth and job creation. i would therefore like to highlight the achievements of the european investment bank in 2010, such as the increase in its lending to support european economic support measures. i would also like to express my support for the position expressed in the report that support for small and mediumsized enterprises in the eu should be one of the main priorities of the activities of the european investment bank, since small and mediumsized enterprises represent the 'engine' of the european economy and create jobs. finally, i would like to stress the need to take appropriate measures to ensure that the bank maintains its excellent credit rating (a-a-c) and is subject to the same prudential supervision rules as all credit institutions. the bank's capital needs are therefore not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but also to the capital needs of the bank.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs vălean on her excellent report. the report is based on the principle that every person with the nationality of a member state of the european union is also a european citizen. she's all right. citizenship of the european union is therefore complementary to, but not a substitute for, national citizenship. this is why the rights of citizens are at the heart of the report and the right to apply to the ombudsman, the right to submit legislative proposals on the initiative of citizens, and the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal and european elections are inalienable rights of citizens. as a member of the committee on petitions, i would like to inform you that we receive a great many reports from european citizens about the obstacles they face in exercising their rights. it is therefore important that the rights of european citizens are clearly enshrined and described in the union's legal provisions and implemented in such a way that citizens have confidence in the union. the committee on petitions is trying to remedy these problems by putting citizens at the centre of its activities. the european union is a global community of citizens, citizens of europe, citizens of the world, citizens of the european union. i hope that we will be able to apply this principle.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr taylor's report because i believe that his proposals help to improve the service to passengers and to safeguard their rights. i consider the proposal to provide equal opportunities for persons with reduced mobility (pmo) and the existence of enforcement bodies (eo) responsible for handling complaints from passengers and helping to serve them to be important.
in writing. the financial crisis we are in has shown the dangers of derivatives and hedging contracts, as their use for purely speculative purposes has contributed to its outbreak. i voted against the report on derivatives because, although it provides for some measures which improve market structures to a certain extent and limit some risks, it does not really address the problem. it does not prohibit the use of derivatives or the involvement of so-called 'intermediaries'. no matter how many adjustments we make and how much we tighten up the surveillance, the source of the problem remains because we are talking about causes and not causes. in times of crisis, the role of the banking system becomes particularly crucial, as it can mitigate the consequences of the crisis as long as it prioritises the real needs of society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire.
in writing. the jrc opposes the report and the commission's proposal to postpone for two more years, until 30 april 2014, the implementation of the directive on minimum health and safety requirements for workers against the risks associated with electromagnetic fields. even these inadequate measures to protect workers from exposure to electromagnetic fields are seen by the capitalists as an obstacle to the unfair exploitation of the workforce. the eu and the european parliament have therefore been quick to meet their demands, to refer the implementation of the health protection measures to the railways. the real character of the eu is revealed here as an imperialist association of monopolies to ensure their profitability and to shield their power. the protection of workers' health and life is a cost to the eu, to the political representatives of capital in the european parliament and to the civil governments of the member states, and has no value whatsoever in the face of the profits, the 'competitiveness' of the enterprises, which are built with the blood and life of the working class. the overthrow of capitalist barbarity, the demolition of the european union's edifice and the power of the monopolies by the working class and its allies is the greatest debt in its life and future.
in writing. the report seeks to strengthen administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties in order to tackle fraud problems. the emcs is already operational and the new regulation merely provides for a permanent obligation on the member states and the commission to ensure the maintenance of the emcs and its associated services. i voted against because although checking the movement of excise goods more rapidly and more completely through the automated system is a step towards tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance, i believe that it is not sufficient and does not solve the problem of tax evasion and tax avoidance. it is also based on the reversal of the union's policy on socially unfair indirect taxes on citizens, at the same time as direct taxes on all sources of wealth are being reduced. i therefore believe that it is necessary to put the problem on its proper footing and to implement a socially fair tax policy, with a development and redistributive role capable of tackling the serious problem of tax competition, effective control, taxation of offshore companies and the abolition of tax havens in the union.
in writing. the report on the european democracy fund constitutes an unprecedented escalation of the eu's war against popular and anti-imperialist movements and movements fighting to overthrow the power of monopolies it is the most vulgar and reactionary of all designs, since the purpose of the edf is to secretly finance, on the model of the notorious american equivalent, eu agents, counter-revolutionary parties and organizations, various agencies for their action in periods of upsurge of movements and popular uprisings, especially in times of great upheaval. the aim of the eu and the bourgeois governments of the member states is to manipulate the movements so that they can install "new" political forces, parties and leaders totally subordinate to the eu and the interests it serves. the edf is established to provide support and funding to a wide group of 'beneficiaries': all kinds of agents, parties and organisations linked to the eu and member state governments, secret and security services, ngos which are the long arm of imperialism, that is to say the whole spectrum of agents of imperialism. the eec has nothing to do with democracy and popular freedoms, but is created precisely to restrict and crush them. it is a tool for imposing the dictatorship of the monopolies, for undermining and manipulating popular movements, for imperialist domination and for imposing the dictatorship of the capitalist class.
in writing. i voted against the report on the establishment of a 'european democracy fund' because it is an attempt to create another intervention mechanism to promote the interests of the european union. its main objective will be to provide the eu with ways to support political parties, civil society and pro-democracy activists in countries under authoritarian regimes or in transition. in my view, as in that of the left group, this is a mechanism designed to influence directly political developments in third countries, but in the interests of interests which are different from the real interests of the people. moreover, this mechanism will be financed not only by the eu and the member states but also by private actors and other states. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market.
in writing. the idea and need for a european democracy fund arose in the wake of the escalation of violence in parts of north africa and the middle east. the european union, which has strong democratic values, must look for ways and practical measures, beyond the political, to strengthen healthy democratic forces in the countries of the southern mediterranean. the establishment and the precise actions of the fund are at an early stage, but the european parliament wants to see it set up as soon as possible, a position which i support by voting in favour of the report. the establishment of a semi-autonomous body such as this fund could support democratic processes around the world and where necessary in a way that is free from bureaucratic obstacles and sufficiently autonomous from eu diplomacy or the european commission.
in writing. it is a fact that the promotion of democracy in third countries is a key commitment of the european union. as the largest provider of humanitarian and development aid in the world, the eu can thus apply pressure on countries which flagrantly violate international human rights conventions and democratic institutions. i am in favour of the creation of such a fund, but i think that the european union should be very careful about who it funds through this fund, because interfering in the internal affairs of third countries requires very delicate handling.
in writing. the kke voted against the european parliament resolution because it is intended as a powerful lever for pressure and blackmail against the serbian people, an important step towards serbia's integration into nato, the eu and other imperialist organisations and the final secession of kosovo with very serious consequences for the borders, minorities and peace in the balkans and the wider region. it is characteristic that serbia, which has no fleet, will participate in the eu fleet off the coast of somalia. the resolution welcomes the savage capitalist restructuring being promoted by the serbian bourgeois government in power thanks to imperialist intervention, criminal war and the brutal eu-us-nato blackmail against the serbian people. it cynically confirms that the conditions for the start of the eu accession process for serbia were the submission of the serbian people, the handing over of the last defendants to the nato "court" and the embellishment of the dirty eurasian war under the cloak of "reconciliation with neighbours". the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the council also reaffirms that the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the secession of kosovo as a eurasian protectorate was the second condition for eu accession.
in writing. after long reforms and painful internal changes, the efforts of the neighbouring country are finally being recognised and the way is being opened up for serbia's european perspective. greece has been an advocate of eu enlargement to the western balkan countries, and particularly to serbia, from the outset. unfortunately, today an amendment was incorporated into the final text with a reference to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) under the term 'macedonia'. we consider it unacceptable that an official text of a european organization contains a name of a candidate country which is not internationally recognised. the european parliament has also expressed its support for the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and the fight against fraud. on the joint initiative of the leaders of the new democracy and pasok parliamentary groups, a protest has already been sent to the president of the ep, asking him to have automatic corrections of parliament's texts in cases where there are references to unrecognised country names in ep reports and resolutions.
in writing. the pasok parliamentary group voted in favour of the report on serbia's european path, although the final text of the report incorporated a reference to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) under the term 'macedonia'. greece, as is well known, has been from the beginning and remains in favour of the accession of all the countries of the western balkans, and in particular of serbia, provided that the copenhagen criteria are fully met. after long reforms and painful internal changes, the country's efforts are finally being recognised and the way is being opened for serbia's european perspective, so it would be unfair to vote against the report for that reason alone. greece has historically been and remains a strong supporter of its european path. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore in favour of the establishment of a european union with a single currency, and we are in favour of the establishment of a european monetary system with a single currency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. the eib is today one of the most important european institutions for supporting the real economy and development. it finances major infrastructure projects which could not otherwise be carried out. many of these also concern greece. the approval of this report also brings some important elements for the eib's 2010 activity: total lending this year reached €72 billion (of which €63 billion within the eu), the €30 billion target of the sme loan schedule signed and the €61 billion european recovery support package completed. the european parliament makes it clear that it should be encouraged to continue its strong action and to establish it as a 'european bank' which will play a leading role in the recovery of the european economy and, in particular, in the regions which need it most.
in writing. the european investment bank is one of the european union's major institutions, as its activities have contributed to the achievement of the union's objectives for more than 50 years. eib financing activities, including loans for structural programmes (spps) and support for european smes, are an important factor in supporting the real economy. in addition, the eib's contribution to furthering the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and its contribution to climate projects is noteworthy. i therefore consider it important to support mrs ivanova's report.
in writing. in the difficult economic climate europe is experiencing, there is a great need for the european investment bank to continue the work for which it was set up. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the report rightly points to the worrying divergence between european economies in terms of competitiveness and innovation. i voted in favour of the ivanova report, but i would like to stress that the eib must focus on more favourable lending and economic reconstruction in the member states most affected by the debt crisis, such as my own country, portugal and ireland, and in the countries of the southern mediterranean, such as greece, greece and portugal. these countries need to become competitive again.
in writing. i voted in favour of the valean report because i consider its report on behalf of the committee on petitions to be very important. particularly at a time when european institutions are being challenged and citizens of the european union are showing great distrust of its effectiveness, it is important that such a report shows that the voice and concerns of european citizens are being heard. the eu must prove that the free movement of persons is not a theoretical right and i am very pleased that the report also tackles specific cases of violations (rights of family members in britain, recognition of citizens' qualifications in other countries, etc.) by calling for them to be addressed immediately.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, i would like to congratulate mr richard howitt on his comprehensive and very detailed report, and the high representative, baroness ashton, on her unwavering commitment to human rights. it is now necessary to take up the messages of the times and to make our own self-criticism. to show that we've learned from our mistakes. unfortunately, the west and the member states of the european union have for years supported, actively or passively, the dictatorial regimes in north africa in the name of a false stability. it is now clear, and i think we all understand, that there can be no long-term stability without respect for human rights and democracy. if we really want the european union to be a credible actor on the international stage, we must finally avoid double standards and double standards in the field of human rights. any assistance to third countries must be accompanied by effective pressure for practical improvements in this area. in this context, the human rights clause in trade agreements concluded by the union with third countries is an important tool that should be appropriately exploited and, in general, it should be clear that the logic of 'more for more' implies 'less for less'. it is also important that member states speak with one voice in the united nations and other important international forums. we therefore welcome the adoption of the general guidelines on statements by the european union in international fora. we reiterate, however, our call for regular consultations between the ambassadors of the member states of the union in order to achieve better coordination in the joint effort to promote and defend human rights. two end points: first of all, the need to defend religious freedom is self-evident. but we must fight for the freedom of all religious groups, not just the christian ones, as some groups in this parliament are calling for. finally, i want to raise the issue of women's reproductive rights. the right to a body for every woman is a profound human right. right to dignity and freedom. for all of us who believe freedom is an inalienable right, every woman's right to her own body is central.
mr president, on the occasion of today's world day for disarmament, we should learn from the mistakes made by greece in these matters. from 1974 to 2011, greece spent about $218 billion on defense and military programs. in fact, in the period 2001-2011, and despite the decrease in its defense equipment spending in 2011 due to budgetary adjustment, greece was the fifth largest importer of military equipment in the world, with $10.3 billion, after china, india, south korea and the united arab emirates. however, in the five-year period 2007-2011 greece was the largest recipient of german and the second largest recipient of french armament programmes. we must certainly learn from our mistakes, because those who have benefited from the armaments programmes are mainly the large arms industries, but also members of the greek administration and greek politicians who were responsible for the selection of the various armaments programmes. the arrest of the former greek defence minister, mr tzohatzopoulos, is the culmination of all this.
member of the commission. − i should briefly respond to the question regarding youth. if the vice-president wants to comment on the broader questions of growth and the reforms, he should do so. of course the action team has to focus on a particular group, namely young people. this is a critical question, especially in the south of italy. there are huge imbalances inside the country, as you probably know very well. i hope this will produce very practical, concrete results in the coming year. i think the vice-president wants to address the issue of growth and the reforms in a broader context.
vice-president of the commission. − indeed, in the past few months, the italian government has shown very strong determination and i must say an impressive commitment to take up the twin challenge of fiscal consolidation and job-boosting reforms. as regards fiscal consolidation, the effort made, in fact since 2010, is significant and has helped restore confidence in financial markets, not least thanks to the recent packages of fiscal consolidation that have been adopted by the government and supported by the parliament in italy. at the same time, the sustainability of italy’s public finances and of course the development of its employment depends on its growth prospects, especially in the context of recession, as is the case today. the policy response to tackling the long-standing structural weaknesses and boosting the growth potential in italy has been determined so far, and it is very comprehensive and wide-ranging. the rigorous implementation of the measures that have been adopted so far, especially to open up competition in product and services markets, to improve the business environment and to make better use of structural funds for investment, will be crucial in delivering their full benefits. the next crucial step is the adoption by parliament of the long-awaited reform of the labour market, which is necessary in the light of the important challenges of the italian labour market. as recommended by the council at its recent meeting, italy should embrace reforms that tackle the segmentation of the labour market by reviewing its employment protection legislation and revising the unemployment benefits system, as well as enhancing the system of active labour market policies. these reforms are crucial, not least because of the unacceptable level of youth unemployment in italy. the reform recently adopted by the government following consultations with the social partners has the ambition to comprehensively address the rigidities and asymmetries of the labour market, while moving towards a more integrated unemployment benefit scheme. this should make it possible to find a better balance between flexibility of entry and exit from the labour market and should give rise to a more dynamic and cohesive labour market.
vice-president of the commission. − i will leave my philosophical and religious beliefs out of this debate, even though i have to say that in my studies of macroeconomics the books of john maynard keynes figured very strongly. they certainly have plenty of lessons for all of us about what went wrong in the 1930s and what we should avoid in the 21st century. as regards spain – which was the specific point you made – you are correct when you say that spain faces formidable challenges, especially concerning youth unemployment following the end of the credit boom and the bursting of the real estate bubble. this adjustment started in the wake of the crisis with a rapid downsizing of the construction sector, a decrease in the external deficit and some improvement in cost competitiveness. unfortunately, i cannot agree with you when you say that last year in spain everything was done perfectly, because there was a major fiscal slippage of over 2.5%, from 6 to 8.5%, which, in more numerical, concrete terms, is equivalent to a slippage of around eur 25 billion. this slippage came mainly from the regional governments. therefore it is essential for spain, as part of its reform efforts, to take concrete action to ensure better sustainability of the autonomous regions’ public finances. i have recommended to the spanish government that they start applying the new fiscal stability law on the autonomous regions without any delay, because that is clearly an area which creates uncertainty and reduces the credibility of public finances in spain.
vice-president of the commission. − firstly, on the subject of spain: it is indeed essential that the fiscal policy stance of spain, as recommended by the commission and the eurogroup, strikes the right balance between the necessary consolidation of public finances and concerns about growth in the country. we are currently reviewing the economic and fiscal policy figures and stance of the whole euro area. we will present our spring forecast on 11 may and on that basis will make proposals for the economic and fiscal policy stance of the whole euro area and individual countries. i can see that we need to have further differentiation among the countries, depending on the business cycle they are in and on the economic and growth conditions they are experiencing, but it is too early to say today because we do not yet have the figures from eurostat upon which we will base the spring forecast that we will present in may. as regards greece, i would suggest that you attend the afternoon session at 3 p.m. when president barroso will speak about greece. we will adopt today, in our college meeting before 3 p.m., a communication on promoting growth and jobs in greece, which is a very important document outlining ways and means in all policy areas and how we can enhance growth and job creation in greece on the basis of the eu-imf programme. i would like to make one point concerning growth which is important because i know, mrs berès, that you are very concerned about this – as all of you and all of us are. i should like, if i may, to use my extra minute in this context because to my mind it is quite important. this point refers to the possibilities of reinforcing the capital base of the european investment bank. with the eib, the eu has a very powerful institution and instrument of its own for supporting growth and employment, not least in troubled times. the eib, with a lending capacity several times the size of the world bank, has been playing a key role in tackling the crisis since 2008, but it is reaching the limits of what it can do with its current capital base. to allow the eib to do more for growth and jobs, its capital needs to be addressed and its capital base needs to be increased. in our view this should be done by its shareholders, in other words by the eu member states. for instance, a capital increase of eur 10 billion would allow the eib to lend approximately eur 60 billion, which in turn would attract other financing sources for a total investment of eur 180 billion for new projects of infrastructure, innovation and so on. in addition to this, the commission and the eib are currently looking at possible options for using the eu budget to leverage the eib group financing capacity through risk-sharing schemes, building on schemes already developed for research and innovation with project bonds for infrastructure as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises with the help of the structural funds. so we are doing our part to look for innovative solutions to reinforce the lending capacity of the european investment bank. however, let me send a clear and constructive message to all eu member states, which i trust parliament can support. for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation we need more european cross-border and community investment in infrastructure, energy and transport and in innovation, research and communications, and i therefore call on the eu member states to provide, without any delay, additional capital to the european investment bank. i ask for your support for this very important objective.
member of the commission. − the enforcement directive recognises the importance of national control measures and inspections in guaranteeing applicable working conditions for posted workers. however, the freedom to provide services must also be respected. the court of justice decided that certain national control measures were proportionate in view of companies’ freedom to provide services, while others were not. in order to provide for legal certainty, the enforcement directive indicates clearly which control measures are proportionate and justified. new european electronic tools will make cooperation between member states’ enforcement bodies more rapid and efficient. this will facilitate and improve controls. i therefore believe that the provision to which you refer is in line with the agreed objective of this exercise, namely improving the interpretation and the implementation of the existing directive without reversing court of justice case law.
member of the commission. − i believe that the joint and several liability does not interfere with the question of collective agreements. this is about how various companies engage in cooperation by means of subcontracting. it is actually a way to guarantee that what is involved in various labour contracts will be delivered, even if the economic activity takes place in the form of posting in a member state other than the home of the given company.
i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, commissioner, and it is indeed very important that we support the mobility of workers which is aimed at improving skills, especially for young people. it is a different reality, however, and a different reality that forces young people in some countries with significant problems to leave their country because their country offers no opportunity to work, to develop their lives. you said that mr barosso would make an announcement at noon. but the president of the commission also made an announcement last december on opportunities for young people. you also announced action groups for young people. but we don't see any added value at this time - the last four, five months that these announcements have been made. what is the added value, commissioners, what is your advice to young people who are looking for prospects and hope? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. five and a half million are unemployed throughout europe. you know better than i do.
member of the commission. − emigration from the countries which felt the impact of the financial crisis is of course a problem, especially if this migration leads to other continents, because we very often find – in the case of greece, and also ireland and portugal – that people prefer to go other continents, despite the geographical proximity of many vacancies in the countries in the more dynamic part of europe. that is why our efforts, including in the forthcoming employment package, are to make the european labour market more transparent and the jobs and vacancies that exist in europe more accessible. this would also be done by developing the eures programme, which helps with finding and understanding what opportunities exist in the european labour market. there are practical developments. the action teams went to athens as well as to the other seven capitals. they came back with concrete findings. we had an opportunity in brussels to hold discussions with prime minister papademos. i also went to athens at the end of march and held discussions with several members of the government. for example, there are very practical opportunities now to develop not just training and apprenticeships but also a new programme for start-ups, which i discussed with minister diamantopoulou, and also to develop the social economy, which i discussed with minister koutroumanis. these are just examples of how refocusing the use of the structural funds – the esf in particular but not only the esf – can very directly, concretely and urgently help the young people who are now unemployed or who just want to find new opportunities inside greece.
the only point i would like to make, mr president, commissioner, is this, because you have been very specific in what you have said. i would remind you, however, that in greece we are in an election period, we have elections in twenty days, and everyone is asking the question: why have we not applied these tools that you have just described to us in the last two or two and a half years?
member of the commission. − very serious work has been undertaken in the recent period. greece has been lagging behind with the implementation of the structural funds, and a lot of progress has been made over the last year regarding the social fund, for example, not least because of the contribution of the task force which the commission sent to greece. i agree with you that this could have helped earlier. there was only about a 12% or 13% implementation rate up to next june and now it is about double that. so a lot of progress has been made, but of course we cannot change the situation overnight.
written declaration no 0047/2011 on fish as a common good has been signed by more members than the simple majority of the house. it will then be circulated, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, to the addressees and published in the documents adopted at the meeting, the names of the signatories being published in the minutes.
the written declaration no 0052/2011 on children with down syndrome has been signed by more members than the simple majority of the house. it will then be circulated, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at this part-session, and the names of the signatories will be published in the minutes.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
we're not going back to that. - before the vote on paragraph 112:
in writing. the technical report on the coordination of social security systems, which i voted in favour of, comes at a time when the social benefits and insurance systems of many member states - and greece in particular - are under pressure. although this report mainly deals with the procedure and practical application of the provisions of the pre-existing 2004 regulation, it nevertheless contains important amendments of greek interest, such as the regulations concerning the safety and work of border workers and civil aviation workers, while at the same time contributing positively to the creation of a more accurate, fairer and more effective insurance plan for accidents at work.
in writing. the negative outcome of the irish referendum on ratification of the lisbon treaty in june 2008 brought to light the concerns of the irish people on a number of issues that were not addressed or adequately enshrined in the new european treaty. as unanimity is undoubtedly required for the entry into force of any new treaty, the european council's decision to examine proposed amendments to subsequent treaties in the form of introducing clarifications to them - to include references requested by the irish side, such as the right to life, family, taxation, security and defence - is a political compromise welcomed by the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the own-initiative report refers to areas which, because of their specific characteristics (physical and structural), constitute a specific group falling under article 349 tfeu and where it is necessary to diversify the applicable eu rules and programmes by following a territorial, rather than strictly technical, approach. in this context, the eu 2020 strategy should take account of these specificities, with a focus on cohesion policy as a key driver for stimulating small-scale economies. at the same time, european policies in the eu's outermost regions need to be adapted to better deliver on the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion and to contribute to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the present resolution, which i voted in favour of, is moving in that direction, taking account of the above characteristics.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, but i differed on certain points. in particular, i was in favour of including phrases which reinforce the text and the eu's commitment to human rights, such as the reference to the need to promote hygiene and health education programmes in third countries and the reinforcement of european humanitarian aid programmes relating to gender equality and child protection. i also supported the reference to the european parliament's disappointment at the behaviour of certain member states and their reluctance to adopt the european convention on human rights.
mr president, for some time the policy promoted by the commission through the troika has been one of unilateral austerity. i am glad that we are discussing employment and growth today, but there has already been a lot of damage done and the commission must admit that it has made very big mistakes and so has the greek government. what are the facts at this point? we know that unemployment at the level of the working population has exceeded 21%, over a million million people are unemployed. two million people, 20% of the total population, are on the verge of survival and over 50% of young people are now unemployed for a very long time. so we must look again at the policies implemented in greece to make them consistent with our european values. we must not just talk, make promises and words, but we must have goals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, specific goals and timelines. we cannot have unilateral austerity and i would say that the problem must be tackled in a fair, balanced way and with a change in the economy and the administration.
mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission, mr barosso, for the communication in order to get greece back to growth and create jobs. my country has so far made important strides with the help of its partners. the deficit has been drastically reduced and the situation is stabilising. the structural changes are progressing. it is obvious that public sector spending must be reduced even further to curb excessive indirect and direct taxation in order to start some growth. mr president, we greek members of the european people's party, members of the new democracy, have pointed out in good time the danger of unilateral austerity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today everyone accepts this truth. some in this room are calling for greece to leave the eurozone. i'm so sorry about that. the greek people want to remain closely linked to europe and the euro. we believe that only together can we tackle a crisis that has become systemic. the same applies to all countries in crisis. mr president, what we have built together must be maintained and secured by our common work. we must all work to combat unemployment and to bring about a new era of prosperity. no country can do it alone. the president of the commission knows this better than any of us. i would point out, mr president, that the comments made by the liberal group chairman, mr verhofstadt, do not exactly correspond to what he said: the financing he spoke about had been done in previous years and parliament simply arranged the repayment to the banks. i do not think that the greek parties are at this difficult moment prepared to spend money while the people suffer from the sacrifices they make.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, it is true that the commission has never claimed that the crisis is behind us, but it is also true that we have had three parallel crises in the course of the last few years, a budgetary, an economic and a social crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this has led to a targeting of europe and a growing distrust of european citizens, and we should be concerned that wherever elections are held - and i am not referring to greece, mr president, i am referring to france - europe is at the centre of the electoral campaign, not in a positive way but in a negative way. greece, mr president, has made great strides in fiscal consolidation in extremely difficult circumstances, with only one party, the socialist party, bearing until a few months ago the full burden and the full costs, political and social, of managing the crisis. but the main burden is on the greek people who will be voting in three weeks' time, and i would ask you, mr vice-president of the european commission, on the basis of the letters sent by mr venizelos and mr papademos to the commission, to tell us what concrete measures and policies you can take to help tackle unemployment, especially youth unemployment, which is approaching 50%, to ensure financing for small and mediumsized enterprises that are suffocating and to unblock the major projects that are crucial for growth and job creation.
mr president, i am focusing on greece. the member states have spent enormous sums. the greeks have made heavy sacrifices. but the objectives were not met. why would you do that? because the adjustment fell mainly, not on the state-sponsored client system, but on productive greece and the weakest: businesses, employees, low-pensioners. overtaxation and a complete lack of financing are now leading to the closure of competitive greek export enterprises. the state is deferring €6 billion in private sector debt. the two ruling parties are making pre-election recruitments and have generously settled, by law, their huge debts to the banks. the commission does not seem to be proposing anything significantly new, such as the 2020 plan recently presented by alde. a plan for more private investment, liquidity and jobs. but apart from the incorrigible, state-sponsored, clientelist system, there is also a positive, productive, creative greece and europe must finally invest in it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would like to ask the vice-president of the commission whether we are experiencing a crisis of the economy or a crisis of economic perception, of economic prescription? the one that has led to the vicious circle: austerity, recession, new austerity measures, new recession. i believe that both the institutional and political leadership of the european union must abandon its institutional and political egoism and change course. i also believe, mr president, and i fully agree with what the president of the commission, mr barosso, said, that together we will succeed, the european union and greece. yes, i believe it deeply, but through a conception, through a plan of a real partnership and not through the logic of a dominant entity over greece.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, we have taken the initiative in holding this debate precisely because we believe that the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance is and must be an integral part of both national and european strategies for overcoming the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax burden is not reduced to a level that is not in line with the objectives of the treaty. it is absurd to pursue the deepening of fiscal policy alone without taking corresponding steps towards convergence and coordination of tax policy, which will increase tax competition between us and worsen the fiscal problems of countries in difficulty. and it is not just the tax competition between us, it is also the flight of capital abroad, to switzerland, but also to other member countries of the european union that still maintain banking secrecy. it is clear that there are national responsibilities for tax evasion, and the same is true of the financial crisis. this has not, however, prevented the council and the commission from adopting stricter rules and policies to deal with the problem.
mr president, i would like to point out and ask the commissioner the following: greece is known to be facing serious budgetary problems; on the other hand, we know that they exist in swiss banks... (the president interrupts)
mr president, tax evasion and corruption cost 1% of europe's gdp, or about 120 billion euros. also, according to a recent study, two-thirds of the member states of europe failed in a recent assessment to score above 5 out of 10 on corruption issues. i mention this to emphasize that this problem of tax evasion is not just a problem of some member states, as some colleagues have often said, it is a european problem and must be dealt with as such. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. of these, about one billion is dedicated to greece, until 2013, in terms of e-government and the reform of public administration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs astrid lulling, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the taxation of energy products and electricity (com (2011) 0169 - c7-0105/2011 - 2011/0092 (cns)) (a7-0052/2012)
i would like to refer to the proposal to abolish the exemptions for the shipping and aviation sectors. as a goal, the reduction of carbon emissions from both sectors is not only legitimate but absolutely necessary. the demand for services in both sectors is estimated to double by 2050, and of course it would be criminal to let carbon emissions increase by the same amount. however, our approach should guarantee the end result. both sectors, and in particular the shipping industry, would be exposed to a very serious risk of 'carbon leakage' if fuel taxes were imposed at eu level by refuelling ships outside the eu and adapting their transport routes. for this reason, in order to be effective, the taxation of marine fuel should be exclusively at world level.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i regard as absolutely positive the proposal to create a risk-sharing financial instrument to support infrastructure projects and productive investment, as mentioned by the rapporteur, mrs hübner. indeed, it is imperative to create conditions for economic growth at a critical juncture, in an economic climate where budget cuts are also significantly affecting greek public investment, while the lack of liquidity and access to finance are also hampering public-private partnerships. critical dimensions of the greek economy have deteriorated, dramatically, despite the unprecedented sacrifices of greek society. i am referring, first of all, to the growth in the unemployment rate, which is now close to 50% for young people. i hope that both the commission and the european investment bank will ensure that the conditions, for example as regards the leverage ratio and the eligible investments, are met in order to make the best possible use of this financial instrument with multiplier benefits for the real economy. finally, in addition to the necessary fiscal consolidation, i believe that a comprehensive plan for a creative development plan and a way out of the vicious circle of austerity and recession is urgently needed.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and chairman of the committee on regional development, mrs hübner, for her methodical work and her excellent report, and also mrs kleva for her very good report. i shall not go into the details of the report, since previous colleagues have analysed them in detail. i would like to stress, however, that with the proposed changes cohesion policy is once again making a major contribution to the recovery of the economy, growth and job creation. tens of thousands of new jobs are expected to be created in greece alone, while at the same time the completion of the greek part of the projects of axis 7, the transeuropean transport network, will be achieved. of course, in order to unblock the large regional development projects that have come to a standstill in the countries affected by the crisis and to make the best possible use of these instruments, the leverage should be at least two or even three times the amount committed from the cohesion policy funds.
mr president, a similar risk-spreading tool is certainly appropriate, provided that it is aimed at shifting the economy in directions that make it more sustainable and more compatible with ecological objectives. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. when there's a big fiscal crisis, car traffic decreases, and many economists argue that these projects are no longer economically viable. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we would therefore like to see this tool used towards a green economy. the commissioner said this morning that the green economy has enormous potential and that it is possible to create 20 million jobs in europe, so why not create similar jobs in greece using such a tool?
mr president, the report we are discussing tonight and the proposal from the european commission is an important, an intelligent response to the attempt to deal with the economic and budgetary crisis, especially for countries that are particularly and severely affected, such as my country, greece. i therefore welcome this proposal in particular as regards this instrument, the risk-sharing instrument, which enables countries to use community resources and to disburse funds from the european investment bank or another body to finance projects carried out with contributions from the different funds and the cohesion fund. it allows the private sector to participate in the production of wealth, in the creation of jobs and, i repeat, this is especially true for countries which are suffering from severe cuts in public investment, such as greece. greece has shown interest in this mechanism, particularly in the concession of motorways, and i believe that this will be a good opportunity to restart the economy, which my country so badly needs in order to get back on a path of recovery and growth.
madam president, let us be clear: the agreement is not perfect and the arguments, and especially the reservations, that have been voiced today are certainly well founded. but the question is, what's the alternative? how do we ensure the rights and security of european citizens in the best possible way, under the present circumstances of course? the answer, i believe, is that with this agreement which we are called upon to vote on today, with all its weaknesses, which we are well aware of. but there is another element i would like to consider. the european parliament is called upon today to vote on an international agreement, and in an international agreement other parameters must also be taken into account, such as what is the future of the european union's cooperation with the united states, what do we want europe's role to be in international developments in the future? the european parliament rightly calls for a more substantial role in the negotiation of the union's international treaties and we must have that role as the european parliament in the future. but we must show that we as a european parliament are responsible and know how to meet those responsibilities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, supporting the compromise reached with the council after the failure of the commission's two previous proposals. the agreement provides for the strengthening of synergies between the union's lending programmes and funds in the member states receiving assistance from the union or from the international monetary fund at the time of entry into force of the amendment, an important point for greece. this measure is directly relevant to our country, as it facilitates the collection of the necessary private financing for the implementation of infrastructure projects and productive investments which can only be partly financed by public funds. in this way, major projects such as motorways can once again be started and completed.
in writing. this directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which i voted in favour of, establishes certain common rules for the calculation of the tax base applicable to companies operating in the european union. the cif value is calculated according to a specific mathematical formula which includes the sales, labour and assets of each company. the directive, which is essentially technical, does not affect the rates of taxation which, under the treaty, are a matter for the member states. it nevertheless attempts to propose a common optional framework for businesses. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the view that the introduction of the cohesion fund contributes to the completion of the european internal market and thus to the stability of the euro area.
in writing. the revised proposal for a directive modifies the structure of energy taxation so as to support the objective of an economy less dependent on and more reliant on coal and more on alternative energy sources. the report, which i voted in favour of, is positive for countries that are turning to solar energy and therefore offers greece an additional incentive to turn to new forms of energy and at the same time economic opportunities that will help the country to get out of its difficult economic situation. for example, according to the commission's proposal, energy taxes are divided into two parts. the first will be on co2 emissions and the second on energy content. in both cases, greece, a country rich in solar and wind energy, has a clear comparative advantage which it can immediately exploit and secure through low taxation and high competitiveness to its own benefit and, above all, to that of its citizens.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. members of the house! i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. there is no doubt that greece is facing difficult challenges in the area of immigration and it is vital that we support greece in restoring its capacity to deal with immigration. in the council we have been discussing the implementation of the greek national action plan on asylum and migration and border control, most recently at the justice and home affairs council on 8 march this year. the commission and greece noted that some progress had been made, for example in the practical processing of asylum applications. however, it is also clear that there are still major challenges in implementation. this applies, inter alia, to ensuring sufficient staff to deal with cases and to setting up the necessary number of reception centres. it is essential that all resources are used to strengthen the implementation of the greek action plan this means both a major effort on greece's part and a well-coordinated eu effort to assist greece. the involvement of eu agencies such as the european asylum support office, frontex and member states in a position to contribute is necessary. the un high commissioner for refugees also plays an important role in this. this applies to financial resources, expertise and other practical assistance. in this context, it is positive that, as indicated, the establishment of new reception centres in the evros region is planned. i will now turn the floor to the commission, which can tell us more about greece in the field of migration. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that we in the council have discussed how we can show solidarity with member states that are experiencing particularly high pressure on their migration systems. on 8 march, the council therefore adopted a set of council conclusions on a common framework for real and practical solidarity for member states whose asylum systems are under particular pressure as a result of mixed migration flows. the central element of this solidarity framework is the idea of an early warning and preparedness mechanism in the dublin regulation. this mechanism is now included in the amendment to the dublin regulation which we have just sent to the european parliament with a view to opening the trilogue negotiations. this mechanism provides us with a basis for anticipating situations such as the one we are seeing in greece. at the same time, we have the tools to assist the country concerned should the situation arise. the council agrees on the value of strengthening schengen cooperation and external border control. the council also agreed to strengthen both the role of eu agencies and cooperation with third countries, and to promote efficient and orderly broadcasting. in particular, the agencies are crucial to strengthening solidarity through increased practical cooperation. the presidency has stressed that solidarity is an important principle which must be implemented in the form of practical and real cooperation. with this general approach of solidarity, we will of course continue to focus on the situation in greece and the implementation of the action plan. the council supports the implementation of the action plan and that it is done in a well-coordinated way, and i am glad that the european parliament has raised the issue here today, as the challenges facing greece are also the challenges facing the eu in this respect. a reform of greece's asylum and migration system and well-managed border controls is important not only for the eu and for greece, but also for migrants, asylum seekers and refugees.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the parliament for the opportunity once again to discuss this very important issue concerning migration management shortcomings in greece, which is linked with the ongoing discussions on the common european asylum system and also concerns the fundamental rights of individuals. the commission has been continuously supporting greece’s efforts to reform its asylum and migration policies. as was mentioned by the minister, greece developed an action plan on migration management and asylum reform, and progress has been achieved in a number of areas there. two new services have been established – one for the examination of applications and one for initial reception. these are important steps. last year the european asylum support office (easo) deployed asylum support teams in greece. these teams provide advice on reception conditions in the evros area, which is the one that is the most problematic. these activities will continue this year and will be further intensified. we have also conducted technical missions in greece, including the task force for greece, where the unhcr, the iom, frontex and the easo are all involved, in order to ensure a holistic approach. we continue to make great efforts to promote stronger engagement by the turkish authorities in preventing the irregular migratory flows from transiting through turkish territory towards the eu’s borders. so there has been progress, but much more needs to be done. the humanitarian situation in evros is not acceptable. the conditions in which migrant and asylum seekers are kept are particularly worrying. progress needs to be immediate and sustainable. more efforts are needed from the greek authorities in this respect. greece should trigger emergency mechanisms to provide immediate humanitarian relief to the migrants crossing the border area. they can use eu funding to do this and to renovate existing facilities and temporarily increase capacity by renting hostels for vulnerable groups, as well as deploying habitable containers within the security perimeters in the region. the commission has on many occasions reminded the greek authorities that failing to take urgent measures could lead to significant legal consequences, but of course, on a daily basis, there are also very serious humanitarian consequences. we are there to help, as are the member states’ numerous organisations and institutions, but greece itself has the responsibility to act in accordance with international and union law. the commission will continue to provide strategic and targeted support for greece’s efforts to reform its system. this involves the provision of additional financial assistance and emergency support but also expertise on the ground, in close collaboration with the national authorities, the agencies, the unhcr and the iom. greece is among the main beneficiaries of the solidarity and management of migration flows programme, with a total amount of eur 309 million allocated so far. however, there is a problem of absorption from the greek side, so very little of this money has been used so far. for immediate needs, we recently granted an additional amount of eur 3.75 million under the european refugee fund to implement emergency measures, and we are concerned about the possibilities for using that money as well. it is crucial to streamline the delivery mechanism at national level, removing constraints and reinforcing management of the funds. support will also be provided by the eu task force on greece established by the commission to assist and maximise the absorption of eu financial assistance and the implementation of the reform package. a dedicated expert was deployed to athens in december 2011 to advise the greek authorities directly involved in the implementation of these funds. i would also like to recall the commission’s recast proposal for the dublin regulation which, like the rest of the asylum package, aims to increase the efficiency of the system and to improve protection of the applicants. we are very grateful to parliament for its strong support for the commission’s proposal and to the presidency for ensuring that they are now ready to enter into a trilogue on these issues and other related issues in the asylum package. recent court rulings again prove that the eu needs a solid and efficient common european asylum system to support the member states and guarantee a fair and effective system of providing international protection to people in need. this is a common goal for the european union and has been so for quite some time. the need for common rules and greater solidarity is now even more pressing. we need high standards and stronger cooperation to make sure asylum seekers are treated equally wherever they apply and that people in need of protection can have access to this protection. with a fair system throughout the european union it is possible for all member states to share the responsibility for this. as part of this effort, the dublin system needs to be complemented with provisions addressing the root causes of crises and ensuring that deficiencies in one system or another in member states are remedied without delay so that they do not affect the entire system and lead to human rights violations. the commission is, and continues to be, involved. i appreciate the support from parliament and the strong engagement by the council and many other organisations, but of course the main responsibility lies with the greek authorities.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, without a doubt, prevention is better than cure. i fully agree with the commissioner on what she said about the individual rights that asylum seekers should have. what he did not mention, and he did not make clear to the audience, is the huge number of people entering greece as illegal immigrants. when turkey has liberalised visas for all the countries of the region and the mediterranean and for 50 euros someone can come from tripoli in libya to istanbul and then drive to the border with greece, you realise that things are different. the people who enter - who are brought in by various traders, literally people - are people whose origin we do not know, whose language we do not know, who are undocumented and, of course, all seeking asylum. so when 300 or 500 people cross the border every day, it's extremely difficult to manage such a large number of people. i therefore agree with commissioner malmström that there is a need for diversification in dublin ii and i am particularly pleased that you too see this and want to strengthen it. so when greece bears the total burden of 90 percent of illegal immigration, you realize that things are getting difficult. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. but the solution to the problem, commissioner, is to oblige turkey to implement the agreement it has with the european union on readmission and to oblige it to implement the agreement it has signed with greece since 1999. i think that there cannot be a candidate country which wants to recognise or not recognise the agreements with europe on its own terms. the european union must be able to take action to prevent this enormous pressure from being exerted on turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are fully committed to the union and to the ideas and values we have defended, commissioner, and we will continue to support and defend ourselves, but we really need substantial support from the union, the council, parliament and you who are properly handling this matter.
question of the day: blue card. madam president, in connection with the remarks of the distinguished member on greece, i would like to ask the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more than 120 000 third country nationals arrive in greece every year, based on frontex arrests and data alone. do you really think that greece can cope with this pressure on its own, when it has a population six times smaller than italy's?
madam president, i would first of all like to thank the commission and commissioner malmström personally for the way she has stood by greece in recent years. i don't want to hide behind my finger. we are facing a problem which is now taking on explosive dimensions. social peace in greece is in danger, there is now a public health issue and, in addition, it is very difficult to explain to a people who are seeing their salaries and pensions drastically cut, how you have to spend money that does not go to help a foreigner. yes, it is a problem of greece and clearly in the past things were not done that should have been done and - believe me - no greek is proud of the images we see of evros, but it is also a serious problem for the whole of the european union, which, fortunately, we all agree on today. let me say, with all my gratitude for the help you are giving my country, that the european union has not done enough towards a real and comprehensive european migration policy that we need. we must be bold and i call on the commission and the council to start immediately the process of changing dublin ii and creating an effective system of solidarity in the management of refugees between member states. we cannot avoid these just because the current situation serves the interests of some member states at an unbearable cost to some other member states such as greece. because one thing is clear: no matter how well greece manages european resources, it is impossible to provide the high level of international protection that we have rightly established in the european union when 90% of the migrants coming to europe are coming through greece. let me close with this remark: greece is, as we know, in an election period. for better or worse, that's reality. the issue of illegal immigration has already become a field of political exploitation, mainly by extremist parties, populism is unfortunately in excess and some people are easily playing on the sensitivities and justified fears of the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question of the day: blue card. madam president, mr druzza, i would like to ask you what percentage of the 309 million euros mentioned earlier by the commissioner on the issue of migrants has been absorbed by greece? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greece has exhausted them? what about the resources available for voluntary repatriation, there are three thousand applications. how many of these have been answered and the available resources allocated and, finally, how many of the asylum applications have been examined and the applicants have been given answers.
answer is "blue card". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask you to address these questions to the government and to the european commission, which will certainly give you all the necessary information.
madam president, greece does indeed have its peculiarities, because greece was a sending country and not a receiving country, and it is close to flammable areas and has a long border which cannot be closed by air. but a humane and organised migration policy can be beneficial for both greeks and migrants, as the experience in germany, belgium, the usa and australia has shown. would these countries be strong without immigrants? we have to ask ourselves. many were the greeks who played a role in the strength of these countries. the passive attitude which leads to xenophobia must therefore be ended, and the extreme voices of ministers, politicians and parties must be isolated, voices which obstruct rather than solve the problem, with proposals for mass deportations, border fences, detention camps, etc., proposals which are not only dangerous but also unfounded. they are a gross violation of human rights, require a great mobilization of the security forces and entail enormous deportation costs for 400,000 people, as some suggest. there are realistic and viable solutions which must be promoted by greece, with solidarity from europe, because the problem is indeed european. the country must take responsibility. the commissioner said that the legal migration routes and the effective use of existing resources - 309 million euros - the creation of first reception centres and separation centres, as well as the creation of conditions for voluntary repatriation, would relieve pressure on greece and break down the circles of illegality. i also wanted to say that if the system is properly interpreted... (the president interrupts)
madam president, i would first of all like to point out, in connection with what has been said before, that we greeks are a welcoming people and have over time proved that we stand by our fellow man - wherever he comes from - respecting his rights. but i must stress, in relation to the reports and complaints made by colleagues, that the family of the man who was murdered a few months ago at 6 a.m. by illegal immigrants when he was taking his pregnant wife to the maternity ward to give birth also has rights. i read yesterday's letter from the french and german interior ministers asking for the possibility of an emergency reintroduction of border controls, whereas in the past heads of state have often referred to the reduction in the number of migrants they wish to accept. in connection with these reports, let me stress the following: when you don't want any more illegal visitors in your house, you don't close the living room door or the kitchen door. you close the front door, secure the main entrance. that's the solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here our home is europe and our main entrance is the external borders of europe. if you ask frontex and any other relevant agency, they will tell you that the main gateway for illegal immigrants to europe - it has already been mentioned - is the border between greece and turkey. we need the solidarity of europe - it has already been said - the resources, the know-how, the manpower to strengthen and guard our borders more effectively. at the same time, however, it is also urgent to demand that turkey finally stop showing such provocative tolerance to the circles and traffickers who take advantage of even the absence of visas at turkey's borders with many of its neighbouring countries and, of course, to take back illegal migrants who are being pushed into europe through its territory. the agreement on readmission should finally be concluded and, as regards those seeking international protection, - as has already been said - we should proceed to a fairer distribution of responsibility for examining their applications, and i am obviously referring to the change in dublin ii. if you tell me that there are similar problems in other member states, i will say that you are wrong. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. in fact, the number is even higher. in your country it is certainly not every day that it is rising in the polls - because we are also in an election period - a far-right party which proposes to put mines - can you hear me? mines! - along our land border with turkey or i do not know if you often hear proposals in your countries to generalise the right of private individuals to bear arms. europe has been dramatically delayed in taking decisions and taking action on the debt crisis in greece. let us not make the same mistake on the issue of illegal immigration.
madam president, the problem of migration in greece must be seen as a humanitarian crisis where we must all come together as the european union to find a single solution. my country receives over 150,000 irregular migrants a year, which is close to 15% of the country's population every year. these people are trying to escape persecution, war and hunger and they are undoubtedly entitled to human and dignified treatment. but greece in crisis cannot manage migration flows of this magnitude on its own, because, as many speakers pointed out, greece receives almost 90% of migrants trying to enter the european union and dublin ii is locking them in. the problems of receiving and holding irregular migrants are of course great, and the asylum procedure, despite improvements, is not as fast as it should be. but it is hypocritical to compare greece with other countries of the union in terms of reception conditions, in terms of the asylum procedure, since the problem is not comparable. the immigration issue in greece will only be resolved if it is dealt with as it really is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for the debate. this is extremely important and i have no doubt we will come back to it. greece needs to do a few urgent things. it needs to continue to work on the action plan to establish proper reception conditions where people can be screened, registered and have their cases tried as quickly as possible. there needs to be humanitarian assistance to those people who are now in the evros region and who are in a very difficult situation, especially children and other vulnerable groups. there needs to be better protection of the border and a system where people can be returned after a proper procedure if they have been found not to be in need of international protection, and they need to reform the administrative systems so that all the money available is put to proper use. there are huge amounts of money available – hundreds of millions of euros – but they need to be used by the greek authorities. i am convinced that a lot of things can be done in order to speed up the procedures and the bureaucracy here. in all these issues there has been progress, but there needs to be more, and in all these issues we will continue to assist greece. we are assisting with money, as i said. the easo is there, willing to help and work hand in hand with the greek authorities and also on further implementation of the action plan. some of you mentioned the staffing, which is also really acute. frontex is there, europol is there to help fight the trafficking some of you mentioned. experts from member states and from the commission are available and imported organisations are there to help: the iom, unhcr, etc. we are also trying to support greece in its efforts to negotiate with turkey so that turkey can take more responsibility. we are trying to assist turkey on administrative reforms and with money so that they can take some responsibility. so progress is being made. we are willing to assist. nobody denies the enormous difficulties that greece is facing today. the economic situation is very difficult. lots of people in greece are suffering today, we are aware of that. we also know that greece, because of its geographical situation – and nothing can change this – is very much open to migratory flows that will then seek to come further into europe. so it is a european problem, and we in the commission and the council will continue to help and will work hand in hand. nobody expects changes to come over a weekend. it will take time, but there needs to be steady progress, and this can only happen in partnership. but the main responsibility to make sure that everything is in place is in the hands of the greek authorities. that has to be clear. so thank you very much for this debate. thank you for your support and understanding on this, and i am sure we will come back to this issue very soon.
president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is extremely important that we discuss the situation in greece in the area of migration so that we can keep our focus on the challenges facing greece in this area. as commissioner malmström has just said, greece has a very big job ahead of it and it is important to keep in mind how we can show real and practical solidarity with greece and other member states experiencing a great deal of migratory pressure. that is why we must of course both assist each other within the eu and ensure national preparedness so that each member state can deal immediately with unexpected migratory pressure, and this must of course be done in full respect of the eu legal and international obligations it imposes on itself. in addition, there is the need to work to avoid crises in a member state's asylum system - it is obvious - and to provide support and a helping hand when the crisis has struck. that is what we are doing and will continue to do in greece, and by means of that support we can help to ensure that greece has as soon as possible an asylum system with both fair and effective asylum treatment and well-functioning reception conditions. we can thus help to ensure the normalisation of dublin cooperation. in conclusion, i would like to thank you for a good debate. it's been interesting hearing the views. it is a subject which deserves to be discussed in depth, because as i said, it is both a major challenge for greece and, in fact, a very major challenge for our european cooperation.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
in writing. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her report. iter is an important project that aims to demonstrate that fusion is an energy source for the future. after long and arduous negotiations with the council and the commission, we reached an agreement on the additional funding for the project for the years 2012 and 2013, which we approved as parliament last december. this agreement is important because the european union was in danger of losing its credibility with the international partners involved in the project. the member states should realise that when they make commitments they must honour them, especially when it comes to paying. i would also like to stress that for both the 2012 and 2013 budgets, iter's additional funding needs should not jeopardise other research programmes. the european parliament will remain vigilant to ensure that iter funding does not come at the expense of other policies and programmes that are vital to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. reading his report, and reading our europe 2020 strategy, we all agree that we need to invest in education and increase the graduation rate of higher education institutions. but at the same time, we are seeing real reductions - up to 10% - in public expenditure on higher education in many member states, especially those which are under pressure from the economic crisis, namely the countries of the south. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and since education and its modernisation, the subject we are discussing today, is not a question of credits but of practical results, since investment in the knowledge triangle is a priority for the reorganization of national economies, i would also like to ask the commission whether it is considering proposing to the member states that higher education be excluded from general cuts in public spending or whether it will propose compensatory measures. because it seems absurd to the public, and rightly so, to talk about modernisation while at the same time cutting massive resources from higher education.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, in a very difficult economic environment, there are differences between member states in the provision of online services, and these differences in turn create a significant competitiveness gap. it is not only the cost of labour, it is not only the general fiscal policies, but also the opportunities, the transparency and the certainty that give a comparative advantage to a state which makes extensive use of new technologies in its dealings with citizens and businesses interested in investing in it. we must make this point clear. the e-government deficit means a lack of competition for member states and, in addition to providing hundreds of millions of euros through the structural funds, there should be an extensive exchange of good, best practices and experience in this area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on our life insurance, our natural capital: an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 (2011/2307 (ini)) (a7-0101/2012)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 65% of our habitats, 52% of species are in poor condition, with 88% of fish caught above the permitted levels. we must, however, mobilise our instruments where the money is, namely in the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. it is clear that we must stop subsidizing actions which continue to aggravate the existing dramatic situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more fish means stronger coastal communities, means, obviously, better biodiversity and fishermen with better incomes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. decentralisation of external assistance managed by the commission is necessary to increase the speed and accuracy of budgetary management procedures and to improve the quality of assistance to partner countries. however, the decentralisation process should undoubtedly be accompanied by mechanisms at member state and eu level to ensure both transparency and the provision of all relevant information on the nature of the agencies' budgetary expenditure. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission to ensure that the criteria and the procedures for assessing the quality of the projects financed are respected, in order to improve the quality of aid and to further reduce the number of unprofitable projects. it also called on the member states to make greater efforts to improve links between eu delegations and implementing bodies in order to increase the competitive advantages of the decentralisation process at national level, while avoiding duplication of efforts.
in writing. in all international organisations, in all international forums, statements and commitments to combat climate change and protect biodiversity are in excess. but the truth is that despite the declarations, biodiversity continues to decline globally in general, in europe and in greece in particular, at rates up to 1000 times faster than naturalists. the report, which i voted for, highlights these discrepancies between statements and actual data. it called on the member states and the eu to take steps to implement and make practical the commitments, and stressed the importance of member states intensifying their efforts to change the attitudes of citizens on these issues, both through their education systems and through the promotion of general rules of conduct.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the most innovative aspect of this regulation is the move from simple price cuts to giving consumers the possibility of choosing a different operator for roaming services, while keeping their number. this is where competition can deliver lower prices for consumers, especially in times of crisis. berec now has the responsibility for ensuring that this is done in the simplest and most consumer-friendly way. if the solution is over-complicated, this regulation risks failing its objectives. for this reason, any technical solution detailed by berec should not be over-complicated or excessively burdensome for the mobile industry. my congratulations to the commissioner.
mr president, it is very important that we return today with the debate on lambedusa to the issues of immigration which we had in mind in the previous plenary when we discussed the situation in greece. and it is true that italy - like greece, which is facing the problem of migration flows from turkey - last year, and not only, was called upon to deal with much of the migration flows caused by the arab spring on its own. this, if you remember, was a hot topic of discussion last year. in our visit to lampedusa and sicily we all saw the efforts of italy, the reception centres that were full, the asylum procedures that our colleagues in italy are trying to complete quickly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was, of course, a realisation for all of us that there is an even greater need for solidarity and assistance from the european union. i say this to point out that the european citizens, seeing all this and being aware of the present situation, are making extreme choices at this crucial, historic moment for europe. i am referring to greece where our fellow citizens, seeing the current situation with illegal immigration and uncontrolled flows, have finally chosen to support extreme, undemocratic, non-european voices, and so these voices received a large share of the votes of our fellow citizens in the elections three days ago. and there is a big problem here, no doubt. until our fellow citizens see convincing answers, they will choose dangerous paths, paths that lead nowhere. but when extreme voices are raised, all of us democrats have a duty to show courage; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today is europe day. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
member of the commission. − mr president, as you know i am replacing mrs kroes in this debate. first a word on the steps that the commission has taken regarding relations with tunisia and libya. the eu is making progress towards developing its own cooperation with tunisia and libya. the eu launched a dialogue with tunisia on migration, mobility and security in october last year. on 25 march we held the second round of this dialogue and started negotiating the contents of an eu-tunisia mobility partnership which we hope to be able to agree on before the summer break. we are ready to start a similar dialogue with libya as soon as conditions allow it and in the meantime we are providing the libyan authorities with technical assistance. the eu is ready to provide support for the identification and assistance of persons in need of international protection in libya, but so far the libyan authorities are reluctant to cooperate with the unchr and more generally to recognise refugees’ rights. a word, maybe, on the implications of the hirsi case. it is essential that cooperation with third countries is carried out in full respect of eu and international obligations and in particular with the recent judgment of the european court of human rights, hirsi jamaa and others versus italy, which raises eu and international law questions. when carrying out border control activities, member states must respect fundamental rights and must refrain from taking any measures in violation of the principle of non-refoulement. the commission will continue to monitor the situation closely to ensure that eu rules and international obliterations are respected and to help avoid humanitarian catastrophes. we will continue to provide financial support. expertise in dealing with large flows of immigrants is also available via frontex and easo. i will, of course, pass on all of your remarks to the competent commissioner, cecilia malmström.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council has undertaken a wide-ranging effort to address some of the problems we are experiencing in the mediterranean region, which a number of members of parliament have experienced firsthand during your visit to the region. we in the council will continue to offer italy and the other countries of the region our full support. this has been and will continue to be a priority for the danish presidency and we look forward to continuing our cooperation with the european parliament and the commission in this area. we in the eu must focus fully on dealing with illegal immigration into the eu. it is also the duty of the eu at all times to ensure the proper conditions and respect for human rights for all those who enter the eu. respect for human rights should always be the basis of our work. the latest proposal for a reception directive, which is currently being negotiated with parliament, also notes that the proper reception conditions require that the participating member states comply with, among other things, the eu charter of human rights and the european convention on human rights. there will undoubtedly be a continuing focus on ensuring proper asylum and migration management in the eu, but i hope that parliament today has had an impression of the efforts currently being made by the eu to address many of the issues that a number of members of parliament have also highlighted today, including not least how the eu can assist member states in their obligations in this area. this is a common task for the member states, the commission, the european parliament and the council.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii) [2009/2170(ini) ] (a7-0152/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, fundamental rights are of paramount importance, and effective compliance with them impacts on all eu actors and especially citizens. we all believe in free speech; we also believe that nobody’s privacy should be violated. the commission takes note of parliament’s resolution and will carry out the necessary consultations with the interested parties before reporting next year. in all cases, the balance between freedom of expression and the right to a private life will be our guiding principle.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 may 2012 at 11.30. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr niccolò rinaldi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade for change: the eu trade and investment strategy for the southern mediterranean after the arab spring [2011/2113 (ini) ] (a7-0104/2012)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. - the the establishment of democracy and political stability in the southern mediterranean is of crucial importance both for the region itself and for the european union. i would like to point out the impact of an uncontrolled wave of illegal immigration in the european union and remind you of the phenomenon of piracy caused by the collapse of somalia. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. the european union must promote investment in agricultural and rural infrastructure, knowledge transfer, institutional improvements, all while ensuring that natural resources, energy and the climate are not burdened. the development of trade requires: (a) to promote the convergence of our regulatory framework with that of the southern mediterranean, taking into account the consequences for the sensitive sectors of agriculture in the european union and the protection of the european agricultural model;
mr president, the european union of today emerged from the ruins of two world wars and today stands as an example of the construction of a peaceful world thanks to the courage and vision of its founders. but today, it is again a matter of courage and vision for europe to win back the minds and hearts of its citizens. the euro must become a symbol of unity and cohesion, not a tool of division. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. europe must invest resources in employment, innovation and the green social contract, and not just in bailing out banks and paying off debts. the policies currently being pursued to deal with the greek crisis have failed because they lead to poverty, unemployment, recession and the destruction of the real economy. the greek elections have shown that, in order not to give support to parties which are enemies of europe, we must insist on defending european values and the european social model in countries facing crises. the success of such a policy would be in the interest not only of greece but also of the other european countries.
mr president, the anti-fascist victory of the peoples in may 1945 was achieved thanks to the impartial sacrifices of the soviet people, to the heroic struggle of the resistance movements led by the communists. the day of the anti-fascist victory was chosen by the imperialist european union as "europe day" with the aim of erasing from the memory of the peoples the lesson that, when they want, they can crush their seemingly invincible opponent, in order to hide the fact that nazism was conceived by the capitalist exploitative system. today, unfortunately, the unprecedented attempt to equate communism with fascism is the official policy of the european union and of bourgeois governments. the european union's member states have restored the ss, the hitler symbols and the communists. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, the pressure on public finances has never been greater. the efficient use of public money is more important than ever. at the same time, our role as a parliament is to be accountable to the citizens and we must ensure that taxpayers' money is used correctly, transparently and efficiently. since cohesion policy is at the heart of the debate on the error rate and its impact on the european union budget, it is vital to highlight what is and is not wrong. a transaction which is not in full compliance with the applicable regulations is considered to be an error. a mistake does not mean that resources have been lost or wasted or that fraud has been committed. with a targeted effort by the commission and specific member states the error rate can be significantly reduced. i am sure we will all agree that, in the next programming period, cohesion policy should be more simplified, more transparent, more accountable and more cost-effective, which will ultimately help us to better protect the european union's financial interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not mean, of course, that everything is perfect, that there is no room for improvement, and that there are no problems at all. but we try to identify problems and deal with them. in the current great economic and social crisis, the importance of monitoring has become more important than ever and together - the european parliament, the agencies, the commission and the european court of auditors - we must be determined to tackle and solve problems in order to achieve even greater results.
in writing. the lack of democracy in europe is also largely due to the inadequate exploitation of the possibilities offered by new technologies and, consequently, e-government. however, for legal reasons, the electronic publication of the eu official journal was delayed. in order to overcome these obstacles and to ensure that all citizens have direct access to european decisions, the european parliament proposed the use of the flexibility clause (article 352 tfeu) as an appropriate response to the legal questions raised by several member states. for the european parliament, the electronic publication of eu legal acts, currently available in the eur-lex database, is of course more than welcome and conveys the belief that this reform will enhance legal certainty and reduce access costs for citizens and businesses. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this own-initiative report by the ep, although non-binding, is of particular importance for greece and i voted in favour of it. regional airports and air services are an important value of our national tourist product but they are also of particular importance for the service of greek citizens given the geography of the country. in this report, the european parliament proposes a number of recommendations on policy options which, if adopted by the commission and the member states, would improve the operational and economic efficiency of regional airports and air services. some of these, such as the definition of the concept of regional airports, their emergence as important partners of the national air networks and the completion of the single european sky projects, are important points for the further development and emergence of greek regional airports. the government that will emerge after the electoral processes in greece should make use of this report for the benefit of the national regional airports and services.
in writing. with more than 1% of european gdp lost to fraud each year in a particularly difficult economic period, action to combat corruption and fraud in europe is urgent. the protection of the european union's economic interests also requires increased cooperation between the member states. while irregularity reports increased in all sectors in 2011, further improvements to the irregularity management system (ims) are needed. moreover, as the commission itself admits, 'the data in its annual reports must be interpreted with caution because the actual levels of irregularities are neither known nor estimated, and are therefore not provided'. this unsatisfactory finding makes it clear that the commission and the member states have not exhausted the policies and measures which will lead to the reduction of fraud in europe. in this report, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament calls for and expects concrete proposals, actions and initiatives from both the commission and the member states to combat corruption and fraud.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. our role as a parliament is to be accountable to the citizens and to ensure that taxpayers' money is used transparently and efficiently. this obligation is further reinforced by the current economic and financial crisis, which has put public finances under unprecedented pressure. the efficient and correct use of public money is more important than ever. the biggest problem identified in the commission's annual report and highlighted by the rapporteur himself in his report is the lack of consistency between the member states in the recording and reporting of irregularities or suspected fraud. this makes it impossible to assess objectively the true scale of fraud in the member states and prevents the european parliament, the commission and olaf from carrying out their tasks of assessing the situation and making further proposals. this situation must not continue and the commission must take full responsibility for recovering funds wrongly paid and for collecting the required uniform comparable data from all member states.
in writing. the costs and charges of roaming on public mobile networks within the union are a hot topic in greece as in the rest of europe. it is true that, at times, the charges for these services have deviated from the european legal framework. for example, in addition to the fixed prices in chats and text messages, in order to avoid 'bloated bills', the withdrawal limit of eur 50 applies as a rule to all consumers who have not already chosen a different withdrawal limit. however, some companies still do not offer consumers appropriate charges and do not comply with community law. in any case, excessive roaming charges and the resulting limited use of roaming services within the eu do not benefit european citizens or the european economy. the present proposal for a regulation is therefore intended to deal with these distortions and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the joint motion for a resolution by the conservative, liberal and social democratic political groups on 'maritime piracy', because in the name of combating it it is escalating the imperialist interventions of the eu-us-nato from the horn of africa to the indian ocean to control the resources and exploit the peoples. the resolution calls on the eu to strengthen its military and naval presence in the wider region by reinforcing the eunavfor atalanta force in coordination with nato. it is also proposed to increase the presence of armed units on board ships and to promote new euro-army and euro-fleet general staffs in the region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. it called for the mobilisation of the european maritime safety agency and other organisations to support eu and nato naval warfare operations, increasing the risks to seafarers and people. it is imperative that the peoples intensify the struggle for disengagement from the eu and nato and the other imperialist associations, for the conquest of popular power in their countries.
in writing. the issue of maritime piracy, particularly in the somali region, has also concerned and affected the greek merchant marine fleet. the joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, reiterates the ep's serious concern at the continuing and growing threat to international shipping posed by piracy and armed robbery and calls on the high representative and the member states to urgently consider ways of freeing the 191 seafarers currently held hostage. it is clear that impunity and the inability to apprehend those who engage in piracy exposes the international community and encourages the perpetuation of these practices. parliament called for immediate and effective measures to prosecute those who have been involved in acts of piracy, called on third countries and eu member states which had not yet transposed all the provisions of the un convention on the law of the sea and the un convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of navigation to do so immediately, and called on the council and the commission to consider the possibility of setting up specialised anti-piracy courts in the countries of the region to prosecute pirates on the spot.
madam president, i would like to thank my friend simon busuttil for the very good work he has done. i had prepared another speech but, unfortunately, i shall say other things because i have seen this amendment which completely changes the spirit of the report. in greece, we have a very well-known song, according to which "what begins well ends in pain". i remember this song now because the report started very well and was widely accepted, after it was voted unanimously in committee, but it will not end well, and that is because the internal market and especially the scoreboard, the so-called scoreboard, is not about numbers but about people. it is a matter for the citizens of europe, and it is a matter for the citizens of europe at a time of crisis. the european parliament, when it debates, reflects and legislates, does so for the sake of the european citizens, and it does so not in vitro, but in vivo, because we are concerned with life itself. the scoreboard, as we know, reflects how well each member state transposes european legislation and how well it applies it in its territory. we all know that there are member states which are lagging behind. we all agree that these member states should be reprimanded and possibly punished. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the fact that half the cases are on taxation and the environment is telling, because we are talking about economic and monetary union at the moment and we see that when these two things do not go together, we have problems and a crisis in europe and the euro is threatened. the amendment is therefore tabled and calls for the appointment of a prosecutor and the creation of a new body to impose penalties to warn the member states. i am afraid that such actions will neither make progress in europe nor make the internal market attractive. i would ask you to give very serious thought to the question of incentives and penalties, because they reflect perceptions. we, as socialists and democrats, are in favour of incentives and we do not want to believe that the epp is only in favour of penalties.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 22 may 2012, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the european commission entitled 'visa waiver for all eu citizens travelling to canada and the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement'.
mr president, i heard and i share the concerns of colleagues on the visa issue, and i would also like to draw attention to another possible problem regarding this agreement. for the first time since the lisbon treaty allowed us to do so, we have concluded eu agreements on investment issues. it seems that the proposal will include provision for investor-state dispute settlement. this will mean that not only states but also individual investors can sue eu states over what they regard as obstacles to their investments. this might seriously reduce our powers here in this house, and also in the national parliaments, to regulate on environment-related, social and labour issues. it is proposed to maximise economic profit and benefits, but our own eu assessment – the economic, social and environmental assessment – says there is no solid evidence to suggest that investor-state dispute settlement will maximise economic benefit in ceta beyond simply serving as one form of enforcement mechanism, just as state-state settlement is also an enforcement mechanism. it goes on to say that a well-crafted state-state dispute settlement mechanism might be a more appropriate enforcement mechanism in ceta. so our own assessment says we should move in another direction. the idea of an investor-state settlement mechanism was introduced in the north american free trade agreement (nafta) because mexico’s courts were considered to be corrupt, but in the end the mechanism was used mainly against canada. twenty-eight cases have been taken against canada under nafta, and out of them eight have been concluded officially. four have been lost – 50% have been lost. i would like to mention very briefly the case of ethyl corp versus canada. canada decided to ban, for health reasons, a gasoline additive, and the ethyl company took canada to the nafta tribunal. it made canada pay cad 16 million in compensation, apologise and withdraw the ban. i believe that this is not the kind of regulation we can accept in this agreement.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two days ago the president of the european parliament visited greece. during his meeting with the president of the republic, the president of the hellenic republic received a call from mrs merkel, who recommended holding a referendum alongside the elections, asking whether the greek people accepted the measures of the memorandum or whether they wished to leave the euro. mr schulz saw the outrage and unreserved condemnation of such interventions by all political forces. it would therefore be expected that, instead of propagating positions which the greek people have rejected, he would instead choose to do his duty and make a democratic statement in which he would stress that the greek people should be left free to decide democratically. he didn't. such behaviour and interference, however, undermines the cohesion of the european union and undermines democracy, not only in greece but also in the european union. i would ask the president of the european parliament to give a statement on this question of democracy.
mr president, in order to deal with the budgetary crisis in greece, measures are being implemented which provoke a reaction from society, whereas a much more socially balanced policy could be pursued. i would like to mention one example which is completely absent from the new memorandum on the adjustment of the greek economy. this is the country's dependence on imported petroleum fuels. greece, like other countries facing a deep crisis today, is totally dependent on oil imports, which, however, place a heavy burden on its economy and increase its trade deficit significantly. the annual cost of importing oil, just to run the power plants on the unconnected islands, is over eur 300 million. the memorandum should therefore place a strong emphasis on energy efficiency and resource efficiency, as this could improve the country's finances and create jobs by revitalising the economy. i think that one of the changes that should be made to the memorandum should be to that policy.
mr president, the elections on 17 june will be the most crucial in greece's post-war history. citizens are being asked to choose whether they want a responsible government that can take the country out of the crisis, or whether they prefer to succumb to populism and easy promises. in a context of such a critical nature, with such dramatic dilemmas, outside interference is working negatively and provoking reactions even from those who want to listen. the most recent example is mrs merkel's proposal to the greek political leadership to hold a referendum on the question of whether or not to adopt the euro on the same day as the elections. it is a view that is out of place and out of time, because a caretaker government cannot propose a referendum, because the parliament which alone can decide on such a thing has been dissolved in view of elections and, finally, because nowhere are referendums held because some partners demand it. when a referendum was proposed by the pasok government a few months ago, with a much more specific question, there was a negative reaction internationally, spearheaded by mrs merkel. any such intervention is absolutely counterproductive at this time. we call on the commission and the council to refrain from any action which gives the impression of interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign country. from europe, greece needs a united voice of support and not hints and threats.
mr president, there has been a lot of talk lately about greece leaving the euro. some even talk about leaving the european union. unfortunately, there are too many people talking and too much being said, with the risk of triggering a crisis before we even get to the june elections. they speak without considering the economic, social and geopolitical implications of such a case. i think it would be better not to divide the greeks, according to their vote, into two factions, pro-europe and anti-europe. we must realize that this was basically a vote of reaction to the political system that has brought greece to this tragic point. we must try to help productive greece, which deserves a better chance than it has been given so far. the last two years have been a problematic management of a truly productive greece. the unemployment has hit the private sector particularly hard and the european side is not without responsibility for this.
mr president, the balance between austerity and the growth of the european economies is one that european leaders must find, both under the pressure of the election results in france and greece and the anxious gaze of the markets. strict austerity measures continue to create new unemployment and wider problems of social cohesion across the european union. the electoral results of local or national elections across europe, such as those held in italy, germany and france, represent a generalized reaction to the policy of austerity. the german model of budgetary discipline must be relaxed and the economy must be developed immediately if the european societies are to regain their equilibrium and safeguard their cohesion, which is under threat. the currency is also threatened, mr president. we must respect the tolerance of european citizens. in the light of the principle of european solidarity, we must consider a more realistic solution, involving the issue of eurobonds, the strengthening of the european bank and the issuing of new money.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, small and mediumsized enterprises are the cornerstone of the european economy and perhaps the most important tool for stimulating growth and creating jobs in the present conditions prevailing in the european union. the sector is, however, the most vulnerable to the effects of the economic crisis. the fall in the profitability of small and mediumsized enterprises in greece is 60%, the highest in europe, followed by spain at 55%. the opposite is the case in germany, where the profitability of smes has increased by 21%. in my country, greece, the sector is deteriorating the most, and access to bank financing for smes is no longer possible. many businesses are closing down, worsening the situation in the business and labour sectors. however, the latest european bank lending surveys show that the criteria for banks to lend to smes have increased. the commission is therefore invited to study and propose measures to facilitate the absorption of funds in countries which are particularly unable to secure the necessary amounts of cofinancing because of strict austerity programmes. the commission is invited to promote cooperation and synergies between the corrective fund and the european investment bank in order to find financial instruments and to be able to expect multiplier effects. the most profitable sectors in each economy must be found and the right strategic orientation must be made.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see a large percentage of unemployed people who were employed in such enterprises; but there are also owners of such businesses who lose their jobs, which is often not reflected in the unemployment rate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. it is a fact that 80% of applications for loans from small and mediumsized enterprises to banks are currently rejected in greece. this means that there is no funding to move them, or to import raw materials or products, and so they are driven to collapse. on the other hand, the conditions for access to european finance do not allow smes to move either, because they have to spend the capital first, because vat is not eligible and because they have to wait a long time to get back the money they have spent. that's impossible in a time of collapse. we must therefore change in order to put into practice what the commissioner has said. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the needs of the young people.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the eu economy, as they are a driving force for growth, job creation, innovation, cohesion and the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives. however, they suffer from funding gaps and the current crisis has exacerbated this situation and has hampered the efforts of smes to find new capital. in the last few weeks we have heard a great deal about measures to promote growth and combat unemployment, particularly among young people. this growth boost can start with smes and strengthening their competitiveness. the european funds have already made a considerable contribution to this area, but i am convinced that much more can be done. in the new cohesion policy programming period, we need to ensure long-term actions to improve access to the structural funds for smes and to simplify procedures to reduce the administrative burden and red tape that often hamper their operation. in addition, there is a need for regional autonomy in the selection of sme programmes to be financed by the structural funds and for the involvement of actors at all levels to be encouraged in order to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. i voted against the report, despite the fact that it attempts to maintain some balance by stating the need to respect fundamental human rights and the principle of proportionality. but overall the report is moving in the wrong direction based on the stockholm programme and the military presence of eu forces, through the cfsp, in neighbouring countries and the rest of the world. the report proposes to increase spending on security issues, linking the external and internal dimensions of security and further linking eu foreign policy with organisations such as nato. finally, the report refers vaguely to extremist organisations, to 'the highlighting of actions aimed at countering violent radicalisation of vulnerable populations' and states that it 'looks forward to the future work of the eu radicalisation awareness network, whose mission is to facilitate the exchange of information'. if and as long as the report, in this terminology, implies the poor social strata, then it aims at the criminalisation of their expression and reactions. we are also seeing the way in which left-wing political forces are systematically branded as extremist. but these issues are being addressed through social policies, through education, through the fair distribution of wealth and through social equality, and not through policing, repression and informers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the european security policy is closely linked to the concept of the rule of law in the eu, as is explicitly stated in the treaty of lisbon. the strengthening and implementation of this policy cannot, of course, be without regard to democratic values, human rights and fundamental freedoms. the stockholm programme makes it clear that europe has achieved a partial reduction in organised crime but has not fully developed its capabilities to respond to this modern threat. the next steps, which are outlined in the report, should therefore focus on four key points. these are: firstly, the clear division of competences between the eu and the member states; secondly, the increased powers of parliament as also provided for in the treaty; thirdly, ensuring sufficient financial resources for the implementation of this strategy in the multiannual framework 2014-2020; and, fourthly, the supplementing and codification of the acts constituting organised crime which the eu aims to tackle jointly with the member states.
in writing. the abolition of the pillars in the eu structure by the lisbon treaty has opened the way to closer cooperation at member state level on the issue of criminal law and its european approach. as an indication of the new policies, the treaty now provides for a procedure to suspend the ordinary legislative procedure if a member state considers that proposed legislation affects fundamental aspects of its criminal justice system. however, the increasing volume of such cases now arising at european level raises some practical issues. for example, a host of new eu initiatives can easily overwhelm national administrations. the present report, which i voted in favour of, therefore proposes the adoption of specific, very careful approaches to ensure consistency and high quality in a field of law which is open to different interpretations and in which there is a very high risk of serious divergences between member states.
in writing. consumers are exposed to thousands of messages and references on a daily basis about products and services offered in a wide variety of contexts, which increases the risk of becoming more vulnerable in certain areas, such as food and the financial sector. it is true that the market seeks to create needs in its consumer public - and particularly in vulnerable individuals, needs that do not really exist, achieving its goal through inadequate training and awareness of consumers about their legal rights. a more coherent eu strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers is therefore necessary. i therefore vote in favour of this report because it strengthens consumer participation in the single market, ensuring consumer protection and creating a more dynamic and competitive internal market.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report and welcome the intention of the report to introduce the concept of vulnerable consumers, in a horizontal way, into the various legislative and policy instruments of the european union designed to protect consumers, taking into account the different needs, capacities and circumstances applicable to them. of particular importance is the call in the report for the european union and the member states to pay greater attention to and invest in consumer information and education campaigns aimed at getting the right messages to the right segment of consumers. overall, the establishment of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers to enable them to participate in the single market will contribute not only to their social integration and the move towards a fairer and more tolerant society, but also to ensuring a more dynamic, secure and competitive internal market. however, it is necessary to ensure that this specific protection of vulnerable consumers does not in any event lead to the creation of two different levels of protection.
in writing. the possible issue of one and two euro banknotes in addition to coins has been a topic of discussion almost since the adoption of the single currency. it is true that the banknote is more resistant to counterfeiting than coins, while at the same time the issuance of one and two euro banknotes will benefit the member states as the banknote is easier to use. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the value of commemorative coins is not undermined.
in writing. in the absence of fiscal union, the internal market is perhaps the best tool in the eu to achieve growth in the context of europe's difficult economic situation. the first beneficiaries of a properly and fully functioning single market are business and citizens. however, a key to further strengthening the internal market is the faster, more effective and efficient transposition of community legislation into the member states. the present report, which i voted for because it highlights this point, stresses that all the means at the commission's disposal to promote timely and high-quality transport must be used in conjunction with infringement procedures, and that the member states must abandon bureaucratic policies and quickly and effectively incorporate the resulting community law into their national legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it clearly expresses the need for constitutional, legislative and social changes in turkey in order to achieve full equality between men and women, while improving the quality of life of women in a modern state. the council also called for the protection of women from physical violence by extending the number of shelters for battered women and for action to be taken to reduce discrimination against women of kurdish origin or those who choose a different sexual orientation. the resolution also calls on the turkish government to increase the participation of girls at all levels of education and notes the progress made in this regard. finally, two important areas where women's participation needs to be strengthened are the labour market and political life. the report rightly points to the limited number of women in work, often with minimal labour rights, and the relatively small presence of women in political life, despite recent progress. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the report is balanced and that it suggests the appropriate framework for improving the living conditions of women in turkey.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, commissioners, the meeting of the heads of state and government on 23 may is intended to discuss informally a comprehensive set of measures designed to promote growth and jobs in preparation for the june european council. there has not been a discussion in the council of the informal european council so i will use this opportunity to provide you with the presidency’s expectations. there has been much talk about an austerity strategy versus a growth strategy. i would like to make it very clear that this is a false distinction. what we in the danish presidency have been working on throughout our period in office is a dual approach where we pursue fiscal discipline and growth at the same time. we cannot create growth if we do not have economic stability. economic growth will contribute to public finances, and structural reforms will contribute both to consolidation efforts and to increasing growth and competitiveness. i believe that there is a wide agreement among member states on this dual approach. this informal european council meeting on 23 may will provide an opportunity to focus on the various measures that form part of the eu’s growth agenda. the aim is to inject further momentum into that process. the danish presidency warmly welcomes this increased momentum. the meeting will be a stepping stone towards the european council in june where the heads of state and government can be expected to task further work grouped under the following headings: firstly, mobilising new policies to fully support growth: the informal meeting will be an opportunity to highlight the rapid progress which needs to be made in the council and in the european parliament on a number of proposals which have the potential to boost growth. obvious examples are the single market act and the patent. the danish presidency has been particularly committed to making progress on these issues. but further efforts are needed, in particular to help boost employment, and particular attention is also needed to tackle youth unemployment. the presidency therefore warmly welcomes the commission’s employment package. a further key element to the growth agenda is the external economic policy. here again the presidency, together with the commission, is preparing for a discussion in june on how to make better use of strategic partnerships in support of our trade and economic interests. secondly, gearing member states’ policies to growth: it is essential that we continue with the reform agenda, which remains crucial to ensuring job-creating growth. this will be dealt with in more detail in june when we will bring the european semester to a close and endorse country-specific recommendations to guide member states in their structural reforms and employment policies. finally, on financing the economy, we must continue to pursue an approach based on smart fiscal consolidation. that means reducing debt and deficits, but in a way which allows scope for continuing to invest for the future. there are a number of specific initiatives which are likely to be raised at this week’s meeting and which will certainly need to be developed further. firstly, the eib could be better mobilised to support smes and help finance key infrastructure projects. heads [of state and government] may be invited to agree to the principle of increasing the banks’ capital and of strengthening existing joint instruments. it is also important that agreement be reached on the project bonds pilot phase, which we hope to achieve at our negotiations with parliament today. secondly, the structural funds should be better focused on competitiveness and convergence. for the current funds this means reallocation with an emphasis on smes, youth training and employment. we shall make sure that the eu’s future budget, including cohesion, is targeted to sustain and develop growth and employment. the meeting tomorrow is informal. there will be no preparatory discussions in the council and no formal conclusions. the purpose will be to agree on principles and ideas for generating growth in europe. let me underline that the danish presidency has from the very first day consistently stressed the overriding priority which is attached to putting europe back on the growth track. it has been the focus of the informal european council in january, the european council in march, and now again in may and june. we have been working hard to ensure rapid adaption of relevant legislation. we are grateful that this objective is shared by parliament and that we have enjoyed constructive cooperation. but now we need to take the next steps, and that is the task ahead for the council, for this parliament and for the commission. we need to work together to secure growth and jobs in europe.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first say on behalf of president barroso that he very much wanted to be here today to have this debate with you. however, his attendance at the g8 and the nato meeting in chicago made it impossible for him to be back from the us in time. on his behalf and with the team, together with my colleagues michel barnier and lászló andor, let me outline to you the commission’s action plan for growth and jobs with a view to tomorrow’s informal summit. once again we find ourselves at a turning point in the debt crisis. at the same time, the european union is now witnessing a new level of debate about growth and how precisely to achieve growth, which is definitely positive and indeed necessary. from the outset the commission has insisted on a twin-track policy response that combines both stability and growth. from the outset we have combined concrete proposals for stability with concrete proposals for growth. the commission is grateful that this house has supported those ideas since very early on. it is very good news that the member states are now also more willing to take action in this regard. i see tomorrow’s dinner of heads of state and government as an opportunity to seize the moment for growth, and as a major stepping stone to the european council at the end of june 2012. on 30 may, i.e. between the two councils, the commission will present its country-specific recommendations, addressing the specific economic challenges facing each and every member state as well as the union generally. on 30 may we will also set our line on implementing the stability and growth pact in a growth-friendly and differentiated way, applying its inbuilt scope of judgment, which focuses on the structural sustainability of public finances over the medium term and takes into account the fiscal space and macro-economic conditions of each member state. we will use these opportunities in the summits to urge member states to deliver on the commitments they have made to strengthen stability, implement structural reforms and boost sustainable growth and employment. we will urge member states to continue to build the bedrock of economic stability. pursuing sound public finances is really not an option but a necessity. we can never have sustainable growth as long as we have an unsustainable debt. we are starting to see a rebalancing of our economy. deficits are falling across europe. there is simply no other way to build confidence and cut borrowing costs. every euro spent on servicing debt is a euro less for jobs and investment. in our schuman day statement two weeks ago, the commission called for accelerated implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, which has been endorsed by each and every member state as a means of accelerating action for jobs and growth in the short term. this will be the key message president barroso will bring to tomorrow’s informal european council. he will urge the heads of state and government to back a growth initiative that will serve as a catalyst for faster and more robust economic recovery. the commission will present this in more detail before the june european council. we would also remind you that the europe 2020 strategy is the agenda for the long-term health and sustainability of our economy. meeting its climate and energy targets alone could create up to five million new jobs in europe, putting almost a quarter of our unemployed people into work. but europe 2020 must be for today as well as for tomorrow. with the right political pressure, we can start to make a difference today. let me give you just two very concrete and very topical examples. first, we have asked member states to give the commission a mandate to negotiate with third parties on tax evasion and fraud. national treasuries lose revenues through tax evasion, and these are losses they simply cannot afford. twenty-five member states want the european union to move ahead in these negotiations, while two again blocked the measure at the last ecofin council at a cost of potentially tens of billions of euros for european taxpayers. another example: we need to step up the pace of trade negotiations with the key global partners. if europe is to grow, it needs to ride the wave of global growth. our exports to korea, for instance, shot up by 20% last year – 2011 – following the entry into force of our free trade agreement. there are many more opportunities out in the world economy and we must do all we can to seize them. honourable members, there are many measures that we can take quickly to strengthen our economies and send a message of confidence. promoting public and private investment is a cornerstone of our growth initiative. we will first of all propose that member states commit a further eur 10 billion to the european investment bank. this could unleash many times that amount in new investment. the eib could expand its lending volume, which is a quick and effective way of channelling badly-needed stimulus to the real economy. let me remind you that this is a proposal which president barroso put before this house on 28 september 2011, in his state of the union address. now there is momentum to get it off the ground, with a focus on financing innovative and competitive small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in countries and regions where such financing is most needed. the eib and the structural funds can also be used more effectively through limited risk-sharing with private investors. we welcome, too, the excellent progress in the negotiations with parliament and the council recently on our project bond proposal, and we look forward to an agreement in the trialogue meeting later today. we estimate that the project bonds could unlock up to eur 4.6 billion of investment in infrastructure and innovation already in a pilot phase. we will also urge immediate agreement on our growth-focused budget for next year, 2013, with agreement by the end of the year on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014 to 2020. this will be an important signal of europe’s readiness to invest in its future: in job-rich green growth and innovation-based reindustrialisation in europe. and, in truth, the mff is our marshal plan for europe. we will look at further optimising the use of the structural funds. we want to invest them better and use the funds as catalysts to boost sectors such as renewable energy sources. we will also continue to work for a swift adoption of the financial transaction tax proposal which the commission put forward last september and on which you are voting, i think, tomorrow or the day after. in june, we will bring forward new detailed proposals on how its eur 57 billion a year of revenue could be used for targeted investment. on the structural side, there are many things we can do that cost little but can have a major impact on our economy. the single market for goods has opened up vast opportunities for economic dynamism but we must be blunt and honest here: it is incomplete and unbalanced. it does not currently work for services, and that penalises those member states that most urgently need to catch up. it is also failing to bring out the full potential of the digital economy. president barroso will tomorrow urge the heads of state and government to implement the single market act quickly, starting with the european patent, which must be adopted in june. it is high time to clear the way for the bright innovators of today to become europe’s successful entrepreneurs of tomorrow. under the leadership of michel barnier, and in order to keep up the pressure for implementation, the commission will present a single market governance scoreboard in june, as well as proposals to get more out of the services directive. in addition, whilst pursuing the growth agenda, we must address the social emergency that many europeans face today with the same determination with which we address the economic challenges. commissioner andor is steering our work in this field, where our focus is on europe’s most immediate social challenges. the most pressing challenge is, of course, unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, which in some countries is at intolerable levels. in january the president announced the creation of action teams to mobilise efforts in the eight member states with the highest proportion of young people out of work. he will present the results of these efforts tomorrow. looking beyond the immediate horizon, i believe that a long-term perspective on the future of economic and monetary union is necessary to keep us all moving in the right direction. therefore, we need to reflect on what kind of european union would be required to deepen economic and political integration – for instance, so that joint issuance of debt would make sense for all member states sharing the single currency. last november’s green paper on stability bonds will be followed up soon, ideally with a medium-term to long-term roadmap that outlines the deeper fiscal and economic integration necessary in order to minimise moral hazard and ensure fiscal sustainability – in other words, the features of an economic and political union required to make mutualisation of debt rational for all. allow me to close with a word on greece. the commission’s message to the greek people is this: we want greece to remain part of the european family and of the euro. after living beyond its means for too long, the journey greece is now undertaking is difficult and demanding, but it is a journey we are taking together in a pact of solidarity. the euro area has stood by greece in all of its difficulties and we will continue to do so, not only through the unprecedented levels of financial assistance contained in the two packages and the debt write-down – that together are equal to eur 33 600 per greek citizen – but also through the many assistance and support programmes the effective implementation of which depends on the determination of the greek leaders and people. i am talking here about programmes to get the structural funds working on the ground where they are needed: loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, support for young people without jobs, and technical assistance to reform tax systems to make them efficient and fair, and to eliminate red tape for businesses. we are ready to stand by greece on its journey of reform. we want to stand by greece. having said that, greece must remain determined to reform. we are convinced that there is no easier way. we are convinced that the alternative would be far worse. so let me take this opportunity to call on all responsible forces in greece to use these few precious weeks to get the facts across, so that the greek people can make a fully informed and responsible choice. i will conclude. there is no silver bullet for economic growth. if there were, it would have been fired already. the build-up of debts, deficits and imbalances in our economies did not happen overnight. it happened over many years, and the rebalancing we are now going through will not be concluded overnight either. that is why it is so important to stay the course on sustainable and sound public finances. at the same time, the commission strongly supports the renewed drive for growth that is now sweeping across europe. we are confident that there is now the political will and determination to move forward, starting with many of the proposals for sustainable growth that the commission has already put on the table. now is the moment to go further with our actions for growth and to get them working at the service of europe’s citizens. we count on you here in this house to help make it happen. there is no reason to wait. indeed there is no time to lose.
question with a blue card. mr president, i listened very carefully to mr farage reiterating once again his position that he wants greece to leave the eurozone and to leave the euro and return to its national currency, the drachma. today he even told us that if this happens, tourism will be better and everything will be better. tell us, mr farage, if this happens and greece returns to its national currency, will the currency be devalued, yes or no? food prices for the citizens will double, triple, yes or no? fuel will be three and four times more expensive, yes or no? tell the world the truth.
mr president, this council must send a message to the european citizens that the union is not just a lending machine which, if we obey, gives us the loan but if we disobey, threatens to cut off our lending. greece, with the collapse of its political centre, is on its way to becoming either a new weimar republic or a new cuba, the mediterranean. the measures imposed on the country were imposed with such speed and such brutality that even we greek politicians could not describe them because we did not have time. that's why we had this reaction from society. we greeks know what awaits us if we return to the drachma. but we do not know what awaits us if we remain in the euro, with all that we have to do and want to do to remain in the euro. commissioners, give tomorrow's message on the future of europe. we have to be very clear about what we are going to say to the people, explain why we are staying in europe, why this is the future, why the new generation will behave like this, why this is what will happen. we have no arguments. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. this is not the europe we dreamed of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question is why we are holding an informal summit tomorrow. is it to defuse the strong opposition to the extreme neoliberal policies being implemented in the european union? it is done to give false hopes so that the doubts and criticisms expressed in greece, france and possibly ireland are not generalised, or there is a genuine willingness to change the climate and to have a change of policy, which i do not see. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are fanatically oriented towards this policy and this policy they will follow. we cannot therefore expect these leaders to adopt a different policy. mr oli ren, is it the same again for responsible and irresponsible political forces in greece? again the same for uninformed greek citizens? i can assure you that the greek people, like the people of europe, are informed and responsible. neither your speeches nor the summits that are supposed to discuss the issue of development can distract them from the radical changes they are calling for in a europe of cohesion, democracy and solidarity.
the problem is not only the debt of certain countries but also the differences between them in the type of development. this has created discord and problems of cooperation in the institutions. the image of the european union, despite progress at treaty level, is reminiscent of the tower of babel. what is needed today is not just the stability that comes from austerity or just growth, but a combination of the two. a country with a high debt burden like greece obviously needs a programme of austerity and many structural changes to boost growth. yes, we greeks have an obligation to our creditors, but our creditors today are our partners. the greek people know their obligations but any people in want and feeling that their future is dark, can make desperate decisions in the coming elections. the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports on the subject, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, instead of some people saying or suggesting that greece is the problem and that it should be removed from the euro zone, something that nobody in greece really wants, let us all help to lower the tone and to make the problems understandable, to find a more balanced way, one that fits the european economy and the social model. we can all benefit from the good practices of other countries, but the theory of a model, for example the german one for all, seems to be at odds with the harsh reality. i doubt that tomorrow's council will bring any new ideas. real solutions require going beyond the established mindset in the institutions. europe is no longer the sure winner in the world system. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
mr president, it is now almost four years since the start of the eurozone crisis and it is now clear that the recipe for unilateral austerity that the conservative majority of the council has imposed on the weak countries is a recipe for disaster. my country, greece, has lived through it and is still living through it in the most dramatic way. this policy plunged the country into recession, blocking any prospect of recovery. and the predictions were always wrong. while the forecast for the first half of '12 was 5%, the recession is finally looking to exceed 6%, making it imperative to adjust the program. if the union cannot propose measures for growth which will combat the recession and create new jobs, the death spiral into which other countries besides greece have been plunged will continue. in greece, every family has one unemployed person. if he is over 50, his chances of finding a job are almost nil. the absence of a development arm in the programme for greece is strangling an entire people and preparing the ground for extreme anti-european voices. it is time for concrete, personalised development programmes to turn the tide. we all have a great responsibility.
mr president, in the one minute you have given me, i would like to draw the attention of the three commissioners here today to a word. the word "despair". the desperation into which austerity measures are driving the peoples. but those who think that this is the end of the matter are wrong, because despair makes people believe in demagoguery, because despair opens the way to all those who trade in hope, because despair makes all those who lie, all those who claim that a country can remain in the euro zone and keep the euro, but without keeping any of its commitments, credible. that, please, take that into account. transfer it to the informal council tomorrow because it has significance. it is perhaps an opportunity for this informal council to take decisions which will have a substantive impact on the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i congratulate mr rueda on his report, because in addition to proposals for incorporating the new iccat recommendation on the management of tuna stocks, which is certainly one of the most profitable fisheries, he has also presented us with a number of proposals concerning the overall proper management of the marine environment. the fisheries sector is at a critical point according to the european commission, with 75% of fish stocks overfished and, in the mediterranean basin in particular, 82% overfished. the issue of illegal (iuu) fishing should be given priority. particular attention should be paid to combating illegal fishing and to effective control, especially in relation to third countries which are not members of the european union. it is not disputed that vigo and the european fisheries control agency have achieved positive results. however, it is not enough.
rapporteur. − mr president, allow me first to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions and their productive work, which was indispensable for the finalisation of this report. allow me also – although this is not customary – to thank the commission, and especially commissioner šemeta, because despite the initial reluctance to introduce an eu financial transaction tax, the commission modified its position, endorsed the main points of parliament’s arguments adopted in various resolutions in the past, and finally responded to our call and presented a legislative proposal. i consider it a very fortunate coincidence that we are having this debate in plenary today, on the same day as the informal european council summit, whose agenda is exclusively dedicated to growth and job creation, because i believe that the financial transaction tax is an integral part of europe’s strategy to exit the crisis. this is because it can raise significant revenues which can be used for stimulating growth, job creation and smart fiscal consolidation as well as public goods such as development goals and tackling climate change. this will bring a fairer and most balanced distribution of the cost of the crisis, which is today being borne by labour and the productive economy. let me remind you that we are all in favour of a global financial transaction tax, since the broader the jurisdiction the more effective the tax. our challenge is how to reach a global agreement, and since europe has the largest financial market in the world it is up to us to make the first step and open the way. that is why we are in favour of an eu-wide financial transaction tax. we are aware that the unanimity rule makes it exceedingly difficult for us to advance on such issues. we have taken huge steps on enhanced economic and budgetary rules and compliance, which contrasts with a lack of progress on tax coordination. a minimum of tax coordination in the context of this enhanced budgetary and economic surveillance is certainly a must. it is an integral part of the new architecture which we are designing. we cannot be held hostage by a handful of member states, and that is why we can support, as a first step, enhanced cooperation among a certain number of member states – once we have exhausted our efforts to achieve an eu-27 agreement, of course. on the technical aspects of the proposal, the success of the financial transaction tax depends on its design, which should leave no scope for tax avoidance. the report seeks to strengthen the design of the directive and make sure that the framework will be watertight and tax evasion minimised. we have introduced two new elements: the issuance principle, which complements the residence principle, and the ownership principle, which ensures effective enforcement of the law. this is a financial transaction tax which can safely be introduced at eu level, or by certain member states, without significant risk of relocation. let us keep in mind that the cost of relocation will be much higher than the cost of compliance, due also to the very low rates. let me underline that the clear precondition for an effective financial transaction tax is its wide scope, covering all transactions without exemptions. exempting institutions from the scope of the tax could pose systemic risks and encourage risky strategies. exemption would open the door wide to tax avoidance. dear colleagues, i call on you to support by a large majority this tax, without exemptions, because it is one of the fairest and most effective tools we have to exit the crisis and ensure that it does not happen again, and also because i believe that it is now time to give substance to our claim that the financial sector should be at the service of the real economy.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs podematias, the shadow rapporteurs and all those who contributed with their amendments and their work to the report you are proposing today. i would like to believe that this report will be a positive contribution by the european parliament to the fight against speculation and to the issue of supervision and financial sector consolidation. at the same time, it would be desirable to reach the broadest possible agreement in the context of the coordination of fiscal and budgetary policies and to include this tax there, in order to avoid distortions in the single market, although, as we all know, such an agreement is difficult to reach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial sector is not left behind. it is an objective of the union which i consider very important. we must also see to it that the much-discussed development of the present time, which the union so badly needs, is not impeded. i therefore support the amendment to exempt investment funds and also pension funds. finally, i want to talk about the issue of resources. it has always been my notion and i have linked this tax to resources and to their availability. i believe that this is an opportunity for the union's own resources to have a source and for this tax to be used to give the impetus needed for growth in europe. it's a moment of creation and we must seize it.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, minister, i want to thank you for your strong support for an eu ftt, which is an important signal to the member states. discussions in council continue, and i would like to thank the danish presidency for keeping up the momentum in the technical analysis and the negotiations process. at the informal ecofin council in march 2012, ministers agreed that work should continue on the commission’s proposal. on this basis, options which could gather a higher level of support in the short term should be explored. i welcome the presidency’s intention to have an orientation debate at the 22 june ecofin. in the meantime, i will continue to defend the broad-based ftt at eu level. this is what we need for fair taxation, a level playing field in the single market and to meet global challenges such as climate change and development. we heard a lot of arguments in favour of an ftt at eu level, and it is right. we also heard some concerns on specific points. the further technical work by member states’ experts will bring clarity and solutions and, of course, the commission will contribute to this work. let me emphasise one general point. the ftt will help to rebuild the relationship between the financial sector and the ordinary citizen, which has been greatly damaged in recent years. in helping to restore consumer confidence, and pointing the financial sector more towards the real economy, the ftt can become an important contributor to our growth agenda.
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly in order to be consistent in our position, let me remind you that in europe today there are already nine countries that have a form of ftt in place, including the most thriving financial centres in this continent. these jurisdictions are still major financial centres despite these taxes. that clearly means that a carefully designed ftt does not lead to relocation of financial institutions. secondly, some colleagues expressed fears about the negative effects of a financial transaction tax on growth, enterprises and households. the truth is that enterprises and households are suffering right now as a result of the financial crisis, caused by the financial sector because of high vat levels and high taxes on labour. regarding exemptions, i fully agree with commissioner šemeta that exemptions create distortions and room for loopholes. i would like to remind you that in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we reached a compromise provisionally exempting pension funds until the review of this directive. we did this in the spirit of compromise – a compromise which i regret is not yet in place – despite the fact that the ftt would have minimal impact on conservative funds. this compromise can better secure the pensions of europeans by incentivising them to follow prudent investment strategies. but if we were to suggest further exemptions on investment projects with risky investment policies that would not be in line with what we want to achieve. in conclusion, i would like to urge you to endorse by a large majority the report for a common system on an eu financial transaction tax. this would send a strong political message to the council – especially today since there is the informal summit of the european council on growth – and confirm that this house has been, and remains, consistent with the major policies and approaches that it has defended from the very beginning of this crisis.
in writing. regulation of this class of oil tankers at european level follows major natural disasters caused by oil spills from tanker wrecks, such as the prestige disaster in 2002. in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of pollution of european waters by hydrocarbons through the introduction of the double-bottoming system. in short, the eu proposes that cargo tanks should have a second inner casing, at a sufficient distance from the outer casing. this design will protect the cargo tanks from avarice and thus reduce this risk of pollution. it is clear that for greece, a country surrounded by the sea and through which a large number of oil tankers pass annually, this regulation is important. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. china's economic growth is directly dependent on the economic prospects and capabilities of its partners. this means that its own trade policy must respect the production base in europe and the corresponding european policies. the balance of trade between china and the eu is therefore an essential precondition for the smooth continuation of the chinese economy and for the return of growth to the european economy. the european community has therefore been demanding this reciprocity in trade between the two sides for a long time. the eu is calling on china to become, among other things, more import-friendly for the benefit of all. the report also notes that the eu urgently needs to implement a coordinated re-industrialisation policy, which greece should also take seriously, and should encourage the purchase of european products. it is not just a question of defending a model of social market economy, but of defending the european concept of development, democracy and human rights.
this court is in recess. the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on sudan and south sudan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up in the next few months.
mr president, the failure of the efforts so far to bring peace to the two sudanese states, and in particular the failure of the recent peace agreement, does not bode well for the chances of avoiding new conflicts that have been going on for decades and have resulted in the continued impoverishment of the two countries. the two countries are economically interdependent and therefore ways of cooperation must be found. to this end, both states must cease to support and encourage the enemies of the other side, as this makes the peace process more difficult. the weakening of sudan, due to its dependence on the south, may result in a weakening of its relations with its african neighbours and possibly in the strengthening of relations with arab and islamic countries and the rise of islamic forces. this is a matter which must be given special attention. sudan's economic situation has deteriorated significantly in 2012 due to the cessation of oil flow. the economy is thus expected to contract by 9.4% this year and inflation is also expected to soar to 19% in 2012 and to be on the rise. the european union must take account of these worrying developments and the high commissioner must act accordingly.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i notice broad agreement on the grave nature of the situation in sudan and south sudan. the human suffering is appalling and the lack of sufficient political will on both sides to resolve the outstanding issues must be addressed. the eu has invested heavily in stabilising the situation, and i fully agree with all the speakers who have urged the council to keep the situation in sudan and south sudan high on the eu agenda. the eu supported the sudanese peace process throughout the period of the comprehensive peace agreement of 2005, and sent two election observation missions to sudan and south sudan to observe the elections in 2010 and the referendum on south sudan’s independence in 2011. both were led by véronique de keyser mep, and i will use this opportunity personally to thank her for her commitment. ms de keyser, i have, of course, listened particularly closely to your most important comments, based on your experience. the eu will continue to support the work of the african union panel under the chairmanship of former south african president thabo mbeki. the eu, together with the rest of the international community, calls on the parties to implement the roadmap set out in un security council resolution 2046 and to resolve all outstanding issues. mr mbeki has announced that he is hoping to convene a meeting of the parties in addis ababa next week. we sincerely hope that this will lead to substantial progress as soon as possible, and i can inform this house that the eu will remain committed to fostering peace and security in sudan and south sudan so that all sudanese people will finally be able to benefit from the dividends they bring.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on guinea-bissau.
mr president, commissioner, the enormous number of speakers in today's debate shows that parliament really supports your initiative and really wants us to move in this direction. it is also logical that the average european citizen consumes 16 tonnes of materials. six tons of them end up in the garbage. the cost is enormous. i know that many colleagues react to these ideas, but i don't understand why. we have the problem of a huge economic crisis before us, which we will not be able to solve by simply - not to say at all - cutting low wages and pensions. we must stop importing products and materials that end up in our waste. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
madam president, once again we are talking about the same and the same. we talk about unemployment, but nothing goes. the numbers still prove it. one in five young people under 25 in europe is unemployed. in greece, one out of two young people is unemployed, and the statistics are getting worse. in my view, this shows that we have to look very carefully at both the programmes, the way they are financed and the flexibility we are showing in terms of absorption, particularly by member states that are having problems because of the austerity packages that are being imposed on them. i am afraid there is life outside this chamber of parliament. when i asked an unemployed young man in greece, "tell me what to say in this debate that will take place in parliament", he looked at me and replied ironically, "you must say nothing because you have never been unemployed, so you cannot understand what it is to want to create a life, a family, and not be able to".
madam president, commissioner, once again, what you have announced today is very important and we shall be looking forward with great interest to the findings of the working parties in the eight countries. we already know some things, but we expect much more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are of course talking about the danger of a lost generation because there is a deeply disappointed generation of young people all over europe. but at the same time we also say in our texts that in certain sectors we need a workforce that comes from legal immigration, because we have no skills in europe and because we have a severe demographic problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. should we be re-adjusting policies? how difficult is it to reconcile this huge problem of the lost generation that we are in danger of having, all these young children, with unemployment in spain and greece at 50% and above and with very bad figures in other countries, with what we say on the other hand, that we need in certain areas? how hard is it to do that?
the first item on the agenda is the report by mrs edit bauer, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women workers for equal work or work of equal value (2011 2285).
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions. i can assure you that they will be noted, including the more critical comments. the gender pay gap is a complex phenomenon and goes far beyond the issue of equal pay for equal work. as you know, and as illustrated by the life-cycle approach to the problem, there are various factors that can explain this inequality between women and men. in addition to undervaluation and horizontal segregation, women and men’s choices of studies and careers are often influenced by traditional stereotypes. this leads to gender segregation in labour markets, where female-dominated occupations are undervalued; to vertical segregation, whereby it is more difficult for women in the labour market to reach higher positions; to inequality in the burden of caring, or, as one speaker rightly put it, different private-public alignment of lives; and, indeed, to direct discrimination within the same job. the consequences are lower pensions and, as was mentioned, a higher risk of poverty for women than for men. obviously, this should not be acceptable in the 21st century, at least not in europe. so the problem deserves all our attention, and i agree with the rapporteur, ms bauer, that we need a holistic, multi-level approach. yes, we need legislation, but we also need implementation of the legislation. yes, we need public awareness campaigns, best-practice sharing, better statistics, better information and more research. we are working in all these areas and we need the efforts of all the stakeholders to achieve solutions. let me reiterate that the commission intends to present a report to parliament on the application of the 2006 directive, reviewing the operation of that directive with a specific focus on the application of the principle of equal pay in practice. obviously, this will be informative for future steps. the commission is constantly monitoring whether the existing legal framework is being correctly applied in practice at national level. it is our job to do this for all types of legislation, and it includes considering whether member states are applying the appropriate sanctions as required by the directive. we are also preparing a study assessing several legislative and non-legislative actions to tackle the gender pay gap, and that will feed into the implementation report on the 2006 directive. it is scheduled to be published in 2013 but the exact date of publication has not yet been determined. i would also like to mention, in answer to some of your questions about the introduction of quotas for women on company boards, that the public consultation on this issue is currently running until the end of may. the results of the consultation will then feed into the decision on whether to introduce legislation. to conclude: the bauer report sends clear and important signals, and the commission appreciates the support of this house in tackling this challenging issue. we all agree that equal pay is no longer just a matter of fairness: it is also a necessary condition from an economic point of view. the commission counts on the support of the european parliament to make further progress and successfully tackle the gender pay gap.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 24 may, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the oral question to the commission on swiss quotas in the number of residence permits issued to citizens of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary by: rafał trzaskowski, andreas schwab, simon busuttil, josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, elmar brok, csaba őry, jacek saryusz-wolski, romana jordan, róża gräfin von thun and hohenstein, iáll gólócz-pel, małgorzata handzlik, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. heide rühle, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the rapid adoption of this framework regulation is vital for third countries facing balance of payments difficulties. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the need for a formal legal instrument to regulate the granting of financial assistance to third countries quickly and effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. in that time, the data has changed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i would like to say at this point that it is necessary, among other conditions, to link the provision of this financial assistance closely to human rights and democratic institutions. in many cases we have seen financial assistance given to countries with a questionable attitude towards these values. i therefore believe that it is essential for the union to remain firm in its commitment to strengthening democratic institutions, human rights, transparency and the fight against corruption. therefore, each country applying for macro-financial assistance should be assessed for the above as well. the role of the external action service is also essential here in order to avoid having in the future cases like the one we have recently experienced in ukraine. i would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for his detailed report and to say that my group, the socialist and democratic group, fully supports his views. i hope that the council will agree with parliament's position on this matter. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer blue card the situation of the country receiving aid is of course of particular importance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
in writing. the eu's macro-financial assistance (mfa) has been in operation since 1990 and is designed to provide assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. to date, more than 20 countries have been helped with loans or grants totalling more than eur 7 billion. however, the european parliament has recently called for a specific framework regulation on the mfn and the commission has responded to this request, which seeks, inter alia, to create a formal legal instrument and a more efficient and streamlined decision-making process in this area. the commission proposal does, however, have some gaps and confuses certain actions, for example by allowing the imf to be involved in these actions to such an extent that it effectively reduces the eu to a subsidiary role. the present report highlights these points and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i believe that in our time it is unacceptable to discriminate against people on the basis of their sexual orientation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat homophobia, including the introduction of a european anti-homophobia law. the fact is that each country in europe has its own culture and its own pace of adaptation and development, and so we cannot impose exactly the same laws on all countries without exception. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote equal opportunities for men and women in the european union, including the creation of a european network of equal opportunities for women. europe must set a good example to the world, especially to countries where homosexuals are often sentenced to death.
in writing. the unprecedented economic crisis europe is experiencing is, among other things, a danger signal for the future use and exploitation of its resources. our planet is expected to reach 9 billion people, and according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao), food production must increase by 70 percent by 2050, while 60 percent of the world's ecosystems are being degraded or used in unsustainable ways. it is clear that europe and with it greece certainly need a new agenda and policy for the future development model. to do this requires not only technical but also political and institutional changes in the member states. the european parliament, in this report, which i voted in favour of, considers it its duty to stress the need for member states to take initiatives by setting specific and prioritized priorities in this direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 'opportunities for young people' initiative in the hope that this time the european commission and the council will take the necessary action to implement all that we have consistently voted for. the european citizens are tired of reports and resolutions without reaction. they want to see action and play. in my country, greece, youth unemployment is approaching 50%. as i have myself emphasized on many occasions, i am pleased that the initiative includes the proposal to promote the labour mobility of young people throughout the eu in order to fill vacancies in countries facing a shortage of skills and labour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the fact is that the gender pay gap as a phenomenon still exists. the latest official eurostat figures confirm the gender pay gap and show that the pay gap ranges between 4.4% and 27.6% in the member states, despite the numerous legislative provisions in force on the subject. the proposals for a regulation on the introduction of job evaluation systems free of racial prejudice and discrimination, and the creation of a single action guide to be consulted by companies and member states for the determination of the value of work and the comparison of occupations, must be put into practice immediately. it is a primary concern of each member state to apply both the new and the old principles of equal pay for men and women in order to speak, in the year 2012, of work of equal value.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all an answer to some technical questions which have been asked. there was a question on whether food security ngis were included in the scoping. the answer is yes, food security is covered by the eu rules on sanitary and phytosanitary issues which themselves are part of all eu free trade negotiations. the same applies to geographical indications; specifics of course will be addressed during the negotiations. there was also a question on mutual recognition of organic produce. recognition of eu organic foods in japan is one of the early deliveries on our ntb list so this problem is being rectified and will be solved in practice before any negotiations start. the second set of questions are about the role of inta in these negotiations. i believe that in the case of japan the european parliament has been duly informed that we were about to propose that the council authorise negotiations, first orally by myself and director-general demarty in the inta meetings of april and may respectively, and secondly in writing by jean-luc demarty through an e-mail to inta chair moreira on 17 april. also director mauro petriccione debriefed the japan monitoring group of inta in may on the state of play of the scoping exercise and the european parliament now has an opportunity to give its views on this resolution. the commission has fully lived up to the commitments under the framework agreements. by the way, the inta members have received the result of the scoping exercise but it is a restricted document which cannot be sent to all members of parliament. there were also a number of questions requesting that the commission should wait to start the negotiations until the european parliament has formally taken a decision. the procedure is that we have to propose negotiating directives to the council. the council has to decide upon those negotiating directives. it is up to the council to decide when they give such a mandate to the commission. i hope that you are able to come forward with a detailed resolution before the council takes its decision. of course the agenda is within your hands, within the hands of inta and the plenary, but i would suggest that if you could come up with a resolution by september then probably you would be in time to influence the debate in the council. questions were also asked on whether parliament should not be part of the negotiating delegation. i am against that: parliament is not made to negotiate; parliament is made to debate, to come forward with resolutions, to make proposals and ultimately to vote on the ratification of the free trade agreement that will possibly be concluded with japan. that is what is in the treaty and i think it is very important for all institutions that we keep to that treaty. nowhere, by the way, does a parliament negotiate free trade agreements. you will of course make reference to the united states, where the government can only go forward when there is a fast track, but when you look at the practice you will see that, unless there is a fast track the american congress does not conclude the agreements. the whole idea that you have an agreement and then start introducing amendments can never work; it simply does not work, it has never done so in the past and will not do so in the future either. now on the whole topic of the scoping and how we go forward, i believe there are two very important points. in the scoping, i think we have covered all items which you would normally cover in a broad free trade agreement. on top of that we have asked the japanese to give a solution on a number of non-tariff barriers. recently they have come forward with a proposal on those non-tariff barriers and we have observed that this is a satisfactory answer – provided, of course, that it is honoured in practice. that is why i have also told the foreign affairs council on trade that our idea is to come forward with negotiating directives whereby we give the japanese a year to deliver on these promises. they cannot deliver immediately because legislative and administrative instructions have to be changed. on the other hand it does not make sense to negotiate if they do not deliver. japan being a friendly country – a democracy by the way, one of the biggest in the world – i think you realise that politically it does not make sense to tell them: look, now deliver on all of these non-tariff barriers and then within a year we will see whether or not we will start negotiations. you do not do that. the only right political approach is to say ok, we have started negotiations, those are the promises which you have been making, we are going to check this within a year and then we will make our decision on whether or not we continue with the negotiations. a second and very important element which we have very clearly stated is that whenever we do something about tariffs they should do something about the ntbs so that there should be a parallel in the approach of dismantling trade impediments: on the one hand tariffs and on the other hand, the non-tariff barriers. we will keep to that very strict parallelism also in negotiations. my last remark, mr president: we are now discussing whether or not we should start the negotiations with japan; we are not discussing whether or not we agree with the result of a negotiation because there is not a negotiation yet. it is very extraordinary to ask a country you want to negotiate with, and that wants to negotiate with us, to deliver on a certain number of topics before you even start negotiations. normally you do not do that; it is quite extraordinary. what you cannot ask the commission is to say look, now first deliver; take another year and then we will see whether or not we agree to even speak to you. that you cannot do; that we will not do so we are going to go forward with our proposals to the council and then of course it is up to the council to decide on the negotiating mandate.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 june 2012 at 11.30.
the next item is the report by mr christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences (com ((2011) 0241 c7-0116/2011 2011/0117 cod))
the european union is not a political union, but a political union. more and more european citizens are either distancing themselves from or becoming indifferent to a united europe. extremist, nationalist and anti-european forces are entrenching their political presence in more and more european countries. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if this trend continues, we will have a nightmarishly different european parliament here in 2014. that is why this trend must be stopped, and the recipe is one: not only strict budgetary discipline but also growth; not unemployment but jobs. this is a gamble that must be won by the whole of europe, but above all by those who today have an undoubtedly european leadership. these countries and these powers have assumed a great historical responsibility. the european union must not continue to be what it seems to be. we cannot allow such forces to win the minds and hearts of the citizens of europe.
the council of ministers' decisions on the schengen question last thursday, mr president, have provoked a great deal of discussion and reaction. i shall not stand by the change in the legal system, which will be discussed in detail here in the house tomorrow morning. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the council's decision to extend the schengen agreement to greece, which is not mentioned in the council's text, is a good example of the need to strengthen the schengen area. there is no relevant report that could lead to such a conclusion. but this feeling has been created and of course the wrong impressions send the wrong messages and misunderstandings do not allow us to adequately ensure the security of the union's external borders. we hope that only through solidarity policies will this happen, and that with a new government in the country from 18 june with the new democracy playing a leading role in it, new and more measures will be taken to curb illegal immigration flows. but we need to have a response from europe.
i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr scurria, on his excellent report and the very good work he has done both during the european year of volunteering and now with this report. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would add to what has been said that, despite the measures we are proposing and despite the efforts made so far, the disparities in voluntary participation between member states remain large. in austria and the netherlands we have about 30% voluntary participation, but in the countries of the european south this falls below 15%. the same applies, of course, to the contribution of volunteering to the gdp of each country. in those countries where we have a high participation rate, the contribution to gdp can be as high as 5%, while in the low-income countries it can be as low as 0.3%, in countries where there is not a high participation rate. so to those who, in addition to the joy of participation and creation that volunteering offers, say that because of the crisis we should reduce volunteering, we say that on the contrary, volunteering can make a real contribution in this area as well.
mr president, commissioner, as we all know, this debate on the two new regulations is taking place at a very critical time for europe, for the future of the european project, for the future of the euro, and also at a very critical time for certain member states of the euro area which are already implementing adjustment programmes, and among them in particular greece, because of the very crucial elections next sunday. the two regulations cover, first of all, a very important institutional gap, because, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of common european rules in the design and evaluation of adjustment programmes has led in some cases to doctrinaire, inflexible approaches, blind to the economic and financial situation, which made the achievement of the objectives, if not impossible, extremely difficult and, finally, coupled with certain internal weaknesses and omissions, affected the very credibility of the adjustment programme and the chances of success. in this sense i would like to thank in particular the two rapporteurs, jean-paul gauzès and elisa ferreira, because the compromise reached in the committee on economic and monetary affairs introduces some such basic rules, which are currently absent from the adjustment programmes implemented at least by the greek adjustment programme, and i am referring, by way of example, to the possibility of changes to the programme, taking into account negative spillover effects and macroeconomic and financial shocks. i also refer to the monti clause on the need to respect the rules and practices governing industrial relations in the union and, of course, the obligations of the state in the context of the strategy for growth and employment. ladies and gentlemen, at this extremely crucial juncture for my country and for europe, the european parliament's proposals give substance to the concept of solidarity and are the best answer to the populism and the complaints that the greek people are facing in the elections next sunday.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mr. hannan, may i? you are here, you have been given the job of explaining the reasons for voting, but you are permanently off the subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would therefore urge you to be on point even in this last speech. otherwise, the pointless monotony is meaningless. sorry to interrupt. keep going.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and welcome the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the floods in liguria and tuscany, which in october 2011 caused significant damage to housing and agriculture and also caused the disruption of main transport links and essential public infrastructure. the priority now is to restore as soon as possible normal living conditions for the people affected by the floods and to speed up the recovery of economic activity in the areas concerned. the eu solidarity fund is once again demonstrating its importance in responding to major natural disasters by providing financial assistance to the affected states. however, i cannot but regret that it took eight months after the floods hit the areas in question for the mobilisation of the fund to be completed. the three institutions should therefore work to make the operations of the solidarity fund faster and more flexible. in this way we will be able to ensure the real added value of the instrument in question.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support workers made redundant, particularly in regions and sectors that are disadvantaged by the opening up of the globalised economy. the committee's rules provide that a maximum of 0.35% of its annual amount may be allocated each year to technical assistance. the commission requested eur 1,12 million for 2012 for this purpose. the council proposed reducing the amount of technical assistance requested to eur 730 000, on the grounds that the future of the egf in the next multiannual financial framework remains unclear. although the european commission and the european parliament accepted the council's proposal, we should make it clear that the negative consequences of globalisation, combined with the continuing economic crisis, are further highlighting the added value of the egf as an instrument of eu social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. in addition, the support provided is a practical expression of eu solidarity.
in writing. as technology increasingly permeates everyday life and as minors and vulnerable groups are exposed to it, cybersecurity must be a critical political priority in the european union. the set of european initiatives, such as the digital agenda, the european programme for the protection of critical infrastructure (evici), directive 2008/114 and the communication 'protecting europe from cyber-attacks and large-scale disruptions' include efforts to increase cybersecurity in the union. the report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission and the member states to take all the necessary initiatives to ensure that technological development is combined with the creation of the appropriate protective framework to prevent rather than suppress safety problems.
in writing. energy is one of the most important conditions for creating a climate of economic growth and prosperity in the eu, and therefore in greece. in addition to the potential of each member state to exploit its own land and its alternative sources, the security of supply of the eu is still very much dependent on external sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. weakness because it does not ensure energy self-sufficiency, advantage because as the world's leading energy importer it can negotiate with suppliers on good terms. in any event, while ensuring reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supplies, it is of great importance for enhancing europe's competitiveness and security to make the best possible use of the member states' own resources, means and reserves. the report is moving in that direction, and i voted in favour of it.
the european union is a democratic society, and it is not just a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. we are living in a time of great change in many countries with which the union wishes to maintain good relations, and so more than ever we must protect and promote our values, which are respect for man and human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity. the appointment of the special envoy will help to make the external action service more effective in the field of human rights, because the special envoy will be able to act quickly and directly. it is therefore necessary to give him a clear mandate for the scope of action, in order to avoid confusion among the relevant departments of the institutions as to who is responsible. it is also necessary that the period of appointment may be extended if the authorised representative demonstrates his competence. the person selected must have demonstrated in practice through his or her work in the field of human rights that he or she has the capacity to be a credible interlocutor in all directions.
madam president, madam vice-president, the defence and protection of human rights is the basis for the establishment and functioning of democracy, for social peace, for coherent development, for sound international relations, and is therefore rightly a cornerstone of the union's external policy. the instruments we have so far - political dialogue, trade agreements with human rights clauses - have proved inadequate. i therefore welcome the initiative to appoint a special envoy for human rights and support the recommendation of parliament to the council. i think it will give visibility and coherence to our policy. the human rights expert must be able to work independently and to work in close cooperation with the relevant authorities, civil society and other international and regional organisations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i believe that it will be a good choice. we see the importance of protecting human rights in the arab states for good relations and peace in the world. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the convention. i believe that it is time to give a coherent and effective response, and the appointment of this new institution will help to achieve this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i will be brief, as i know we have many debates to complete this evening. can i first of all thank all honourable members for their comments. all of them are important. secondly, can i say that i was clear, i thought, in my response that the european union special representative (eu sr) will report to the institutions as defined in the treaty. i made the point because – exactly as honourable members are right to point out – it is important that we stick to the obligations that we have. in addition, i pointed out that the political accountability statements i have made also give the opportunity for parliament to engage. far from running away from it, i was making the point that we need to stick to the obligations that have been made, and i know that any special representative on human rights will wish to ensure that they have a strong relationship with the european parliament, as indeed they will wish to have with the council and of course the commission and across the services. but i do draw honourable members’ attention to article 33 of the treaty. thirdly, on the specific point on what is happening in regard to the icc (international criminal court), you will not be surprised to know, mr howitt, that we are in touch with them on the ground through our delegation and for the moment we are working with them closely. in terms of the representations that honourable members have made about the issues and countries of greatest concern; i have taken note of all of them. it is important that we are consistent. it is important that we speak up seriously and properly on the issue of human rights. i have said many times that the only criteria for human rights to apply to any one of us is for us to be human and here. we have to make sure that that is the principle that we carry forward in all of the work that we do. i thank honourable members again. we will improve again on the work that we have done on this report. the translation will be ready within the next couple of weeks but i do apologise that it is not available as it should be.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the negotiations on the un arms trade treaty (2012/2636 ((rsp))
madam president, the legal vacuum and the anarchy that exists in the absence of an arms trade treaty have tragic consequences, cause human misery and betray the european union's commitments to promoting the rule of law, human rights and peace in the world. we therefore strongly support the need for a comprehensive, legally binding and robust treaty covering all aspects of the trade in conventional arms, including small arms, hunting weapons and their ammunition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the treaty is fully applied. without transparency, the practical implementation of the treaty cannot be ensured, nor can there be progress in combating the corruption that often accompanies the arms trade. the original text of the resolution we are discussing today contained good references to this, but these were removed by amendments by the people's party. we hope that the european parliament's plenary will reconsider this position and send a strong message of support for the establishment of a binding arms trade treaty, a message of crucial importance in the run-up to the crucial united nations conference next month. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east.
vpc/hr. − madam president, it is very important to have this opportunity to exchange views with parliament on the important issue of the arms trade treaty. i do very much value the continued support of parliament for the work that is going on in new york to prepare for this very important conference. let me reassure honourable members that we know the difference between the responsibilities and role of the member states and the responsibilities and role that we have. but, as honourable members will notice, it says arms trade treaty and, of course, on trade and csdp matters we do have commitments that we need to make sure are fully in line with the work that member states are doing, and indeed the work that member states would wish us to do. i would also argue, as i do consistently, that there is strength in collaboration between the 27 member states, and the ability to work together can provide additional strength, particularly when we are trying to deal with something which will be significantly important and, i would argue, quite delicate and difficult to negotiate. we work closely with our member states to achieve that. with regard to the comments on the eda – they do not have responsibility for this. the eda, the european defence agency, has responsibility for collaboration between member states, and i meet with them many times in various locations.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 13 june 2012. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the following is a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on recent developments in the middle east, including the situation in syria [2012/2672 ((rsp)) ]
mr president, we are talking about growth in europe, but there is no time for other words and promises. we urgently need decisions and action, and european decisions, because we will not be able to get out of the crisis, as its very development indicates, without a strong, targeted and coherent european response. the president of the european commission said in his speech that greece must remain in the euro and must keep its commitments. i fully agree and i reply that greece wants to remain in the euro and will keep its commitments to consolidate public finances, to make profound structural changes in the economy and the state. but if that is our common objective, then to succeed we must jointly reject both the dogmatic approaches that bring the economy and society to its knees and, of course, the populist approaches that falsely promise easy solutions and call into question the essence of the rules governing the european union. greece and the whole of europe must isolate dogmatism and populism, because it is the only way to move forward together.
the european union is facing critical challenges: economic, demographic, social and environmental. member states are facing unprecedented external migratory pressures. the union's place in the world economy is being tested. the solution is more europe, that is to say, the strengthening of the common: common european policies, with obvious european added value. the european economic governance and economic and social union are urgently needed. the multiannual financial framework should be a powerful and effective tool for the recovery of the european economy, sustainable growth, job creation, investment stimulation, the promotion of research and innovation, and the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion. the need for coherence between objectives and european financial instruments, the framing of the europe 2020 strategy with a strong multiannual financial framework. for example, the further contribution of the agricultural sector to the production of public goods for the benefit of the citizens of the union requires a strong cap budget. ambitious objectives require the necessary financial means. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue card". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a sad reality for my country. greece needs a comprehensive programme plan for its development. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the people of europe are not left behind in the process of democratic transition. greece needs above all political leadership and decisive action, which has been lacking in the greek system of governance. this is the june 17th ballot; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union.
in writing. we understand the budgetary constraints of the member states, we insist that the eu's long-term budget is a strategic tool for investment, boosting growth and competitiveness and, of course, for job creation across europe. the commission's proposal is to make the european union more competitive in the world market. this policy is the only pan-european development policy and as such should remain available in all regions of europe. cohesion policy is the main part of the response to the crisis, as it makes a decisive contribution to growth and job creation. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the commission proposal is not the minimum for us on cohesion policy. if we want to achieve growth, as cohesion policy is a development policy, if we want to find effective responses to the crisis, then we need the resources to achieve it. for cohesion policy, the minimum is the current level of funding, as clearly decided in the sure report. we do not advocate an increase in the budget for cohesion policy, but by maintaining the current level of budget and with a modern, thematically targeted, and results-oriented cohesion policy, we will achieve much more.
madam president, for the stability of our common currency and the credibility of the euro area, with a view to sustainable growth and employment, budgetary discipline is essential. the gauzès and ferreira reports reinforce this framework, and in particular the preventive aspect. the current eurozone crisis demonstrates the importance of preventing member states' budgets from going off the rails. the new democracy group therefore voted in favour of these reports. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 respectively. the creation of the development fund is also very important in these amendments. it is time, it is urgent, for ambitious policies and instruments at european level to boost investment and development initiatives and to give multiplier value and stability to member states' initiatives and policies to achieve higher growth and employment.
member of the commission. - mr president, i was very pleased with the proposals that were made and the questions that were put to us, and with their quality. once again, this first debate that president lehne has called for, the resolution, the work that i have confirmed to you, quite ambitious, on this action plan, all of this will make it possible to respond to the many interventions that have been made. i would like to thank mr zwiefka and mrs wikström for their encouragement - i understand - to be ambitious and comprehensive. mrs regner raised two points, as did president lehne. the 14th directive, i'm not going back on it. i told you about the reassessment we're doing, and possibly the new proposal we're going to make. mrs regner, you have raised a point which mrs steinbrück also raised earlier, and which is a sensitive one, namely worker participation. the protection of workers - the word 'worker participation' - is an issue to which i have personally, in the context of my political commitment, been very attentive for a long time, as you yourself, mr president, are a sensitive subject. it is clear, moreover, that this is the subject, mrs regner, on which the text on the spe is currently being blocked. i hope that it will be unblocked and, in any case, i have confirmed to you that i am prepared to support, if a sufficient number of states agree, a proposal for enhanced cooperation which would make it possible to move forward on this subject. mrs andersdotter has mentioned taxation. of course, when we talk about companies, about a level playing field, about the single market, we can see that these tax inequalities or sometimes tax competition within the same market are among the key points. that is why i thank you for noting that in the single market act, which we have just discussed and which we will discuss again in september, there is a chapter on taxation, which my colleague mr šemeta has proposed along with energy taxation, the harmonization of the basis of taxation of corporation tax and also the financial transaction tax. mr stoyanov referred to national and sometimes regional specificities. i am trying to take account of these particularities in all the legislation we propose, until the moment, mr stoyanov, when the single market is called into question. you cannot ask me to do anything else in my role as commissioner for the internal market than to remove fragmentation, to allow fair and equitable openness in trade between companies - that was the point mr paška was making - and to facilitate crossborder work, trade and communication. i take account of the particularities, but my rule and my mission is nevertheless to build, patiently and with you, the single market. mr iacolino, like mr stoyanov, referred to small and mediumsized enterprises. i have spoken a great deal about this and i would like to remind mr iacolino that in all the legislation we propose, and this will be the case for company law, i try to take account of the particularities. this is a cross-cutting feature: 21 million european enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. i know that the growth we expect, which we must rebuild, will not come from decrees or speeches, but from the territories and small and mediumsized enterprises, provided that we promote, through our laws and by simplifying our texts, the most favourable ecosystem for small and mediumsized enterprises. i can confirm to you, mr baldassarre, that the action plan we are preparing will support this very ambitious and very difficult project of codifying company law and we will also deal with the issue of diversity, which i am working on in the boards of directors, but not only with my colleague mrs reding. mrs thein mentioned transparency. the project i submitted on transparency country by country and project by project, was well received. it is the subject of the work of your parliament and the council of ministers. why did i use both texts, mrs thein? because the transparency directive and the accounting standards directive allow for the treatment of listed and unlisted companies. our ambition, which is quite high - and i have seen that it has been well received, particularly in africa - is that 600 listed and unlisted companies should be obliged to say what they pay and to whom in the extractive industry and in the forestry sector. i am also careful not to increase the burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, as mrs thein has requested, but we have a duty to encourage transparency. it's a just cause. i thank mr bodu again - i said it earlier - for his report on corporate governance. i know his concerns about conflicts of interest. i also know your concern not to add to the burden, by unnecessary regulation that is my intention too. i'll always prefer the contract to the compulsion. but sometimes, as we have seen with the financial crisis, mr bodu, we are forced to build or rebuild a new regulatory framework where we had, excessively, deregulated and suppressed all forms of governance. i will not forget that we must not necessarily deal with these issues in this text on company law - i have also spoken about this with mr andor and my colleague mr šemeta - the question of employee participation, the question of employee shareholding and everything else that can create the conditions for greater social cohesion in the company. i believe, as you, mr president, probably do, that social cohesion is one of the keys to growth in business and society. i also say this to mr cofferati, who asked me about this. finally, i thank mr lehne, mr president, and the members of your committee for putting this matter on the agenda. i have now given you proof of the commission's determination. we shall now proceed rapidly and precisely with the preparation of this action plan.
the next point is the commission's statement on the targeting of a job-rich recovery.
mr president, commissioner, the employment package is good, but it has to reach the recipient in time. we lost two whole years. we have been shouting here in the european parliament that something must be done about employment. if we lose another two years before all that is said and all that is written is put into practice, i fear it will be too late. secondly, the labour market - let us be frank - is suffering because macroeconomic policies have failed, and we now have the crisis. this is something to consider, because according to eurobarometer, only in 2011 was the impact of the crisis dramatic. some simple numbers: one in five europeans, one in two greeks fear losing their jobs. additional numbers: five out of ten europeans, eight out of ten greeks fear that if they lose their jobs, they will not be able to find another job within six months. this is the reality, and so i come to you and i invite you to think about the issue of resilience, the issue of flexibility, not just in terms of work; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, competitiveness cannot be a matter for each member state individually, it is a matter for the whole of the european union, if we want a strong european union, a strong euro. so if on the one hand we are constantly hearing about wage cuts to improve competitiveness in some member states, i would also say the following: why should wages not be raised in germany, for example, to help other countries that are suffering to become more competitive?
mr president, commissioner, unemployment is a major european problem with painful consequences for social cohesion and the real economy of the union. each new measurement is a record high for many european countries and 45% of european citizens, according to the latest eurobarometer, are worried about the employment gap. the european union is facing a major challenge with employment being in a state of emergency. it is clear that the obsession with extreme austerity prescriptions in some countries has led to an unprecedented rise in unemployment. in my country, greece, one in four citizens is already out of the labour market, with longterm unemployment at over 55% and youth unemployment at 53%, condemning the most promising part of greek society to inactivity or emigration. at the same time, the deregulation of industrial relations has not only failed to contain employment but has instead recycled poverty and recession. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, i would like to point out that member states such as greece, which are financially supported, should in no way be excluded from the process of achieving the objectives of the european strategy 'europe 2020'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank you and the honourable members for this very rich discussion, which has been extremely constructive for me too and which sent very clear and concrete messages to the commission about the employment package and also the way forward – namely that we do not only have to produce a good document but we also have to take care of the implementation. that is what we are working on, on many issues, and not just on youth –where i am sure you are aware of the action the commission has already taken – but also with regard to wider employment policies. in that spirit, i will be meeting the social partners working group next week and will seek its cooperation on all the different aspects of the employment package. first of all, let me highlight the importance of many remarks concerning the wider context of employment policy, because you cannot detach employment from the wider economic landscape. one third of unemployment across the eu is a consequence of the crisis and in some member states it is about one half, or even more. so if we want to produce results in terms of job creation, we are strongly bound to the crisis response to the financial crisis, the financial sector, how to deal with public debt, how to deal with the private financial sector. the sooner there are proper solutions in those areas, the sooner we will have a better macro-economic environment in which to address employment policies too. it is also true that without this, we still have to go forward and find more direct solutions for job creation and to help the unemployed people. when we speak about the wider context it is important to point to the question of investment and the situation in the real economy. i fully share the views expressed by ms harkin on the importance of investment, and on the importance of industrial policy by ms schroedter and mr paška. the commission is working on reinforced industrial policy and, indeed, the human capital dimension of industrial policy, the capacity of regenerated industry in europe to create and sustain jobs, is absolutely fundamental. the employment package should be seen as a building block of a new economic paradigm. if you look at how wages or the role of demand is put forward in the employment package, or to give another example, the role of employment governance in the eu with the involvement of the social partners, i believe these open up new opportunities and the capacity to focus better on all levels and more efficiently on job creation and quality jobs. many of you – i do not need to list all the names – underlined the importance of helping young people, and we had a separate discussion on this last time here in strasbourg. i can tell you there is a lot of action taking place. i was in italy last week where structural funds have been substantially reallocated in order to benefit young people just in sicily, which is one region. the size of the reallocation exercise is close to half a billion euro, and this is not for the entire country but just for one of the regions where the situation is most serious. at the same time, we in the eight member states where youth unemployment is the worst are working on reallocation. the recent ongoing work to prepare the youth guarantee, on which i had the views of ms berès and others, should indeed produce a result in close coordination with the council before the end of this year. we will have opportunities to see whether our concrete solutions can match, to produce the best and most effective outcome. also before the end of this year, as envisaged in the employment package, we should produce the quality framework, on which there is ongoing consultation with all the stakeholders. the role of enterprise and microfinance was rightly stressed by mr bennion and ms mcintyre. this too is indeed a possible direction that is often forgotten, because the young generation may not be aware of the real opportunities in countries – let me mention italy again– where the previous generation was successful in running smes. this knowledge does not necessarily transfer to the new generation. once again this is a task for human capital building. once again the task is to spread the knowledge of enterprise and to support micro and small enterprises directly through better access to finance. within the world of enterprise, i think there was rightly an emphasis on the role of social enterprise. ms göncz, for example, stressed this in the context of social inclusion. i fully agree with making progress in this area in close cooperation with michel barnier, who spoke before me in the chamber. our dgs also work with the representatives of the member states. last week there was a seminar in brussels for member state representatives to promote social enterprise and the social economy in the general context in all member states; this also has a capacity for including disadvantaged groups in the labour market, such as people with a disability. finally, to support all these measures, whether for youth or for the social economy, we cannot avoid the question of the financial instruments. there is an ongoing debate in parliament and in the council on the next mff. we should not focus just on the current reallocations. we should also focus on secure funding for the financial instruments that can directly help the people. this is primarily the european social fund, which needs its secure minimum share, as you saw in the commission’s proposal. and i could not agree more with ms harkin concerning the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i think discontinuing the egf would be really problematic and i hope i can rely on the support of this house in the struggle to save the egf for the future.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 14 june, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr jános áder, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of certain dangerous substances in the manufacture of certain dangerous products (com (2010) 0781).
madam president, commissioner, we are discussing a very important directive. accidents involving dangerous substances are rare. but when they do, the consequences are tragic - tragic for the citizens of the region - and they are long-lasting, lasting for many generations. we have succeeded in improving the legislation, but there are some areas where we have not dared to do so. we have not dared to include, for example, oil rigs despite the tragic experience in many countries of the european union, despite the tragic experience of the accident in mexico and despite the tragic consequences both for the economy and for marine life and citizens. i think that many times citizens expect more from us, from all the european institutions, and i really hope that in future we will include the platforms and be more consistent with citizens' demands.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important step towards the achievement of the objectives of the directive. however, the internal rail market continues to present bottlenecks related to the lack of substantial transparency and effective functioning of the institutional framework. the final text of the new directive shields the institutional framework by clarifying the necessary separation of railway accounts and, of course, thus ensures transparency by obliging member states to draw up a railway development strategy, promoting the effective independence of national regulatory authorities and their network. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the european union can produce positive news here, mr president. the commission has already taken a number of positive steps towards the desired growth, towards better competition, towards serving the european citizens. the wording we are voting on tomorrow is undoubtedly such a positive step and i must thank the rapporteur and all those who have worked hard and for a long time to achieve this result. since 2001 we have been working towards a truly single european railway area. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a big and serious step forward, particularly in terms of adequate funding, transparency in the flow of funding, conditions of competition and we are all waiting to see the european regulatory authority. we therefore look forward to a more ambitious fourth railway package. as regards the polish amendment, i recognize the particularity and seriousness of the problem for polish colleagues, but at the same time i cannot but express my concern and concern given that we are in a second reading and we risk, if we delay further, going into the conciliation process and losing valuable time that we would need to gain.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this discussion. i am convinced that the proposed recast directive on a european railway area is a good deal after hard work, and i hope that you will vote in favour of the proposal. with regard to our objective, various mysterious, important and sensitive words have been repeated, but i will simply say that our objective is to create a fast and reliable cross-border railway system which can serve people and businesses. many barriers remain. the proposed, or intended, fourth railway package will propose additional steps towards taking down these barriers, including technological barriers which are very substantial. so let us not mystify matters. liberalisation is not a goal in itself: it is a part of the whole package. of course, i am happy to answer the honourable member – who has left the chamber – who asked about the money for investment. i hope that the whole house will support the connecting europe facility in the commission’s proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. it increases resources for railways substantially. so, yes, we have thought this out. the commission was also accused of forcing somebody to privatise railways. this has never been the case. the commission has never forced anybody to privatise anything. as regards the proposal for polish derogation, we are trying to create a single european railway area: we are not yet trying to create a single eurasian rail area. how can we achieve our objective with derogations, exemptions, exceptions, opt-outs and abstentions? these do not make our life any simpler. we have seven gauges in europe – seven – but we do not have special laws and special regulations for every gauge. this issue has been discussed in council, and in council the proposal was not supported. i hope that tomorrow the honourable members will not support amendments which perpetuate the fragmentation of european railways. of all transport modes, this is the most fragmented, and we must overcome the fragmentation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 3 july, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the monitoring apparatus in the road transport sector com ((2011) 0451 - c7-0205/2011 - 2011/0196 ((cod)) (a7-0195/2012)
mr president, the subject we are discussing today has two dimensions: the first is commercial and economic. the other is ethical. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we are putting the customs and customs officials to make the substantive decisions. i think we have to look at this very carefully, because there must be checks, they must be in accordance with the letter of the law, but at the same time there must be flexibility. the typical example where flexibility is required is in generic medicines. and so that we don't chew our words, and so that we say things as they are, i really want to emphasize that under the guise of counterfeit products large companies find the way, the opportunity or the window to stop generic medicines destined for african countries. we really have to look at this very carefully.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you for this very interesting debate. clearly the health and safety of consumers as well as the competitiveness of eu businesses are our common priorities. the commission proposal aims to strike the right balance between the strengthened enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) and the facilitation of legitimate trade, and i sense from today’s debate that these objectives are shared by members of this parliament. in addition, we have to be mindful of wider policy coherence, for instance vis-à-vis developing countries and international cooperation. the issue of so-called generic medicines in transit has been a tricky one. however, i believe we have carefully examined it and set out a solid course of action so as to reassure our stakeholders. many of you raised this issue today, and i would like to draw attention to a recent development in india, where the minister concerned stressed that issues with the eu around generic medicine no longer cause problems. so i think that we are working in the right direction and the wording of our proposal is very carefully balanced. i have also taken good note of your remarks on wider policy prospects such as the training of customs officers and information for consumers. not every aspect has its place in this particular regulation but your views are very timely as they can provide useful input for the ongoing review of the current multiannual ipr action plan. some of you asked when the changes in substantive law will come. i can inform you that the trademark review is scheduled for this autumn, and we will come forward then with new ideas. with regard to the breadth of the proposal’s scope and the issue of patents: of course we agree that patents are a complex issue and they have to be addressed very carefully. that is why we have proposed two types of procedure. for patents we propose legal procedures establishing infringements, and we draw a distinction between this question and that of counterfeited goods. the right place to address this issue is, i think, in a customs context, and the protection of patents is as important as the protection of other intellectual property rights. we cannot find answers to all the questions today. let us nevertheless hope that balanced solutions can be found quickly so as to ensure that the proposal is adopted by the end of this year in time for the 20th anniversary of the single market. i can assure you that the commission will do its best to support the process.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i wish firstly to thank mr seeber, as well as all the honourable members who participated in the development of this comprehensive report. this initiative is very timely as we are currently in the process of assessing possible options for our blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources, which we plan to adopt in november. as the report recognises, water policy is well developed and comprises very good legislation, such as the water framework directive, that can protect our water resources if adequately implemented. indeed, implementation will be an important focus of the blueprint, as we will try to put in place additional tools to make improvements on the ground. in this respect, i am pleased to see that our ideas converge, as the report focuses on issues such as the importance of water accounts, ecosystem services and minimum water flow for environment, water pricing and cost recovery. while these aspects are, to various extents, covered by our legislation, the results of our assessment of member states’ river basin management plans show that they are insufficiently addressed. the blueprint will propose ways of reaching a common understanding with stakeholders and member states so as to integrate these concepts better in the implementation of the water framework directive. implementation of the blueprint’s proposals will be supported by the innovation partnership on water, recognised in your report as a tool to help deliver win-win solutions for the environment and the economy: creating green jobs while finding innovative solutions to our water challenges. in addition to implementation, your report acknowledges integration as another major focus of action to be covered by the blueprint. in this regard the blueprint’s capacity to deliver on agriculture and cohesion policy depends very much on the agreement that parliament will reach with the council on the multiannual financial framework. the commission proposals have good potential for improving water efficiency and irrigation, increasing water metering, and promoting reliance on green infrastructures, such as flood plains, and wetland restoration or buffer-strip protection along riverbanks. our proposal on the common agricultural policy also clearly envisages the addition of the water framework directive to cross-compliance. the blueprint can translate the green potential of the commission proposals into concrete possibilities, but this will only happen if you and the council lend your support to the essence of the ideas that we have put forward. another major theme of your report that i would like to cover relates to addressing gaps in water policy. our assessments show that there are limited but important gaps that we need to fill. the two most important concern water re-use for agriculture and industrial uses, and water efficiency in buildings. the blueprint will propose ways forward, such as examining eu standards to facilitate the take-up of water reuse and the efficiency of appliances in buildings. any future proposal on this will, as usual, have to be subject to a thorough impact assessment. i am happy to see that you have identified the same gaps, as well as the necessity to improve our water infrastructure and reduce leakage. the blueprint will also address this, for instance by highlighting ways to remain within sustainable leakage level, and to finance water infrastructure through the cohesion policy. finally, with regard to global aspects, the blueprint will focus on ways of delivering on our rio+20 commitments, in particular in relation to the water-related millennium development goals and to a human right to drinking water and sanitation. of course we look forward to engaging with parliament in the follow-up work to the 2012 water blueprint.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. - the mr president, in my report on behalf of the committee on petitions, i had to include all the problems that have arisen with regard to water, water which is part of our existence. some of the problems identified in the opinion adopted unanimously are the uneven implementation of the framework directive, the adequacy of water resources, the sources of water pollution, the conflict with other european policies and the involvement of citizens at all stages of the procedures, as provided for in the framework directive, both in identifying problems and in finding appropriate means. the opinion places particular emphasis on the disposal of hazardous toxic and radioactive waste which is discharged into water and landfills, with a high impact on the environment and public health. but what i think is central is that water should not be a source of profit but, on the contrary, public ownership and management of water and water infrastructure should be ensured away from market rules. i'm sounding the alarm for upcoming developments. in greece and portugal, the troika is pressing for the privatization of water companies. we know from the past that where this has happened there has been an increase in tariffs, the water quality has not improved, there are court decisions, they have been re-nationalized. in greece, unfortunately, on the eve of the elections, the interim government sent the water companies of athens and thessaloniki to the privatization fund. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
madam president, here in the european parliament we certainly have interesting discussions, for example on the multiannual action programme of the european union in the field of health for the period 2014-2020. one of the central pillars of this policy is access to health services for all citizens. but unfortunately, at this time in greece, the health system is collapsing and the authorities are having great difficulty managing even basic health services. the crisis has led to a large increase in hospital care - by 30% - but health spending has been reduced by 20% or more. there are major shortages and cuts in medical and nursing staff. a large part of the citizens, a large part of the society remains outside the health system because of unemployment and restrictive policies. the green group's presidency recently delivered a letter to mr barroso asking him to take action and ensure that every person in greece, in these difficult living conditions of citizens, should live with dignity and have access to quality preventive care and the right to medical treatment. we believe that the commission has an obligation to review certain terms of the memorandum in order to make them compatible with european values and european policies.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, the decisions of the last european councils place particular emphasis on growth as a means of overcoming the budgetary and economic crisis. growth is the ultimate medicine. it will create wealth and jobs. it will contribute to the union's international competitiveness and enhance economic and regional convergence. this growth will be mainly driven by business initiatives and investment. this is the subject of the report we are discussing tonight, namely how the european union will attract foreign investment, strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit of europeans and create the right conditions for them to invest. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their valuable ideas which enrich my report, and also my colleagues on the other committees who have given their opinions and have made very useful comments and suggestions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the recent decline in this respect, the european union remains the world's leading investment destination, but given the risks posed by the financial crisis, which is depriving us of resources for investment, and the emergence of new competitive investment destinations, we must be prepared to protect the union's position and potential. we must act at the european, national and local levels simultaneously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to shield our banking system so that we can have liquidity in the market which is the main lever for investment. the european union must invest in its strengths. we need public and private investment in infrastructure, but also targeted social investment, to develop the human capital which is one of the union's key assets. we need to strengthen the single market, crossborder cooperation and the modernisation of the public procurement market. we must develop transeuropean networks, make use of the structural funds to make all regions attractive for investment in accordance with their comparative advantages. at international level, the union should continue negotiating multilateral or bilateral trade agreements, which will benefit trade and investment and the union's international position. it should also contribute at international level, as it already does for financial supervision, to the imposition of a tax on financial transactions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's competitiveness and investment attractiveness are safeguarded. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular the implementation of the european union's external action programmes, and to address fiscal and macroeconomic imbalances affecting international economic stability and affecting the union's development. we therefore call for investment to have a horizontal dimension in all union policies and in agenda 2020. we are asking for a european union investment strategy and a communication on this, commissioner, with indicators and parameters such as those being developed by the oecd, which will highlight the strengths and weaknesses and help us decide on the targeted interventions we need to make. it should not be overlooked that the development of european bond markets depends to a large extent on the expansion of the investment base. it is important to stress that investment policy must also be a key instrument in tackling the imbalances between the north and the south, the fiscal, economic and social imbalances. an innovative proposal is therefore to set up an 'investment observatory' within the european commission to monitor trends and developments in the attraction and impact of investment and to propose policies to boost investment in the member states and to promote the union as an investment destination in the modern world.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate mr alfonsi on the report he is presenting and on all the preparatory work he has done and the consultation with national and local authorities from the whole mediterranean basin, from the north and the south. it is really very important that we discuss a coherent macro-regional strategy because, without additional resources, it adds value to our national and european policies. i would like to stress the initiative for the adriatic-ionian macro-region, which is now well under way, and i believe that the commission will soon respond positively to the request of the countries of the region with a specific strategy that will provide the opportunity to develop initiatives and partnerships. it is important that this strategy includes a shipping dimension. i believe that this can be an example of good practice for similar initiatives in other mediterranean regions.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank mr alfonsi for his report on the evolution of the eu macro-regional strategies and in particular his interest in the eu strategy for the mediterranean. the commission is conscious of continued political interest in a strategy for the mediterranean, also keeping in mind the considerable political and practical difficulties. so the suggestion of the three strategies proposed by mr alfonsi – namely western mediterranean, eastern mediterranean, and central mediterranean including the adriatic and the ionian seas – is an interesting idea that needs to be further analysed. nevertheless, progress has already been undertaken as regards the adriatic and ionian region, in particular regarding its maritime issues. the commission continues to advise involved parties to draw lessons from the ongoing eu macro-regional strategies for the baltic and the danube, as well as a sea-basin strategy for the atlantic ocean. therefore the commission welcomes all initiatives for regions and countries to work together, either in the existing forms of cooperation or in macro-regional strategies if this is considered to be the most appropriate solution. the commission reminds members of the invitation made to the member states in the european council of june 2011 to continue work in cooperation with the commission on possible future macro-regional strategies. consequently, without prejudging the position of the council as regards any possible future macro-regional strategy, the commission is able to support progress which could be made in the framework of further mediterranean cooperation. regarding money, there are two aspects. firstly, the interested parties need a mandate adopted by council to form this region and to form the format and framework for this region. secondly, you will all be aware that the money is under substantial and intensive consideration and discussion in connection with the multiannual financial framework, where all members of parliament definitely play a part. so all future macro-regional strategies depend very much on the future of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. macro-regional strategies help to promote cooperation, enhance synergies with major community policies and create significant european added value and should be based on the principle of multi-level governance in order to ensure cooperation between local, regional and national actors. the establishment of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean will be able to help the participating countries to deal with the specific problems arising from the characteristics of certain regions: drought, marine pollution and tourist development. as regards island character, the european commission should implement a strategic plan addressing the transnational disadvantages of island regions and making island regions as competitive as those inland in order to reduce the gap between the different levels of development of european regions and ensure their effective integration into the single market. this can best be achieved by allocating the appropriate resources and adopting an integrated approach in the transport and energy sectors. moreover, it would be desirable for the commission to take a positive stance when examining state aid which is legitimate compensation in relation to the handicaps of insularity.
mr løkkegaard, you invoked the blue card and i gave you the floor. you ask the question. a blue card means you're asking a question of the previous colleague. it's not a catch-the-eye procedure, unless you picked up the wrong card.
in writing. the report on the danish presidency of the council of the eu in the first half of 2012 was welcomed by the eu institutions and the political staff of the monopolies in the european parliament. under the danish presidency, the anti-people regulations on 'strengthened economic governance' were promoted and made eu law, the 'financial pact' was signed, measures to abolish collective agreements, wage and pension cuts, and the raising of the retirement age in all eu member states. the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in syria and iran has been intensified to exploit the resources and the peoples of the region. this is the work of the danish 'left government'. promoting the interests of monopoly groups, capitalist restructuring and anti-worker measures across the eu, while demolishing what is left of labour, insurance and social rights, while poverty and misery increase daily. this is the usefulness of "left governments" and "left management" of capitalism for the plutocracy. to satisfy the demands and aspirations of the monopolies, in an environment of "social peace", of delusions and hopes that are crushingly denied, leaving the workers in bondage to fatalism, compromise, submission to the union of capital, hand and foot surrendered to the barbarity of capitalist exploitation.
the european council's decisions are certainly moving in the right direction, but there is still a great deal to be done before these general commitments can be translated into concrete, credible and effective decisions and actions. i would like to stress only two points: the first concerns the financial transaction tax. the european parliament would certainly prefer a decision to be taken at the level of 27 member states. but since this is proving impossible, we believe that the conditions and conditions must be created as soon as possible for those who want to and can go ahead, through enhanced cooperation, while respecting the basic features of this tax which should apply to as many financial institutions as possible and cover the widest possible range of financial transactions. the european parliament has supported the financial transaction tax and not the stamp duty. the second point concerns the decision taken by the european council to finally break the vicious circle between the banking sector and the debt crisis. this is a correct principle that should apply to everyone, regardless of the reasons that led to recapitalisation in the banking sector in each country. and i would ask you, mr president of the commission, to assure us today that this principle of equality and fairness will apply and that any country which is in a programme, if it is proved to be implementing it, can expect this equal treatment in this matter.
the european parliament, as is its custom, must say, as it always does, that it is not satisfied with the council's decisions: it wanted something more, it wanted to take a bigger step. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the debt crisis and the recapitalisation of banks, which seem to concern italy and spain in particular, are also important decisions. but these decisions must concern every country implementing the programme which has been agreed on equal terms, such as greece, since this would relieve my country of a very heavy burden of some 50 billion euros and would be fair and just towards the new government which will be called upon to implement the programme which has been agreed. the financial transaction tax is also important in tackling the problem, as is the use of enhanced cooperation, since there are some countries that do not want it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
in writing. the speeches by eu president van rompuy, commission president barroso and the statements by the presidents of the political groups and parties in the european parliament's plenary on the outcome of the eu summit once again highlighted the sharpening of the contradictions and the intensification of the struggle between the bourgeois classes of the eu member states. the eu and its institutions, the bourgeois governments of the member states - centre-left and centre-right - and the political representatives of the plutocracy in the european parliament were once again united in one thing: the war they have launched against the lives and rights of the working class and the popular strata in all the eu member states. the positions of all the political forces of capital and the euro-road were preachings of workers' submission to the anti-people policy implemented by the eu and governments to save the profits of the monopoly groups. they call for policy "mixes" that have in common the "architecture of competitiveness" - the profitability of the eu monopolies. the council's decisions to escalate the imperialist intervention in syria and iran have been met with silence, with all parties exposed to their imperialist plans, which pose enormous risks to the peoples.
in writing. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a government whose head, in a letter to his european partners, made it clear that greece intends to honour its commitments and obligations towards them. the greeks have demonstrated by their vote that they trust their allies in the eu and that they are committed to the european vision. i urge the commission to help the new greek government so that the country can regain its political and economic stability. it would therefore be very important at the next meeting to decide on a road map for greece which would allow the integration of greek banks into the esm (permanent european support mechanism) which is being set up.
in writing. the kke voted against the european parliament's report on the development of macro-regional strategies in the mediterranean, as it moves in the reactionary direction of strengthening the eu monopolies in the mediterranean basin. the proposal to create a macro-regional cooperation area in the adriatic-juni region is not about 'financing actions' to meet the needs of the working people in the region, but about deepening the single capitalist market in the islands, about supporting the large business groups with hot money from the community funds, that is, with workers' money. it strengthens the eu's political and economic intervention in the western balkans and north africa region using democracy and human rights as a pretext. the report, faithful to eu policy, does not propose aid with additional resources, but a targeted direction of financing to projects with a high return on capital, which, in addition to limited jobs, create temporary jobs that are lost when the projects are completed. once again the big monopoly groups will be the winners and the big losers will be the workers who are called upon to support and increase the profits of the plutocracy at their own expense
in writing. macro-regional strategies as territorial cooperation programmes supported by cohesion policy have delivered significant economic and development benefits in many member states, including greece. it is recalled that this type of cooperation has contributed, inter alia, to the modernisation and reform of our national road networks and has helped to develop an integrated maritime policy. it is clear that greece wishes to continue and strengthen these strategies as much as possible. the present report, which i voted in favour of, is moving in that direction and in fact places particular emphasis on the geographical area of the mediterranean, proposing, among other things, a separate macro-regional mechanism beyond the existing ones, the creation of which our country should seek, as it offers significant opportunities for economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean as a whole or in sub-regional areas as the ionian adriatic region is important for the development of these regions and for the implementation of adequate tools and measures to create european added value.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on macro-regional strategies which help to promote cooperation, strengthen synergies with major community policies and create significant european added value. these strategies should be based on the principle of multi-level governance in order to ensure cooperation between local, regional and national actors. the establishment of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean could help the participating countries to better address the specific problems arising from the characteristics of certain regions, drought, marine pollution and tourism development. as regards island character, the commission should implement a strategic plan addressing the transnational disadvantages of island regions and making island regions as competitive as those inland in order to reduce the gap between the different levels of development of european regions and ensure their effective integration into the single market. this can best be achieved by allocating the appropriate resources and adopting an integrated approach in the transport and energy sectors. moreover, it would be desirable for the commission to take a positive stance when examining state aid which is legitimate compensation in relation to the handicaps of insularity.
in writing. i voted against the report as i completely disagree with the attempt by the european council and all the political groups in the ep, with the exception of the gue/ngl, to privatise european railways. i strongly disagree with parameters that create the framework for layoffs of workers, for taking responsibility for safety and maintenance of railways by private companies, the privatisation process, and in a common european direction, will deprive the member states of the possibility of rationalising, modernising and upgrading the public railway networks in order to improve the services provided to citizens and increase public revenues. the full liberalisation of the railways, even under the indirect guidance of the european institutions, will in no way ensure their upgrading. on the contrary, competition from private enterprises will increase the risks of society itself ultimately bearing the costs of possible malfunctions.
in writing. it is a fact that the relatively slow progress in the negotiations between parliament and council on agreement on this directive is delaying a major reform initiative in the eu which has the potential to bring economic benefits to many member states, including greece. however, parliament does not intend to adopt a text which weakens the basic objectives of this directive, such as access to rail transport services, infrastructure financing, infrastructure charges and the powers of the regulatory body. the fact is that the parliament and the commission are adopting a more ambitious political stance and want the directive to be transposed into the national law of the member states as quickly as possible (within 12 months), in contrast to the council, which is seeking, as regards the entry into force of this new directive, 36 months for most of its provisions. the european parliament has therefore decided not to back down on these crucial points, a position which i supported by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. the report on the recasting of the single european railway area directive is pushing even harder for the privatisation of public rail transport in all eu member states and handing it over to the large business groups operating in the sector. the so-called eu 'third railway package' completed the splitting of the rail transport project by separating the infrastructure network from the main transport project. this has facilitated privatisation, since the profitable part of the transport project is sold off, while the infrastructure network with the costs involved remains in the public domain. the reform of the 'third package' seeks to remove all obstacles (administrative and technical) to privatisation, to complete the interconnection of the railway network in all member states and to promote the takeover of state-owned railways by monopoly groups, particularly in the strong capitalist eu states. the result will be a wave of redundancies and worsening working conditions for workers, skyrocketing prices for passengers and goods, and a deterioration in the quality of transport and railway safety. this policy has been implemented and is already being implemented consistently by the governments of nd, pasok in greece and by the previous and current coalition government.
in writing. intellectual property rights (ipr) are the eu's most valuable tool for supporting innovation, which is also a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. piracy and counterfeiting are estimated to cost european businesses €250 billion a year, which of course has a significant negative impact on jobs and economic growth in the member states. the present revised proposal for a regulation, which i voted in favour of, seeks to improve ipr legislation and in particular to better implement regulation (ec) no 1383/2003 adapted to new challenges such as the sale of counterfeits via the internet.
in writing. the kke group voted against the report because it promotes the commercialisation of water, which will have dramatic consequences for the poorest households and small and medium-sized farmers who will pay for water and irrigation. the commercialisation of water is a constant, essential concern of the european directives and a field of profitable activity for business groups in the european union and is not invalidated by any hypocritical references in the report to the characterisation of water as a public good. the report avoids mentioning the criminal obsession of the community institutions to maintain lethal concentrations of weakened chromium in drinking water (maximum limit of 50 μg/l), a problem of extreme gravity for health and the environment. on the issue of access to drinking water, 'welcomes the rapid achievement of the un millennium development goal on sustainable access to safe drinking water', despite the fact that the exploitative capitalist system deprives millions of people of the natural good of drinking water, with over two and a half million children dying every year and 800 million people still drinking unsafe water;
in writing. sustainable water management ensures that ecosystems in the member states receive sufficient quantities of quality water to function and provides security of access to food and water for all. for our country, which is facing issues of overgrazing, climate change and periodic droughts, this debate is becoming vital. it is clear that future economic growth will only be sustainable if it is decoupled from the adverse environmental impacts of water. the steps taken so far by the eu and the member states are not enough, however. the 'plan to protect europe's water resources', to be published by the commission in november 2012, aims to create a european water strategy that overcomes the shortcomings and omissions that have emerged so far. the european parliament welcomes the adoption of a more aggressive strategy in this area, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. the report, which i voted in favour of, concerns practical applications and actions to reduce road fatalities and increase the protection of european citizens. for greece, progress in the effort to identify and rescue road accident victims in good time through technology has added value, since my country together with romania had until recently the negative record of road accident victims (about 130 per million people per year). the practical value of the 112 service is also multiplied when an accident occurs in a remote, rural area where it is difficult for victims to inform someone of their location and condition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as in the event of a severe road accident, an ecall-equipped vehicle will automatically trigger an emergency call. i believe that it proposes positive measures for the reduction of the number of fatalities and the mitigation of the severity of injuries caused by road accidents.
in writing. − europe remains the largest regional destination for foreign direct investment (fdi). i voted in favour of this report as it proposes ideas and measures to promote the attractiveness of investing in europe including policy recommendations to member states targeted at enhancing the eu investment environment.
in writing. the report unfolds the eu's entire imperialist strategy on its eastern border with the eastern partnership (eap), through the trade relations the eu develops within it. the report focuses on the establishment and development of so-called 'deep and comprehensive free trade areas' (dcfta) between the eu and all countries and on 'protecting investment', i.e. the penetration of eu monopolies in all the acp countries. he's pushing all the oecd countries to join the wto. it called on the eu to step up its efforts to conclude free trade agreements (ftas) in an attempt to neutralise russian influence in these countries, reflecting the fierce competition between eu and russian monopolies in their quest to gain a foothold in the region's developing markets. it openly declares that the eu must use these teus to intervene politically in these countries, under the pretext of democracy and human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. are there any comments ?
thank you very much, mr. obermayr, we'll hold your remark. i would like to make a first comment on the fact that there is no particular problem with the distribution of leaflets outside the european parliament. we have not identified any issue that has arisen in breach of the rules of procedure in relation to this distribution. so, in principle, the bureau considers that there is no problem but i assure you that we will certainly look into it further. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved) )
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation by mr david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the trade agreement to combat counterfeiting between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and australia, canada, japan, the republic of korea, the united states of mexico, the kingdom of morocco, new zealand, the republic of singapore, the swiss confederation and the united states of america, of the other part (12195/2011 - c7-0027/2012 - 2011/0716 (nle)) (a7-020/2012)
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the madam president, we fully recognize and respect the need for artists to protect and reward their genius and the challenges that today's technology poses to achieve this. however, we must not accept, nor can we allow, the erosion of basic fundamental rights in europe and the rest of the world. the european union, and i want to stress this, has achieved a very high level of protection of fundamental rights and the european parliament must be at the forefront of trying to maintain this high level, always, for the benefit of european citizens. it is in this spirit that we came to the conclusion in our opinion that acta, particularly because of its strong ambiguity, is not compatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we therefore recommend that the house reject this controversial agreement. but i would like to stress this: the rejection of acta must not be the end. it must be the beginning of a real public debate involving all the stakeholders in order to achieve a modern social contract and copyright protection regime.
i am grateful to mr tarabella, but you know that parliament's rules of procedure do not allow questions to be put to the commissioners. your question was addressed to mr. fjellner?
member of the commission. − madam president, there are two parallel procedures as usual on the basis of our proposal for the 2013 budget and this is being done in the very specific climate of today’s europe. these are the fiscal consolidations seen as condicio sine qua non of sustainable development in europe and on the other hand, even at a time of crisis, the need for investment to create conditions for future growth and jobs. this was clearly stated in the conclusions of the recent european summit. i think that the answer as presented by the commission in the 2013 draft budget is the correct one and i think the mandate of parliament as expressed by the rapporteur, mr la via, is going in the same direction. we need restraint – that is clear – in administration; there are performance savings in the other areas, very restrained growth of commitment, 2% only at the end of the financial perspective but, on the other hand, we need a sufficient level of payments to pay out what is legally binding – what is financially and legally binding for 2013 – and this is the end of the financial perspective that cannot come as a surprise to anybody. at the end of the financial perspective the programmes are gaining maturity and the payments are accelerating, so the bigger need for payment. there is also the specificity of the 2013 budget; the n+2 rule and the n+3 rule means that we should pay at the latest in 2013 for the commitments from 2010 and 2011. meeting of the payment obligations is not my duty. this is a collective duty of the european union. i underlined the areas with the biggest growth potential – research, development and cohesion. deferring payments is not an option because it either results in a liquidity problem in the member states or a shortage of investment possibilities and increasing appeals for the future. that was clearly reflected in the discussion over the payment methodology agreed by the chair of the committee on budgetary control. perhaps that is a modest forecast for the future on the payment levels at the end of may. i think we see a lot of understanding of the logic of the multiannual financial perspective for the annual budgets at the end of annual perspective in the mandate as expressed by mr la via. what is coming on the other side, in the council, is a matter of concern. there is a propensity to cut, even though knowledge is widespread as to what the real needs are for 2013, as we are not basing our forecasts and our draft budget on our own assumptions. this comes from the member states – we are cutting. we are less optimistic than the member states themselves in shaping the level of payments for 2013. nevertheless, i believe that we are able to find interinstitutional cooperation. i have to thank the rapporteur for already making the indicative list of pilot projects and preparatory actions available and making implementation in 2013 easier. once more, i am confident that even under the specific extreme conditions of our time, we can find a proper way of dealing with the budget for the next year.
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. - the madam president, for another year the debate on the drafting of the budget of the european union has been taking place with the economic and social crisis putting to the test the budgets of all the countries, which are drawn up on the basis of rationalisation of public expenditure. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's cohesion policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. at the end of 2011 we had a significant number of late payments which had to be addressed by making sufficient payment appropriations available in 2012. payment shortfalls are likely to worsen in 2013, where implementation of cohesion policy programmes continues to accelerate. the european parliament, the commission and the council should therefore immediately carry out an evaluation analysis of the amounts and needs in order not to jeopardise the implementation of the 2013 programmes. we, as the european parliament, must oppose any reduction in the level of payment appropriations in relation to these needs.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the application of direct payments to farmers for 2013 - (com (2011) 0630 - c7-0337/2011 - 2011/0286 (cod)) (a7-0163/2012)
member of the commission. - mr president, i am pleased to see that there is very broad, almost unanimous support for the way in which the compromise has been found to get this regulation through as quickly as possible, which will allow us to grant these transitional payments. there has never been any question of not granting direct payments in 2013, but it is true that we needed this regulation to specify certain elements, certain transitional measures, both for the new member states, which have a system of surface payments and which also give a supplementary payment, because of the difference which still exists in relation to the community average. these conditions have been clarified by this regulation. but it will also allow - as some of you have mentioned - certain member states, such as the united kingdom, to maintain this voluntary adjustment between direct payments and rural development in 2013 so that they can continue to finance rural development measures. some of you have already mentioned the work being done to reform the common agricultural policy for the next budgetary period. i remain very attentive to the work that the committee on agriculture is doing on the reports presented by the rapporteurs, and i hope that we will very soon begin formal discussions between the council, parliament and the commission to achieve a fairer reform of the agricultural policy, with, if possible, substantial budgetary support, commensurate with the ambitions of our agricultural policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2012. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on 'alignment with the lisbon treaty'. report by paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers (com (2010) 0539 - c7-0294/2010 - 2010/0267 (cod)) (a7-0158/2011) the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com (2010) 0537 - c7-0295/2010 - 2010/0266 (cod)) (a7-0161/2011). the committee on agriculture, rural development and fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (com (2010) 0799) (com (2010) 0799) (c7-0008/2011 - 2010/0385 (cod)) (a7-0322/2011). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of organic production methods and the use of organic products in the production of foodstuffs. report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on controls by member states of operations forming part of the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund (com (2010) 0761 - c7-0002/2011 - 2010/0366 (cod)) (a7-0204/2011)
the joint debate on critical aspects of interinstitutional cooperation has come to an end. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2012. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we welcome you to the presidency and wish you every success. the cypriot presidency is beginning amid major political developments in the european union. the council's decisions in july, during the cyprus presidency, should be followed by the economic, banking and political integration of europe. ladies and gentlemen, what you may not know is that this small country, cyprus, is characterized by people who have rationality, discipline and courage. cyprus, seeing how its neighbour israel has moved towards energy independence with the discovery of natural gas, has boldly and rationally entered into a business alliance with israel without disturbing its relations with the arab world, in the hope of achieving energy independence for the island. he's a shining example for all of us. let's see how the energy sector can be transformed and used as a vehicle for achieving peace and stability. i repeat that we must, as has been stressed earlier, make use of the good relations of the republic of cyprus with many third world countries, particularly the arab world. i would like to thank you for your cooperation.
mr president, mr president-in-office, every presidency of the council is a great challenge. your presidency, this crucial half of 2012, is crucial, especially because of the important decisions that the union must take to be able to emerge from the crisis. i would like to make four points. first, the financial crisis itself. you have repeatedly stressed the need to prove to the citizens of europe that we are willing and able to overcome the crisis. we must give hope to thousands of young people who see a bleak future in the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second, the relationship with our neighbourhood. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the volatile situation in europe's southern neighbourhood, the massacres in syria and the tension in the middle east call on you to be an honest mediator, a channel of communication and a better understanding of the needs of these countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspectives for the community's structural funds is a step in the right direction. fourthly, the schengen area itself. the european union is not only a member of the schengen area, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the schengen area. your mediating role in the need to clarify where we are going will be central. in conclusion, and before wishing you every success, i too would like to stress the unacceptable attitude of a candidate country - turkey - towards the cypriot presidency with its statements and circulars about the freezing of turkey's relations with that presidency. turkey must accept the european reality and understand that, whether it wants to or not, the republic of cyprus cannot be bypassed if it sincerely wishes to join the european family. the choice is in her hands. i wish you every success.
mr president, mr president of the united cyprus, your small country is called upon to manage a particularly demanding presidency of the european union, given the unfavourable economic situation and the seriousness of the priorities you mentioned in your opening statement. growth and jobs should be key priorities for a more competitive and stronger europe. at the same time, geopolitical developments are taking place in the eastern mediterranean basin and the wider middle east, a highly charged region, which could change the face of the region and the european union: the european union must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy, and that it is the only country in the world which is able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. at the same time, the cypriot presidency is called upon to confront the provocative and subversive attitude of turkey, which i strongly condemn and call on the european union to do the same. i also deplore the fact that part of cyprus, a member state of the european union, is occupied by a foreign state, the turkish troops. the republic of cyprus, accustomed to difficulties, has the wishes of all of us to succeed.
mr president, mr president of the republic of cyprus, the assumption of the presidency of the european council is a historic, political and symbolic high point for the republic of cyprus. the presidency's already demanding duties this semester, in the midst of a deep economic and wider crisis, are becoming a real challenge. the european union must, united and in solidarity, find its footing, rediscover its soul, and re-establish relations of trust with the european citizens. the cypriot presidency is called upon to make a decisive contribution to this lofty objective, unconcerned by the well-known and unacceptable challenges of a challenge to the european institutions and european founding principles by a candidate country. mr. president, don't get carried away. let this country be left to the european solitude of its own choosing.
mr president, it concerns the explanation of vote in the la via report on the 2013 budget and, in particular, the mandate for the trialogue on the draft budget for 2013. i would like to refer in particular to the amendment tabled by the gue/ngl group on paragraph 20 to have one seat for the european parliament. i voted against this amendment because we must respect the institutional order as it is enshrined in the treaties of the european union. but at the same time, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the economic environment, the economic difficulties facing europe as a whole, but especially the european citizens, make the issue politically very serious and we must clearly reconsider it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have to rethink this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. − ι voted in favour of this proposal because it establishes common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and certain support schemes for farmers. it also includes a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current legislative environment and easing the administrative burden for member states.
in writing. 2013 is the transitional year for preparing for and adapting to the new cap 2014-2020, which will have even more disastrous consequences for small and medium-sized farmers and agricultural production, by supporting large agro-capitalist enterprises. the proposed transitional provisions contained in the commission regulation and the report of the european parliament on the transition to the new cap do not change the essence of the cap's anti-agricultural policy. nor is the possibility of transitional national support available to countries with high public debt and deficits to allocate national resources to farmers. this has the effect of increasing the inequality within the eu inherent in the capitalist mode of development, of uprooting the poor farmers more rapidly and of further strengthening the big farmers, preparing the ground for the even more anti-agricultural 'new' cap.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to extend to all member states the current funding possibilities to support the setting up and administrative operation of producer groups.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as a reform of the single cmo is important. i strongly believe that a balance will be achieved between the need for the commission to act efficiently and expediently, on one hand, and the powers parliament and council have under the lisbon treaty with regard to the legislative process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the amendments relating to the expenditure to be financed by the eagf and the recovery procedure constitute a simplification in that they replace two council regulations and result in a decrease in the administrative tasks incumbent on member states.
in writing. this regulation aims to establish specific rules to ensure the quality of organic products, the correct application of the rules by the authorities, bodies and undertakings concerned, the proper functioning of the single market and trade, and the correct information of consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the introduction of the organic label, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to prevent the introduction of the organic label. in the report, which i voted in favour of, the ep reaffirms the commission's implementing powers to ensure uniform conditions for the measures taken by the member states to ensure the correct labelling of organic products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it takes into account the expectations of consumers regarding the quality of organic products and it ensures the adequate application of rules by the authorities throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the inclusion of russia in the wto will allow the opening of the russian market to foreign services. in this case russia will grant more favourable treatment to foreign suppliers than it did before, and the eu has the greatest interest in signing this agreement as one of russia's largest trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the eu car sector in general is supposed to gain substantially higher business opportunities in russia after the wto accession.
in writing. − i voted in favour because this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the framework of its accession process to the world trade organization. it is important that the european parliament has been seized for consent, which is a prerequisite for the council to officially conclude the agreement.
in writing. piracy and counterfeiting cause significant economic and moral damage to the creator and clearly need to be combated at international level. at the same time, however, the attempt to tackle this phenomenon should not restrict fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, the promotion and exchange of ideas and the right to privacy, a position which i have repeatedly supported in the european parliament. in view of this, and since the court of justice of the eu has not yet examined and ruled on the compatibility of the agreement with the fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by community law, and since it was not possible to postpone the vote, i voted against the acta agreement in the european parliament plenary, in order to bring it back with the necessary improvements and amendments, in particular as regards the protection of freedom of expression on the internet. i am awaiting the decision of the court of justice, following the referral of the agreement by the college of eu commissioners to it, and i look forward to further initiatives and proposals to be taken by the commission on the protection of copyright and intellectual property.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report whose main political message is that the eu budget must play an important role in overcoming the current economic and social crisis, in promoting growth and job creation. as regards cohesion policy, the problem of late payments that occurred at the end of 2011 should be addressed by making sufficient payment appropriations available in 2012 so that shortfalls do not worsen in 2013, when the implementation of cohesion policy programmes is expected to accelerate. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programmes. i also call on the council and the commission to assess carefully the actual needs for payments under title 1b and not to make cuts which are unrealistic and unfounded and which run counter to the forecasts provided by the member states themselves, which serve as the basis for drawing up the draft budget. otherwise, the ep would have to oppose any reduction in the level of payment appropriations compared with these needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a need to end the widespread abuse and maltreatment of pets and stray animals throughout the european union and because it proposes a legal framework at eu level. in order to protect pets and stray animals, this framework must establish and enforce, amongst others, animal management strategies, promotion of responsible ownership and establish information and education programmes in schools on animal welfare.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the european parliament welcomes the progress made and the measures taken by the european council to deal with the eurozone crisis. it is important that this growth is no longer on the agenda short of austerity. the council's commitment to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt and to reduce the divergence between the yields on euro area sovereign bonds is moving in the right direction and is an important step for a banking union in the eu as a whole. however, these decisions require a rapid implementation programme (integrated financial framework, integrated budgetary framework, integrated economic policy framework and ensuring the necessary democratic legitimacy and accountability of decision-making within emu). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. the report undertakes to present the service of banking capital by opening a bank account for those who - few - do not have, as an alleged service to the needs of "citizens" and protection of their alleged right to have a bank account. the main issue of interest in the report is the development of the eu's capitalist internal market and electronic commerce, for the benefit of financial capital. the empty words about the supposed right of everyone to have access to a bank account and the non-discrimination of banks are only to mask the real purpose, which is to serve the interests of banking capital. the report's eulogies cannot conceal that banking capital uses access to bank accounts of workers-depositors to "sell" them various other "services" (credit cards, micro-loans, right to overdraft from the account, etc.), thus creating their over-indebtedness, exploiting the fact that the capitalist system cannot meet the needs of the people, thus forcing workers to resort to speculative banking capital. the report recognises the right of banks to charge 'reasonable' fees for bank accounts, i.e. to wipe out small depositors, leaving the legitimate scandals of banks with excessive charges on small depositors under various pretexts and justifications untouched.
in writing. access to basic payment services is a right of consumers to reap the benefits of the internal market and in particular of free movement, the transfer of money and the purchase of goods and services at transaction costs that do not constitute discrimination. but beyond that, access to basic payment services is gradually becoming a prerequisite for social inclusion in terms of employment, health care and housing. it should therefore guarantee it to all eu citizens, regardless of their social status and the remoteness of their place of residence. the fact that the lost opportunities due to lack of access to a payment account are estimated at between eur 185 and eur 365 per consumer reveals the importance of this service. the ep calls on the commission to present a detailed assessment of the situation in all member states by september 2012, so that all necessary measures can be taken.
mr president, on the schengen question too, we have been engaged in an endless exchange of responsibilities in recent times. we sometimes say that it is the fault of the state which is asking for internal border controls, and sometimes we say that it is the fault of another state when the external borders of that state, which are also the external borders of the union, are not adequately and securely guarded as provided for by the schengen area. i think that every time we're confronted with these kinds of accusations, we get disoriented. when the founding fathers of the european union set out to create our union, they started with a basic assumption: we are all to blame for failed policies. they said it was all our fault, and they came to a common conclusion. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. it's not just about helping someone who may have a weakness, it's about taking responsibility together. in this context, you will see that it is very difficult for all of us, and for the citizens who are watching us, to understand what happened last year between france and italy, or what is happening with the checks at the german border on czech buses or at the dutch border with similar situations. how can we therefore take the view that greece is not doing its job on its external borders when frontex itself agrees that greece alone, without the help of its partners and without the help of turkey, cannot secure its borders? i would like to conclude by saying that we should emphasize this, commissioner, and i would also like to address you, because we expect a lot from the commission. the member states at that time, in a fearful approach, i have spoken about several of their representatives, are taking a position on the subject of evaluation and the changes we have in the regulations with the approach that we should be handling these matters ourselves and not be more. no, we want the community method, we want to have a higher level of functioning of schengen, we want future generations to know that we have responded in this period to more europe and not less europe by going backwards on this issue.
in writing. the commission's report on the proper functioning of the schengen treaty states that 75% of illegal immigrants apprehended in the schengen area entered it via the greek-turkish border. the issue of illegal immigration should be tackled globally at european level and it is necessary to take special measures for the member states bordering the eu as they are also under the greatest pressure in a difficult period of economic crisis. i believe that the dublin ii treaty, which places a disproportionate burden on the countries of entry of illegal immigrants in terms of managing illegal immigration, needs to be revised and reviewed. the reintroduction of internal border controls in the area proposed by the commission and the justice and home affairs council of the eu does not actually address the problem, but rather highlights the political isolation of individual member states.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have of course taken very good note of everything which has been said in this debate. i am extremely happy that this compromise, where we all agree, is now on the table. while not wishing to minimise the difficulties on the remaining issues, we are of course willing to cooperate as constructively as possible with parliament and the council on this extremely important file.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe.
the presidency of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the union's external relations are not jeopardized by the threat of a nuclear attack. i am pleased to be able to speak to the debate under your chairmanship. i hope for a very constructive cooperation and thank you very much for your good wishes. before concluding let me just say a few words on the question which was raised as to how the council is considering dealing with the question of the enlargement of the composition of the general court. you know that on 20 june coreper gave a mandate to the friends of the presidency group to continue reflections with a view to identifying possible solutions and reporting back to coreper by the end of the year. it is a shared objective of the european parliament and the council to put in place appropriate measures to deal with the backlog of the general court by the time of the partial renewal of the general court in december 2013, but we all need to understand that this issue is really very complicated and we need some innovative thinking because we need to ensure, on the one hand, the quality of the appointees and consistency with the existing article 255 system, but we also need to somehow ensure the equal footing, or equal status, of those new judges with the others. just imagine that we opt for an equal rotation. who are those who are going to rotate? only those twelve, let us say, or all of them? when it comes to any one country, do they have one judge for sure, who is already there, and the new one has to rotate, and his mandate will not be renewable? i'm just sharing with you some of the possible questions which we need to find a way to address. on behalf of the council, let me just thank the rapporteur and all the members of the european parliament again for the constructive debate on the reform of the court of justice and assure you that we look forward to the introduction of the new rules this autumn. i am also optimistic that this constructive cooperation with parliament will continue so that we can find a timely solution to the challenges facing the general court. it is in the interests of all of us to have a properly working court of justice in the european union.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2012. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in georgia.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i sincerely thank all honourable members who expressed their views on this important issue. let me start with a general statement. the european union is not accepting instrumentalisation of the democratic process in pursuit of other agendas or in order to falsify popular will – anywhere or by anybody. the european union believes in free and fair elections and that fair competition and genuine participation in the upcoming elections will be fundamental in achieving the legitimacy of election results. the european union stresses that politically motivated persecution, direct or indirect, by law enforcement agencies or the use of selective justice against political contenders are not compatible with democratic values. in this regard the european union is monitoring and will continue to monitor the situation in georgia leading up to the elections. it will also monitor the conduct of those elections. the high representative baroness ashton met last week with president saakashvili. her services have met with representatives of the georgian dream coalition. both sides have asked for increased eu involvement, in particular to ensure increased transparency. the european external action service is already doing a lot with the organisation of security and cooperation in europe, including media monitoring – to which many of you referred during the debate. however, the european external action service is also looking at how it can provide further support to ensure maximum transparency. this could include further monitoring of polling, exit-polling and supporting independent civil society organisations. the european union embassies have set up a special on-the-spot taskforce led by the eu delegation. so we are watching and we are helping. overall our position on georgia is very clear. we welcome strong european union-georgia relations. we have seen good progress on the eastern partnership agenda and on the association agreement negotiations and we are delighted that steps towards visa liberalisation are now moving ahead. there are other strategic interests too. the eu recognises the increasing importance of georgia as an energy-transit country and appreciates its cooperation in developing the southern energy corridor. the eu also recognises georgia’s significant contribution to peacekeeping efforts around the globe. we have seen a lot of positive changes since the rose revolution but we need to keep up momentum. this means consolidating democracy, broadening and deepening reform efforts, in particular in the judiciary, the economy and the social sphere, and spreading the benefits of development to marginalised groups. but above all, regional security and democratic evolution are key to securing all the benefits which our association can offer.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria.
mr president, developments in syria are marked by an intensification of violence and an escalation of the assad government's attacks with bombings in the cities of homs and douma. many human lives, over 4,000, have been lost in the last eight months. at the same time, the spectre of political and religious antagonisms and ethnic rivalries has come to the surface. the situation on the turkish border is also becoming more tense and there is a risk of a military conflict, whether intended or not, at any time. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in turkey, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in turkey. christians in the area feel unsafe. on the international diplomatic front, the russia-west conflict remains, and moscow is refusing to attend the friends of syria summit next friday. a global crisis is looming and please we must be on the lookout for it.
mr president, we denounce the decisions of the european council of 29 june on syria and iran, because they mark an escalation of the imperialist intervention of the european union, the united states and nato in the region, in the context of fierce competition with the capitalist powers of russia, china and india, and reinforce the threats of the united states and nato, as well as turkey, qatar, saudi arabia and israel in the region. at the moment, us aircraft carriers are massing in the area and mobility is increasing at the souda base in greece. the imposition of a no-fly zone under the pretext of responsibility for the protection of civilians is being considered, which has been used in other imperialist interventions. the united states, nato and the european union and states in the region are interfering in syria's internal affairs, misinforming, exploiting the conflict to justify a new imperialist war. the developments in syria are complementary to the occupation in iraq, afghanistan and libya. we also denounce the decisions of nato, which, under the pretext of so-called atlantic solidarity with turkey, is leading the imperialist armada against syria for a strategic strike against iran. sanctions are being tightened and the european union is threatening open military intervention if the imperialist plans to overthrow the syrian government are not passed. as we know, the decisions to impose an oil embargo on iran have been in force since 1 july, with disastrous consequences. the developments in syria concern the syrian people. the peoples must resist the interventions of the european union and nato and overthrow the imperialist plans.
mr president, i would agree with the comments made by the commissioner, jo leinen and corinne lepage, and with a lot of comments from other colleagues. if governments failed in rio to agree the level of ambition we would have liked them to achieve, it is true that people see that businesses did arrive at this level of ambition. condemning the weak wording of this agreement from the earth summit in rio often makes us blind as to what has been achieved. we all wanted more in rio, but it is not true that nothing has been achieved. let us implement what has been agreed. in my view, it is often better to have a weak agreement which is fully implemented, than a wonderful agreement which is not. therefore, let us fulfil those obligations. we have many opportunities to do so. let us fulfil the obligation on the oceans. let us make the world environment organisation a reality. let us build on the momentum that has been built globally, moving beyond gdp. on the issue of roadless areas, for the first time in the framework of these earth summits, we had a presentation by two global satellite mapping tools on the world’s roadless areas. they were mapped by google maps and eye on earth. it presented the fact that the best way to protect an area is to keep it roadless. if you want to connect people within a protected area, there are other ways to do so other than by roads e.g. railways and waterways. i call on the commissioner to support this global fight and help make the protection of roadless areas a reality within the eu.
in writing. a total of €1.5 trillion is expected to be invested in europe in transport, energy and ict infrastructure over the period 2010-2020. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. the commission has therefore proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission proposes that the new multiannual financial framework should facilitate such investments with the connecting europe strategy. for greece, this initiative has particular significance as it focuses on cross-border sections and can therefore benefit from it. the report, which i voted for, encourages this initiative, seeks convergence and agreement with the council, but in any case it stresses the points to which particular attention should be paid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of project bonds for the economy of the eu and its member states. with investment in the eu steadily declining in recent years, the economic and financial crisis aggravating this situation, national fiscal constraints and bank capital requirements, new ways of stimulating investment leading to economic recovery and growth are needed. the project bonds will make investments in vital infrastructure projects more attractive to capital market investors by mitigating the risk associated with them and are expected to have a multiplier effect to mobilise further investment. in this way, project bonds are expected to play a key role in the recovery efforts of member states, and in particular those facing greater fiscal challenges. it will also make a decisive contribution to the strategy for development that many eu leaders are calling for. in addition, i would add that the risk to the eu budget, and therefore to european taxpayers, is strictly limited, without exceeding the maximum eu contribution, namely the amount of eur 230 million.
in writing. as the commission proposal shows, the 2012 budget is in surplus of eur 1.49 billion. this amount will be reduced by the total contribution of the member states to the eu budget, which is a relief, albeit a very small one, for national budgets, especially those of countries under great economic pressure. the european parliament, however, finds the council's unilateral decision to cut research expenditure by more than two thirds on the grounds of the low absorption and under-performance of the programme to be unsatisfactory for obvious reasons. this point and the ep's reaction are clearly emphasized in this report, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. the resolution, while recognizing - under the pressure of the palestinian struggle and tragic reality - aspects of israeli barbarity, nullifies them by opposing to the rightful, legitimate demand for an independent palestinian state israel's "right" to security, which constitutes a pretext for the occupation of palestinian territories and legitimizes israel's crimes against the palestinians. the eu-us-nato are upgrading their relations with israel. they are trying to consolidate and expand their imperialist interventions, in the territory of the struggle between them and with other imperialist powers, for the exploitation of the peoples and the wealth-producing resources of the region. their policy is undermining israel, preventing the recognition of an independent palestinian state, exacerbating and complicating problems, and posing dangers for the people. the kke stands in solidarity with the palestinians in their just struggle for the immediate, unconditional creation of an independent, territorial and viable palestinian state, with the borders and territories of 1967, with east jerusalem as its capital. immediate, unconditional withdrawal of israeli occupation troops from the occupied palestinian territories. immediate cessation and dismantling of settlements. immediate, unconditional lifting of the blockade of the gaza strip. demolition of the israeli wall of shame in east jerusalem and the west bank. the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. immediate release of all palestinian prisoners and members of the palestinian legislative council
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was sad to see that once again in parliament, this time in the committee on the environment, an amendment was voted down on the labelling of products from cattle fed on gmos. i wonder who is it that does not want the public to know what it is consuming, who is it that does not want the public to be able to choose, who is it that supports the interests of the companies or what the companies think is in their interest, namely to operate in secret. the same is true of the issue of traceability. this is a very important issue because if we have the right traceability and electronic tagging, we can actually prevent deaths, loss of life of our fellow citizens from diseases and epidemics. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and socialist member mrs roth-behrendt on her excellent work and hope that the vote in the plenary will reverse the bad results in the committee on the environment and will work to really protect the rights of european citizens and public health in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on tuesday 11 september 2012.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches (rule 150).
mr president, last week the troika asked the greeks to work six days a week. the greeks have reached their limits, and the troika seems to be ignoring basic facts. in its latest report, the oecd calculates working hours for the people of all its member countries. the greeks work harder than anyone: 2,032 hours of work per year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am concerned because the commission's priorities include, once again, the revision of the working time directive. i would remind you that when this was attempted in the previous legislature, the european parliament stood up. i would therefore like to conclude by quoting the words of the president of the commission, mr barroso: it would be wrong, in every respect, to try to dismantle the welfare state and our social models, especially in countries following austerity programmes.
madam president, our group, the european people's party, our shadow rapporteur, mrs hohlmeier, and i personally congratulate our rapporteur on a very good report. it was a very important discussion during the preparation and drafting of this report, while the negotiations on the asylum package are still ongoing, which, as we all know, must be completed within a very short timeframe, by the end of this year. the report has given us the opportunity to develop our thoughts more openly and to put forward proposals and ideas. i think that the report will, even after the negotiations have been concluded, be a reference point for the problems of the common asylum package and for the need for greater solidarity and for an equal sharing of the burden, as the rapporteur rightly said. we need a european asylum system and we need a high level of protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the main objective of the directive, mr president, is to strengthen and implement the maximum sulphur content of marine fuels as agreed by the international maritime organization. there have been attempts to overcome these provisions and to tighten the limits. the compromise text reached is satisfactory. there is clear progress and clear improvement. i have some reservations, however, particularly as regards the review clause. a comprehensive assessment of the results of implementation should be carried out before a review is carried out. i also believe that the new legislative initiative, which has been envisaged since 2013, does not serve the predictability and stability of the economic environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we need to combine realism with ecological sensitivity.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr claude turmes on his excellent and balanced work. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i would like to add the following: one way to turn energy efficiency into an energy source is to reach out to the citizens of europe with the aim of embracing a specific behaviour. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency directive is implemented in the member states. we could also have pan-european information and guidance campaigns for european citizens on energy awareness and behaviour.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time to the commission. i should like to welcome once again commissioners oettinger and almunia. the specific topic for question time today is the state of play of the energy market acquis (3rd package) implementation. i will interpret this topic as widely as possible but i should also warn you that if your question is completely off-topic and if it deals, for example, with the common agricultural policy, you are liable to be cut off. i should also like to remind you of the ground rules. questions are taken exclusively on a catch-the-eye basis and each member has one minute to put his or her question and 30 seconds to put a supplementary. the commission has two minutes to reply if only one commissioner is to be responsible for answering. if more than one commissioner is to reply, each commissioner has one minute’s speaking time.
we took note of your remark.
member of the commission. - we have different legal bases for our europeanisation of energy policy. the first is the euratom treaty, which is still the primary law, the second is the treaty of lisbon, with its own section on the europeanisation of energy legislation, and the third is our general internal market rules, which have been in force for decades in the case of oil and coal and have been in force for 15 years in the case of gas and electricity. and then we have the 20 2020 targets as binding energy and climate policy. one thing we don't have is the choice of technology. so the question of whether nuclear power is to be used or not, or coal, if so, how much and for how long, or renewable energy beyond the binding european target, i.e. more than 20%, is a matter for national governments and parliaments. we respect that. we will be presenting our comprehensive report on our stress tests in a few weeks' time, which will provide comprehensive information on the standards, strengths, risks of the more than 130 nuclear power stations in the eu plus our partners in ukraine and switzerland, and also suggestions or demands for retrofitting, for higher standards. we shall have a debate on that. but the final decision will then remain with national governments and parliaments. we currently have about 30% of nuclear power in the european electricity mix. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of nuclear power. we respect that decision. we are living in a multicultural europe: italy with the referendum not to build a nuclear power station, germany with the decision to withdraw in ten years, poland with two power plant plans, the united kingdom with the intention to increase the share of nuclear power in the electricity mix from 25 to 60%, and france with the election winner hollande, who wants to reduce the share of nuclear power from today's 76 to 50% by 2025.
member of the commission. - mrs hedegaard is the commission's lead on the ets. we believe that the ets is a market-oriented solution to achieve co2 emission reductions and we will go into the regulatory phase next year. we now have a problem: because of the economic stagnation, because of the crisis, the price of co2 has not been 14 to 18 euros, as it has been for many years, but 6 to 8 euros. this does not create a price signal. we are therefore considering whether we should temporarily withdraw certain emission allowances, certain quantities, from the market in order to achieve a certain increase in the market price. the commission will take a decision on this and other matters in the coming weeks. the external problem is that co2 and ets are not recognised or adopted in any other region of the world. this means that a global market for co2 emissions is not yet emerging. first, shale gas: shale gas in the united states has completely changed the global market for gas. the americans used to be big gas importers lng gas , but today they are largely self-sufficient in gas and have a cost factor: gas in the usa costs only 30% of the gas price in european markets. we presented three studies last week on shale gas and its environmental impact and risks. we are working closely together here: mr potočnik, mrs hedegaard and myself. we are accompanying demonstration projects. we welcome the fact that demonstration projects are being tried in a few member states. at the moment we believe that it would be too early for european, more far-reaching, binding rules. in general, we believe that shale gas can play a complementary role in the european gas market, but will not play a substitute role. in the long term we will also need conventional gas from third countries. shale gas will be complementary but not substitutive.
member of the commission. - there are a number of studies on shale gas. and certainly some of the clients are also in the market and therefore not necessarily completely independent. our research services are also active. we maintain that the commission is independent and that our experts are not bound by market interests. another point: renewable energy is not really an opponent of gas, but a partner. electricity from solar and wind energy requires supplementary electricity production, and gas is the natural partner. whether the gas comes from russia, norway or algeria or from our rock formations, the renewable energy partner doesn't really care.
member of the commission. - mr president, we have the same problems in transposing the single market packages into national law as in other areas of law. this is not a special case for energy, but applies equally to consumer protection, the economy and other sectors of the internal market. i do not think that we should use the european budget as a punishment when member states are late in implementing eu law. we believe that our infringement procedures are successful and that in the next few years we will see the single market law in the field of energy being implemented in all member states on a one-to-one basis. the majority of the ministers are very constructive. however, the willingness to implement is often more reserved in the parliaments of our member states.
member of the commission. − i would like to see our infringement procedures in court being dealt with more quickly. we don't need any more advanced instruments. we will show in the single market communication that we are making good progress in the implementation of our single market packages in the member states.
that concludes question time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark to support the 550 workers made redundant by a shipyard in the city of odense and by the four suppliers and producers of the shipyard. these redundancies were the result of the opening-up to the globalised economy and the transfer of the yard's activities to asia. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of denmark is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted for the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain to support 320 redundancies in 377 construction companies in the aragon region. the economy of the region has been severely hit, as the opening up of the global market has adversely affected important sectors of the economy, such as construction. this situation, combined with the problems faced by the automotive industry in the same region, makes aragon one of the most economically vulnerable regions in spain. the negative effects of globalisation, combined with the continuing economic crisis in spain, further highlight the added value of the egf as an instrument of eu social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of the spanish national budget as well as the budget of the region itself.
in writing. − the construction sector has been severely affected by the crisis in spain, but also in many other eu member states. the main reason for this is that loans have been drastically reduced, thus creating a sudden drop in demand for new houses. furthermore, i voted on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. the report is an open mockery of the peoples. it refuses to condemn the governments of certain countries - including greece - which have been shown to have actively participated and cooperated with the cia and the usa in the kidnappings, illegal detentions, torture of 'terrorist suspects' and the maintenance of secret prisons on their territory. it goes so far as to call on the bourgeois governments which participated in the crimes to carry out investigations against themselves in order to reveal the truth, which is proven and known to everyone except the european parliament. the committee's position that the european parliament's committee and its reports were hypocritical and essentially aimed at defusing popular discontent and concealing the responsibilities of the governments of the eu member states is confirmed. the so-called 'war on terror' spearheaded by the eu-us and the various intelligence services, is really aimed at striking at the class movement that challenges the capitalist exploitative system, the stifling restrictions and the infringement of popular freedoms and democratic rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as i believe it puts the necessary pressure on both the eu institutions and each of its member states to continue the investigations to establish the extent of the abductions, secret detentions and torture unlawfully carried out by the us intelligence services (cia), with the complicity or tolerance of european states in violation of any notion of international law and respect for human rights. the resolution expresses in the clearest possible terms the european parliament's wish that human rights should not be sacrificed in the name of fighting terrorism, that terrorism suspects should not be tried under a special judicial system, that the guantanamo base should be closed immediately by the us government, and that the un resolutions on human dignity should be respected in general. it also called on the european council to accept the obvious fact of the violation of the european treaties in the illegal transfer of prisoners by the cia through european territory, to investigate the cases and to ensure that such incidents are not repeated. finally, it rightly urges the european parliament's temporary committee to take action to further investigate cases in the event of european council blockage.
in writing. i voted in favour of the two mcavan reports (a7-0164/2012 and a7-0165/2012) because they strengthen pharmacovigilance following the scandal created by the use of the french pharmaceutical company servier's mediator drug, which brought to light serious weaknesses and malfunctions in the eu's drug control system and the unacceptable lobbying methods of the pharmaceutical companies. although the side effects of mediator were known as early as 1998, its withdrawal from the market was delayed by 8 years, resulting in about 500 deaths and 3,500 hospitalizations for heart problems. the amendments i voted for cover the gaps in the legislation, namely the lack of evaluation of a medicinal product after its authorisation, the withdrawal without automatic notification of all eu member states, the lack of justification and the lack of transparency for the withdrawal. drug safety is a huge issue. we want informed patients who can participate alongside healthcare professionals in pharmacovigilance. the amendments i voted for, namely the activation of the urgency procedure, the clarification of the transparency obligations for pharmaceutical companies and the re-registration of suspect medicinal products in the list of medicinal products subject to additional monitoring, are aimed at closing all the windows that may undermine the safety of medicinal products and the protection of public health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the determination of the commission to further strengthen the pharmacovigilance system at eu level and include the relevant stakeholders, such as patients and healthcare professionals, in developing an efficient and effective system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, by switching to more stringent sulphur limits, it would be possible to achieve significant health and environmental benefits in a cost-efficient way by implementing the 0.1% limit more widely than just in europe’s existing secas, resulting in a different level playing field as regards the cost impact of reform.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it provides the possibility for member states to grant decoupled aid to vine growers under the single payment scheme (sps) as part of their national vine growers’ programmes. moreover, i strongly support that the european parliament underlines its position against the abolishment of planting rights in the sector.
in writing. it is common knowledge that tax evasion and avoidance costs the governments of the member states of the european union a considerable amount of uncollected revenue and the economy of my country, greece, has been hit very hard by this phenomenon. i voted in favour of the gáll-pelcz report because i believe that the creation of a common taxation system in the eu will strengthen cooperation between the member states in the fight against tax evasion and will also be another step towards a genuine monetary and economic union, just as we should have done from the beginning of the adoption of the euro.
in writing. it is clear that the scale of the budgetary crisis is testing both the cohesion and the economic policy of the union. the multiannual financial framework, which was launched in a stable and optimistic environment in 2006, is being completed the following year in a completely different economic environment. the original objectives and priorities must therefore be adapted to the new circumstances. in this joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament opposes the importance of greater unification as a counterbalance to the crisis and stresses the need to draw up a road map immediately for the future rational and efficient use of community resources. certainly new challenges, which are of particular concern to greece, such as the widening youth unemployment, the importance of more intervention initiatives by the european investment bank, and the importance of creating a climate of economic growth and investment should be included in the new multiannual budget package.
in writing. this report is guided by the understanding that donations should be voluntary and made on a non-profit-making basis and in an environment of transparency. it is clear that 'buying' a humanitarian supply is not the right approach. on the other hand, non-monetary incentives offer moral compensation, which is also consistent with and relevant to the spirit of selflessness and generosity. good examples already in place in some member states, such as the united kingdom, demonstrate the validity of this approach. in any event, however, and beyond the final policies that member states will decide to implement in this area, it is clear that the existence of websites allowing the sale or purchase of gamete cells online raises significant legal and ethical problems and raises questions about the transparency of these transactions. the lack of a legal framework in several member states makes this situation worse, and this is the focus of the report which i voted in favour of.
in writing. the education and training 2020 (et 2020) programme is a follow-up to the education and training 2010 programme. however, in today's difficult economic environment, smart investment, production-oriented and innovation-driven initiatives must be at the forefront in order to restore positive and sustainable growth rates. although the commission proposal takes account of this to some extent, the commission communication does not include critical areas such as the demographic problem in europe, the language barriers in the eu, the greater investment in lifelong learning and retraining programmes, especially for the less-privileged social groups. education and training, which are highly social goods, should not be degraded by the crisis but should instead be seen as a means of escape from it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it underlines several important objectives that need to be addressed in the development of education and training throughout europe. there is a need for smart investment along with policy reforms; more efforts are needed to reach the europe 2020 headline target on early school leaving and tertiary education; transnational mobility for acquiring new skills; and the need to improve europe’s skill base.
in writing. the audiovisual sector combines intellectual creation, culture and art with industry. the coexistence of these two different elements requires tools that encourage the artistic expression of creators - especially young people - while seeking ways for it to contribute to jobs and the economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the report, which i voted in favour of, stresses, among other things, that the union's policy should aim at creating an environment favourable to the development of legal tender, accessible to all. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the single market works, and offers new prospects and opportunities, both to consumers and to creators and service providers. the aim of eu policy must be to create an environment conducive to the development of universally accessible legal content, to innovation and to creation. it is encouraging that the issue of net neutrality is of fundamental importance in this new online environment.
in writing. for another year, the council resorted to the popular tactic of horizontal cuts in all budget headings without relying on a thorough and detailed analysis. although it is widely accepted and proven that cohesion policy is the main and most appropriate investment instrument that can lead the eu to growth and job creation, the council's cuts focused on the regional competitiveness and employment objective, the territorial cooperation objective and the cohesion fund. it should be noted that these cuts are in complete contradiction with the conclusions of the june summit. as regards payments under this heading, the draft budget is considered as the minimum and is based on the assumption that all payment needs from previous years will have been covered in 2012. with the council's cuts, however, the risk of this non-payment being passed on to 2013 as it was from 2011 to 2012 is more than visible. such a development could jeopardise the proper implementation of these programmes in the last year of the current multiannual financial framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i congratulate mr brok on the excellent work he has done on a very difficult report. i hope that developments after 2013 will not substantially disrupt the global status quo and will justify the forecasts of the report and the high representative. i am not able, of course, to cover all the chapters of the report because of the time limit, but i would like to focus on the eastern mediterranean and the southern neighbourhood, which are of vital importance to the european union. the tendency in the west to focus only on economic issues risks ignoring critical geopolitical aspects of the crisis. this is what the great analyst ian lesser points out, saying that greece may be going through a critical economic period but that we should not dwell only on numbers. the geostrategic position and importance of greece is enormous when greece's neighbourhood, from the balkans to the near east, is entering a very unstable period and with unforeseeable consequences for the immediate future. we must therefore be vigilant and we must prevent social tension in greece. the exploitation of natural gas in the eastern mediterranean region can also be a factor of security and stability for the union and contribute to the achievement of energy diversity. it is essential that the union move in this direction and you too, baroness ashton, must show strong political will and determination to issue mining licences within the eez of the member states, as defined by international law.
madam president, the debt crisis in many member states and the uncertainty about the future of the eurozone are undoubtedly affecting the union's image and calling into question its ability to play a meaningful role on the international scene. so i do not think this is the time for long empty declarations. the union must rediscover itself and set realistic targets based on its real potential. it is important that in this year's european parliament report on foreign and security policy there is a clearer call for the union to identify such strategic priorities. as parliament's rapporteur on enlargement, i would like to thank in particular mr brok, who has shown a constructive attitude on enlargement issues. i would also like to welcome the clear statement that the european parliament firmly supports the european perspective of any european state that respects the values of the union and is willing to fulfil the copenhagen criteria. enlargement is a major success of external action and must remain at the forefront and in the union's toolbox.
mr president, lady ashton, we are all very disappointed today. beyond the findings, we need decisions on syria. the country continues to drown in blood and the west watches helplessly. our inability and the security council's inability to pass a strong message allows assad to believe that he can still win. this is our failure. the neighbouring countries, particularly lebanon and jordan, but especially turkey, are under great pressure from the huge waves of refugees. according to un figures, in august alone, 100,000 syrians fled their country, most of them seeking refuge in neighboring turkey. turkey is objectively unable to cope with such a size alone. the search for safety and survival will bring these people to european host countries such as greece, italy and eventually to the rest of the european union. the consequences of this move will be huge. even at this last moment, we must join forces to find a way to end the violence immediately, but also to strengthen humanitarian efforts and to give a perspective and a hope to these people.
mr president, mrs ashton, we are talking about syria in terms of findings and wishes. it's all we can do. we are witnessing a civil war in which thousands of people are being sacrificed every day. we sympathize with their families and wish for an end to this war. i cannot say that you have made superhuman efforts and i cannot hold you responsible for what we did and did not do in syria when the united nations failed to provide a solution to the issue because the situation is complicated by that country's ties with russia and iran. the point i particularly want to make is that i am afraid of the danes who bring gifts. i am afraid of turkey, which is trying to take up an issue which is part of the davutoglu doctrine. i ask you, firstly, who are the opposition forces in syria and who controls them, secondly, whether there is a plan to absorb the refugees and, thirdly, what are we going to do about the christians in syria.
mr president, i think we must condemn in the strongest possible terms open interventions by the great imperialist powers, such as the one being carried out at the moment against the syrian people. such interventions are largely responsible for perpetuating and aggravating the situation. i want to mention something that nobody mentioned in this room, that the american president has approved the cia action against the syrian people. i want to refer to what the newspapers have written, that france is already sending "humanitarian" aid to five syrian cities". we know very well that through humanitarian aid, in libya and elsewhere, military aid was sent. i also want to refute in the most categorical way what has been heard in this chamber, with excessive audacity, that the republic of cyprus is allegedly supporting the shipment of arms to syria. with such unfounded statements the ground is being prepared for new crimes against the peoples of the region, as has been done in libya, as has been done in afghanistan, as has been done in iraq.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all members of this house who have contributed in this very important debate. i think the views of members have been coherent and consistent in saying two or three things with which i agree. first of all we need to continue, and to step up, our work with civil society in russia and to be as supportive as possible of all those who seek a democratic future for their country. we also need to be clear of the importance of russia in terms of how we work with russia in our activities across the world. i have already pointed to examples of that, but i would again refer to the iran talks, where russia is an important and key partner with us in trying to address the nature of the nuclear programme of iran. i would not wish honourable members to be under any illusion that russia plays anything but an incredibly important role in that. so too does the partnership for modernisation, but we have to do more to push forward on this. it is important. it is an area of work, both in terms of economic life and in terms of political life, where we can do something. but the concerns that have been raised have been well said. the concerns about individuals and about what is happening in terms of the basis of this debate, which is the political use of justice, have been well noted. i thank you for the support for what we are doing and look forward to continuing to work with you on this.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i should like to begin by thanking my fellow rapporteurs, mr stevenson, mr gallagher, mr haglund, mr torvalds, and all the other members of the committee on fisheries for their help in drafting this report. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and my colleague, mrs zaharaki, who dealt with the subject. the fisheries sector is certainly at a turning point. the previous reform of the common fisheries policy failed to achieve the basic objectives pursued, as the european commission itself acknowledges. but even that is experience. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. the european union accounts for around 4.6% of world fisheries and aquaculture production, making it the fourth largest producer in the world. however, it imports 60% of the fish consumed in the european union. according to available data, 75% of the union's fish stocks are overexploited and more than 60% of fish stocks in european waters are fished beyond maximum sustainable yield. the european union loses €1.8 billion in potential revenue every year because it cannot manage its fisheries sustainably. at the same time, it lost 30% of its jobs in the period 2002-2007. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. these are the pillars on which the report we have presented to you is based. the main emphasis is on maximum sustainable yield. the pursuit of maximum sustainable yield is an ambitious objective that will contribute to the recovery of the population of fish stocks. the poor state of stocks requires us to be ambitious, especially at a time when we are given a historic opportunity to lay the foundations of a european fisheries policy. the report also highlights the difficulties in applying msy, especially in the case of mixed fisheries or where the scientific data to support it are incomplete. the commission and mrs damannakis should take note of this, and i thank them for their assistance, as i thank their office for its assistance and advice in the preparation of this report. the commission is called upon to increase funding to member states for safe and reliable data collection. the reliability and availability of their data should, i believe, be one of the most important priorities of the reform. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a measure which concerns us because it is clearly unacceptable to throw food back into the sea which could be consumed. in our day and age and in the current economic climate, we all know how wasteful this practice is and how destructive it is to the environment and to the viability of the stocks. i would like to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i thank you again and i ask you to support my report.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to, and ask it to support, the salavrakos report and the rapporteur’s amendment, amendment 1, and paragraph 4 of the haglund report. this text is a cross-party compromise and calls on the commission to ‘assess the possibility of establishing a network of closed areas in which all fishing activities are prohibited for a certain period of time in order to increase fish productivity and conserve living aquatic resources and the marine ecosystem’. this is really necessary; as you know, the council has taken a very rigid position on the existing proposals. we have to put productive things on the table. this is a proposal which can help fishermen and fisheries. finally, with regard to the stevenson report, i would like to support colleagues that have asked for labelling indicating where and how the fish was caught and which systems were used.
member of the commission. − mr president, i shall be brief as i have almost exhausted my time limits. i would like to thank again all the rapporteurs and all the speakers because the discussion was very interesting and of substance. this is very helpful and gives us a very positive sign for the future. i think that this is a positive moment in the cooperation between the commission and parliament. this is the way i would like to see it and i hope that you are going to vote tomorrow for a good reform, a good radical and conclusive reform. this is what we really want. i do not want to comment on your opinions, but, because i think it is fair, just to comment on the spirit that i have witnessed in some interventions. this is not a power game of the commission against parliament or anybody else here. this is not a power game. we need your cooperation. i am here to cooperate with you in the reform. so, please, it is unfair to say, for example, referring to the gallagher report – i already congratulated mr gallagher on his excellent job and also the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs – that this will be the end of the commission doing nothing and so on. after all, this is a report on our proposal. the commission services have worked a lot in some months to reach this proposal for this instrument, so it is unfair to say that the commission failed to answer this question and that parliament will now have to respond. everybody would like to cooperate here. at least, i would like to cooperate with all of you, and i very much welcome your ideas and your proposals. i understand all about the theoretical ideas, that the commission and european union are against fisheries and against fishermen, that we are trying to implement neo-liberal ideas, etc., but here are some concrete questions and i think that all members have to give concrete answers. do we want to have the date of the catch? do we want to have it on the fish products? yes or no? i would like clear answers on this because otherwise, when i then go to discuss this with small-scale fisheries and small-scale fishermen everywhere, i will have to say that the commission tried to protect their interests but the european parliament declined to do so. so, after all, this house also has some responsibility.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank all the speakers for their very fruitful interventions, to which i have listened very attentively. i have taken careful note of the key points that were raised. let me once again assure you that the reform of the common fisheries policy is a top priority for the council as well as the european parliament and the commission. the reports by the european parliament that we have in front of us show that the council and parliament can go a long way together on major issues. it is hoped that this will also be the case for the european maritime and fisheries fund. the presidency therefore looks forward to continuing constructive and fruitful dialogue between the council and the european parliament with a view to finding agreement on the best way forward. i should like to make a final point on labelling and, in particular, on the catch date being made mandatory in fish product information. i hope you will bear with me for not being an expert on this – and, of course, i do not like to contradict my dear commissioner damanaki – but i must explain the rationale behind the council’s position. the council holds that the catch date is difficult to establish, and trace, on fishing trips lasting several days or weeks. on such trips, the fish is often immediately frozen on board and, therefore, kept in perfect condition. mandatory information exists already concerning package date and best- before date, and this information should be expanded to include qualitative information on whether the product was defrosted before selling. the catch or landing date could be part of the voluntary information whereby the producer or merchant seeks to distinguish one product from another.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, the rapporteurs of the reports on this subject who have preceded me on the floor have covered most of my points. i would like to emphasize that in drafting this report i have had in mind certain principles: the moderate adaptation of the measure of legislation, the feasibility and controllability of the measure, the acceptability of the measure and the permanence of the measure, because too much change is harmful. i thanked all the colleagues who helped me to draw up the report. i have not thanked the fishermen, who will accept the results of this arrangement. i would therefore like to remind the fishermen of europe that jesus christ chose them as his disciples and, like the 'fishermen of the needle', gave them the power to fish for souls. i want to assure them that we are looking to the future of fishing, that we are aware of the history of fishing and that we believe that fishing will continue to exist well beyond 2020.
mr president of the european commission, thank you for your inspired speech. i would urge you to address it to the council of heads of state or government at the next summit because i think they need to be convinced. the european parliament will be with you as you move in the direction you have described. i would like to focus on one point, mr president. you were right to say that europe needs change and reform and that the european social model should not be abandoned but reformed. but, mr president, what do we mean when we talk about reforms? do we give priority to reforms that serve your vision, that is to say, those that promote social justice, growth, the functioning of the single market, such as tax reform, the fight against tax evasion, the liberalisation of markets, or do we give priority to reforms that undermine your vision, such as the complete deregulation of the labour market, the abolition of collective bargaining and the role of the social partners? we must decide, mr president, what kind of reforms we want to serve.
i am one of those who understand the efforts made by the commission to normalize developments in the european union, and i congratulate you on that. we must not only criticize, we must also praise. let me elaborate on my reasoning: i read a statistic that the european union today represents 4% of the world's population and 30% of the world's gdp. does this mean we got rich by spending? because there is this method - get rich by waste, by consumption. but with this fiscal discipline that we are imposing now, we are reducing gdp, we are getting poorer and unemployment is increasing, worsened by technological progress. the fact that the swiss franc is at parity should also be a cause for concern, because it points to a great deal of tax evasion. is there an immediate plan for unemployment and tax evasion?
ladies and gentlemen, the following was announced in the plenary on monday 10 september 2012:- the recommendation of the committee on transport not to raise any objection to a draft implementing measure on the regulatory procedure with scrutiny: recommendation for a decision not to raise any objection to the draft commission decision authorising the french republic to derogate from the provisions of commission regulation (eu) no 1332/2011 on the use of a new air collision avoidance software system (acas ii) in certain newly built aircraft (b7-0423/2012) · and- the recommendation of the committee on agriculture not to object to a delegated act: recommendation for a decision on the non-objection to the commission delegated regulation of 28 june 2012 supplementing council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards transnational cooperation and contractual negotiations of producer organisations in the milk and milk products sector (b7-0424/2012). no objection was raised to the above recommendations within the 24-hour time limit laid down in article 87a of the regulation. consequently, these recommendations are deemed to have been adopted with effect from 11 september 2012 and the decisions will be published in the 'authorised documents' of 12 september 2012.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes. )
there is a request for a roll call vote. we shall vote by roll call on amendment no 164. the vote is coming up.
mr president, i would ask you to put the entire resolution to a roll-call vote.
in writing. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to make its views known. it is part of the eu's strategy for a 'single area of freedom, security and justice' which aims to shield the exploitative system more effectively by enlarging repressive mechanisms and restricting popular freedoms and democratic rights. the criminal treatment and the conditions for the administration of criminal justice are a sovereign competence of each member state, which is gradually and in a targeted manner being transferred to the eu institutions through a series of eu legislation. to this end, issues that raise workers' awareness, such as the protection of children, victims of crime, etc., are selected to instill in the public consciousness the alleged need for a common eu criminal law. the provisions of the directive which provide for the possibility of victims giving evidence without being physically present in court are also dangerous. such provisions are promoted in the 'anti-terrorism' legislation of the eu and its member states by denying fundamental rights of the defence of the accused, such as the possibility for the defence to verify the credibility of the testimony by means of a live trial.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. until now, the eu lacked a comprehensive european legislative framework that provides all victims of crime, regardless of their legal status, with recognition and the widest possible protection within the union. this initiative contributes to the extension of such rights as the right to information, the right to interpretation and translation, the right to be heard, the right to compensation, the right to avoid contact between the victim and the perpetrator. however, it is noted that the definition of 'victim' is missing from community legislation, which should be clarified in future legislative acts. in addition, despite the comprehensive list of rights provided for in the commission's communication on victims of crime, items such as psychological support for victims, additional protection for victims with special needs and ensuring the protection of the privacy of victims, which are included in the european parliament's report, are missing.
in writing. i voted against the report by mr gallagher as it proposes measures to make the eu more effective in implementing agreed fisheries management measures in a way that creates disincentives for unsustainable fishing.
in writing. the european parliament's group of the european people's party voted against the report and the proposal for a regulation because it is part of the revision of the anti-people common fisheries policy. the aim of the reform is to further capitalist restructuring of the fisheries sector by destroying small-scale fishermen - which has already largely been done with the current cfp - and strengthening the large fishing fleets and aquaculture monopolies. the proposal to restructure the common market in fishery and aquaculture products is designed to further strengthen the monopoly groups in the sector. the 'producer organisations' - for which various eu funding instruments are envisaged - will increase the size of the monopoly groups and will mean the final destruction of the poor and middle-class fishermen. it introduces transferable fishing licences to be managed by producer organisations, which will increase the size of monopoly groups and will mean the final destruction of poor and middle-class fishermen, since monopolies in the area will accumulate a large number of licences. the proposed ban on discarding unwanted catches will favour monopolistic concentration in the sector, as only the monopolies have the appropriate logistical processing infrastructure, while poor middle-class fishermen who cannot cope are driven to extinction.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it advocates an even more aggressive common foreign and defence policy and calls for the multiplication of eu military and civilian operations. the new position of 'eu commissioner for human rights' is intended to provide cover for eu interventions such as the european endowment for democracy which will fund secretly 'dissident' parties. the report calls for an even more aggressive eu role in the western balkans, the middle east, central asia, the horn of africa and sub-saharan africa. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road. it gives full support to the imperialist intervention in syria, calling for additional measures in the name of 'the right to protect civilians from the regime's massacres', as it had done in the libyan war. this new pretext for imperialist intervention is being attempted to be reduced to a new un principle. the report calls for full alignment of the eu with nato in afghanistan and elsewhere, with the decisions of the 2012 chicago summit, and fully covers nato's plans for so-called missile shields and nuclear weapons in europe.
in writing. i voted against the brok report because i believe that it encourages the european parliament and the other institutions of the union to pursue the militarization of its foreign policy, through the cfsp, at the expense of a pro-peace policy based on cooperation between all the member states of the union and non-member states, away from dangerous national rivalries and political-military interventions. as a member of the euro group of the left, i express my firm opinion - contrary to this report - on the complete separation of the union from the nato war machine, on the dissolution of the north atlantic treaty, which has no democratic and moral legitimacy, on disarmament in europe and the need for immediate drastic cuts in armaments programmes and military expenditure, on respect for international law and the charter of the united nations. the continuing tendency of the dominant powers of the european union to identify foreign policy with military power and the nato military machine with the union's perspective is not only contrary to its declared values but also hinders any effort to build a europe and a world of peace, cooperation and solidarity between states and peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the aim is not to revise the council's 2010 cfsp report but to provide an approach on the future of the eu's strategy in the external environment. the lisbon treaty also provides that the union's competence in the field of the common foreign and security policy covers all areas of foreign policy, thus paving the way for a more coherent and consistent strategy. the new initiatives should, of course, strike the right balance and be based on realistic bases, taking into account the different economic, political and geo-strategic interests of each member state. the report, which i voted in favour of, takes these two points very well and, rather than simply calling for a new european security strategy, it contributes to the outline of the eu's external policy and to the establishment of benchmarks for monitoring and assessing progress in the years ahead.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr brok's report as it gives a good sense of the eu's priorities and strategic directions. i believe that it contains important steps towards the formulation of the union's foreign policy priorities in a long-term and strategic framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr haglund's report because i believe that the proposals it contains enhance the sustainability and recovery of fish stocks and reinforce the role and importance of multiannual recovery plans for fish stocks.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, personally, i find today's discussion unacceptable, not because i am not in solidarity with the romanian people, but on the contrary, because i believe that certain things that have been heard in this hall and certain things that have happened in the past are an insult to the romanian people and their democratic traditions. i believe that the romanian people are capable of finding a solution to the problem they are facing, all the more so, mr president, since i believe that the root of the problem lies in the very difficult, very bad social situation facing the people of romania. now i'd like to continue in greek, because it'll be easier for me to express myself. on behalf of the gue/ngl group mr. president, i think that this debate is the result of the unacceptable situation experienced by the romanian people. as you know, a harsh austerity programme is being implemented at its expense, a programme that is being generalized throughout the european union. the more cruel and unjust these measures are for the majority of workers, the more we will have such situations. in conclusion, i would like to say that those who warned the peoples of the former socialist countries that they would face very difficult and unacceptable situations, such as those in romania, when they joined the european union, were unfortunately right, because in addition to poverty and unemployment, they also suffered from the anti-democratic measures taken against them.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this is the second time this year that we have had to address a very serious situation concerning the rule of law in one of the member states of the european union. after hungary, romania. and the debate today, like those we have had in the past on a similar question, was very much led by party political concerns, similar attitudes in similar debates. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and this is why we always need to act with fairness and impartiality. when there is an attack on the rule of law or a breach of eu legislation, irrespective of the political colour of the government, the commission will remain firm in expressing concerns and taking actions, and this does not apply only now but has also applied in the past. i still remember a time when i took action on a very similar matter, which was in 2009 when i was telecoms commissioner. i started infringement proceedings against romania to protect the independence of the national telecoms regulator. at that time a right-wing government coalition had introduced emergency legislation to deprive a court ruling of its effect and to remove the president of the national telecoms regulator from office. it was the same rationale that the commission followed earlier this year when we brought hungary to the court of justice for violations of the independence of the hungarian data protection legislation and other infringement procedures. of course such legal issues may seem small in the overall context. so what about the big picture? what about the rule of law in general and what about the independence of the judiciary? i agree with those who asked these questions. yes, the commission has to play its role as guardian of the treaties and it has to go after breaches in eu law by means of infringement proceedings. it is a general principle, and small violations count too. what about the big violations? here i would to draw two lessons from the recent experiences. first, of course, we always need to tackle these matters with independence and objectivity. respect for the rule of law has nothing to do with the political party in power. for president barroso and for myself, this has been very important throughout these processes. lady justice is blind. she does not recognise party political colours. she only reacts to the rule of law which is in danger. secondly, we can see very well by these very concrete examples that we have experienced this year that we lack effective mechanisms in the eu to enforce respect for the rule of law more generally and more systematically. today everybody mentions the situation in hungary and romania. are we sure that we will not see such a situation again in a couple of weeks in another eu country? now let us be honest – and some of the parliamentarians have said it very clearly – we face a copenhagen dilemma. we are very strict on the copenhagen criteria, notably on the rule of law in the accession process of a new member state but, once this member state has joined the european union, we appear not to have any instrument to see whether the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary still command respect. we as a european union need to stand firm on our values and on the rule of law, and that is why i think that we need to put in place an objective mechanism to assess the judicial systems in all of our 27 member states, because our infringement procedures are too technical and too slow to react to high-risk situations concerning the rule of law, and because the article 7 procedure is a nuclear option that should only be used by the commission, parliament and the council when there is really no other solution. but what do we have in between? i would therefore like to work with the european parliament and with the justice ministers of all member states on a new intermediate and more focused mechanism. i propose to add to the economic and social benchmark in the european semester a new mechanism for measuring, comparing and benchmarking the strength, efficiency and reliability of the justice systems in all member states. (applause) so my experts are at this moment developing for the european semester a justice scoreboard that will allow a detailed assessment of the justice systems of all member states, their strengths and their weaknesses and i am going to start a discussion with parliament and with the justice ministers in the coming weeks. we europeans have built a community based on the rule of law – rechtsgemeinschaft as the germans say – and we therefore cannot allow the rule of law to become an object of any party political game. we need a strong, reliable rule of law in all 27 member states of the union and i count on this parliament to strongly support the european commission in this endeavour. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, as i promised i would at the outset, i have followed this debate closely and listened with interest to your remarks. i fully understand the unease with which this parliament has followed developments in romania over the summer. i have taken good note of all the criticisms i have heard in the course of the debate and i will, of course, convey all of them and all your comments to the council. as the presidency representative, i speak on behalf of the council as a whole and must therefore reflect the position of the council, and that applies in particular when we are addressing the situation in any one member state. it is particularly important however that this parliament also has the opportunity to make its views known and i therefore welcome the possibility of hearing your views at first hand. let me conclude by reminding you that – irrespective of the merits of the contradictory arguments aired here – the quintessence of democracy, stemming directly from socrates in ancient athens, is that you do not change the rules governing the operation of the democratic system for reasons of political expediency.
the debate on this point is closed.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on proposals for a european banking union by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy (o-000151/2012 - b7-0360/2012).
i have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the procedure for submitting questions with a blue card is being abused. colleagues from the same political group, whose views do not differ substantially, ask each other questions. i would point this out to you with all due respect for the right to freedom of expression and the procedures that exist.
mr barnier, president barroso, in this morning's debate, when he referred to the banking union, said that rules must be established to avoid the phenomenon of manipulating companies and mortgages through interest rates. this gives me the opportunity to observe that the commission is once again unable to see beyond its own field of vision and to see that not only companies and consumer mortgages but also member states are being manipulated through interest rates, lending and mortgages. in this case, both in greece and elsewhere, this is done by mortgaging public property and undermining any potential for development. the commission chooses to ignore certain things and acts as pontius pilate by recommending a different approach to bank recapitalisation in one country and a different one in another. the european central bank is refusing to cut its bonds. i understand that this is a step, a communication policy for more europe. but we ask you and you do not answer us about what will happen to the sovereign rights of countries, what will happen to the question of democracy, what will happen to labour rights, what will happen to the rights of workers and the future of the younger generation. unfortunately, what we are seeing coming is a europe dominated by neoliberalism as the ultimate doctrine.
mr president, the proposed arrangements are designed to provide fresh hot money for the banks, while at the same time pushing for even tougher austerity measures for all workers, because they will of course have to pay for the damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. social security, labour rights, free education and healthcare will unfortunately be a thing of the past. the wages of eur 250 will be generalized to ensure even greater profitability of capital in the post-crisis period. this is the bleak future that the politicians of the european union are preparing for all peoples because the crisis of capitalism cannot be overcome. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not only the european parliament that has been a great help to the people of europe, but also the european parliament, which has been a great help to the people of europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened to each of your speeches with particular attention. forgive me for not answering you individually this time, but i have an urgent transport obligation. i sincerely thank you for the diversity of your views and for the constructive and critical approach which you have adopted with regard to these two regulations proposed by the commission. what has cost - i'm telling some of you - taxpayer money is the fact that some banks have been poorly supervised. and what we are proposing is that, in the euro area and with the countries that will want to - this is an open process - banks, regardless of their size, should be supervised in a serious, integrated and effective way, precisely to protect consumers, businesses and citizens. and we shall go further, mr klute, on the question of consumer protection in the coming months. so the proposals we have made are balanced. many of you, mrs sharon bowles first, have mentioned the single market. i would remind you that regulation and supervision should not be confused. the regulation is the responsibility of the 27 countries and the single market, which i support as much as you do and for which we are responsible. and we will continue to build these rooms with the supervision of the 27, with the capitalisation for the 27 countries and the 8,000 banks, with the credit and deposit guarantee system and with the resolution systems. the 27 countries need this regulation, as well as two other pieces of legislation which we will be proposing on shadow banking and the separation of risks in banks, following the liikanen report. this will be the case for the 27 and the single market. the point is that within the euro area, because there is the euro and an additional need for stability, the personality, the nature of supervision will be different. she'll be more integrated. mr langen, we will take account of the role and place of the national supervisors. we are not going to do this from frankfurt every day for the six thousand banks. there will be a coordinated framework of work, which will be largely decentralized at the level of all the banks. i am, and we are, very concerned in our proposal about how countries which are not yet or not in the euro zone can be associated with this supervisory system. and finally, as you have understood, i am, like president barroso, attached to parliament. we have taken care to provide for parliamentary control systems for this supervisory board, and i will be the guarantor of the proper exercise of this parliamentary control in the implementation of this new regulation. i would like to remind you that the stability of the euro area, since that is what is at stake, is not only of interest to the euro area countries. it's all over europe. when the eurozone is fragile, when it is in crisis, the whole of europe suffers the consequences. and we must give ourselves the means to ensure the stability of this area. it is not the only answer, but it is a very important, i admit, component of integration in the euro area to ensure the stability of the euro area and, beyond that, of the whole single market.
i have received, pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 september 2012 at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 as regards the removal of certain countries from the list of regions or states which have concluded negotiations (com (2011) 0598 - c7-0305/2011 - 2011/0260 (cod)) (a7-0207/2012).
member of the commission. − mr president, i could give you one minute of my speaking time, for example, provided of course that you are not going to interrupt me afterwards! i understand a number of the remarks that have been made but i would urge you to stay with the facts as they are. what this is really about is that a number of countries have not yet signed and/or ratified an agreement they concluded in 2007. that is the reality. so this is about the past. the idea that we want to force them to conclude and ratify a definite and final economic partnership agreement is not correct. i have mentioned the eight countries – a limited number of countries – that could be affected in one way or another by what we are proposing. i will read them out again: cameroon, côte d’ivoire, fiji, ghana, kenya and swaziland – which are lower middle-income countries – and botswana and namibia, which are higher middle-income countries. it does not, in any way you could imagine, affect a developing country. in the developing countries you have two separate categories: the least developed countries (ldcs) who benefit from everything but arms – and that continues – and the other ones that benefit from the generalised system of preferences (gsp) or the gsp+. so it is not about those countries. what it is really about is countries – albeit a limited number of countries, but in a much bigger category if you look at it worldwide – where, if we do not put an end to the market access regulation in the form it exists, which is always considered to be temporary, unilateral access to the european markets would be created, with those countries exporting duty-free and quota-free products other than arms. that is what you would create. so in fact you would create inequality between the eight that i have mentioned and – i do not know how many but i would estimate – 50 or 60 worldwide that are in a different position. secondly, are we forcing anybody to do this? no. we are not. if they do not want to ratify the agreement that they themselves concluded in 2007, then they do not do have to do so. even then, our door is open to negotiating a new agreement with them. but i cannot see how we would be unfair or bullying or blackmailing (and a lot of similar words have been used here) in asking somebody who concluded an agreement in 2007 – that means five years ago, with a further three or four years of negotiations, and especially given that they should have adapted their system already – to now ratify what they signed, initialled and promised to ratify. do it! they have already had five to seven years, depending on the starting point, and we are giving them an additional year-and-a-half just to ratify, not to negotiate a new agreement but to ratify. is this unfair? is this blackmailing? is this jeopardising our position with respect to africa? really, i do not believe so. bernd lange spoke of a confrontation between a strong commission and weak states. that is what i heard you say. first of all, thank you for calling us strong: that is not bad. some of these states are weak but i did not mention the weakest, the ones that are in debt, the ldcs and the developing countries. we are talking here about lower and middle income countries. that is what we are talking about. the question is not whether they are weak or strong. the only thing we ask of them is to ratify what they negotiated and concluded in the past. we are not bullying them about anything other than living up to the commitments that they made quite some time ago. finally, a remark to mr keller, who said the policy would be contrary to my statement, which is also in the communication, that trade can promote development. that is not true because you can currently see, with the existing schemes, that the trade volume is going down drastically. why so? because trade is about more than just exporting something to another market. it is a means engaging with that market and having trade movements in both directions. it is about aid for trade and about establishing a vibrant marketplace that can export products to the european union. i would warmly welcome their doing that to a much greater extent than they have done in the past. personally i am very sad about the fact that the trade volume with africa is going down. it should be going up. i am ready to be very flexible in the economic partnership agreements (epas) that we still have to negotiate with a number of regional entities. i have no problem at all with asymmetry. i hope the countries concerned can export much more to the european union. we are ready to help them with aid for trade. we are ready to help them with trade facilitation – my colleague, andris piebalgs is in complete agreement with me about that – but they should live up to their commitments so that we can proceed and establish a sure legal system, legal obligations and legal rights in a negotiated framework. that is what we are asking for and that is also why i stand by the proposal that we have made. i really hope that tomorrow when you vote you take this into account. this proposal is not against developing countries and it is not against africa. on the contrary, it is for the good of having mature trade relations with countries that should develop and should take off. most of the countries that have not yet taken off are in sub-saharan africa, and that is no accident. we should do something about this. it is our moral duty to do so.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not the first time that we have sought to strengthen our common position on external energy relations. i can only agree with mr kariņš, who has described the whole process. i can only thank him for his commitment, his diplomatic skills and, as a result, his successful moderation of parliament. what's the matter? the first is that we have government agreements between member states and third countries which we know are not based 100% on european law, and are therefore incompatible with european law. we do not believe that these agreements were concluded by the member states because they wanted to annoy the european union, but that they were brought into these agreements by the supplying countries under pressure. so disclosure is the right way to see that contracts between member states and third countries are based on european law, on internal market law, and where this is not the case, that they need to be amended. it's about competitive advantages and disadvantages. if one supplier and his state know all the contracts, but the member states only know their own, then we are not on the same page. transparency rules can help to remedy this. then it's about investors. they are generally interested in private investment in networks, such as gas pipelines. these infrastructure projects require a certain degree of legal clarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. more transparency on the agreement's compatibility with european law will help to avoid unpleasant surprises, to avoid infringement proceedings, to create legal certainty and thus to encourage investment. the compromise reached now falls short of what we proposed and what parliament wanted. but it's an important first step. we have thus for the first time in history a european energy policy. the third party game of divide and rule will no longer be so easy. all the elements in the present proposal, namely the obligation to submit existing iga which have an impact on the internal market, the confirmation that the commission may request to participate in negotiations as an observer and to act in an advisory capacity, and the possibility to examine in advance, on request, the compatibility of negotiated agreements with eu law all this creates earlier clarity and strengthens the european internal market and the position of the member states vis-à-vis supplier countries, i.e. third countries. now we're going to put these into law just like that. i would like to thank you again for your excellent cooperation in parliament. but we will also look at how it works in practice. the strict monitoring and compliance with our current new laws in the coming years is to be controlled. the commission will be monitoring whether we have enough instruments. if not, we shall be proposing in a few years how to develop the subject of energy policy. it is a first step, a right one, and an important one, but there are certainly more steps to be taken. thank you for your cooperation.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, the new information exchange mechanism will in fact increase the consistency and coherence of the union's external energy relations, while also strengthening the union's strategic position in its relations with third countries. i am speaking today as the spokesman and rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs. it should not be forgotten that the european union remains heavily dependent on energy imports, making the functioning and energy supply of the energy market in many cases uncertain. this new mechanism can indeed substantially strengthen the bargaining power of the member states through the single european market and the commission's expertise in community law. at the same time, the legal certainty that will result for future investment decisions through a stable legal framework will make it easier for the union to finance relevant projects and may in several cases speed up the time to implementation. clearly the better coordination that can be achieved through this mechanism should not be interpreted as less flexibility in the member states. the whole project will be ancillary in nature and should not replace the member states as the competent entities for concluding energy agreements with third countries. the commission's involvement can, however, have a multiplier effect by effectively assisting the member states, particularly at the negotiating stage of such agreements.
on behalf of the efd group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. for example, we are currently dealing with the energy supply of lithuania, in which the commission has already opened an investigation against gazprom for antitrust practices. this report can solve such problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we hope that the new mechanism will not disrupt the existing good energy situations and relations of the member states with third countries.
mr president, mr kariņš, congratulations on your report, it was very rational. i have a question, commissioner, on the procedure for examining transnational agreements: the commission's external affairs service will play a decisive role? i think that energy should be outside the rules of foreign policy, because energy is characterized by a long duration and predictability which foreign relations do not have.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the products and the quality of the services provided by the european union. i think that the proposals for mountain products should also apply to products from island farming, so that they too can be included in the system of optional quality indications. we can all understand the peculiarities of islands, their serious disadvantages, their permanence, their physical and demographic problems, their distance from the centre, their small size, the difficult topography of the land, their climatic peculiarities, their dependence on activities with limited possibilities. many of these elements give specific and particularly high quality characteristics to agricultural products and the labelling of these products as island products would allow an increase in their added value. i would therefore ask the commissioner to indicate what action is envisaged to promote this prospect and, of course, if possible, within what timeframe.
madam president, behind the fine words of the directive on cultural heritage, there are, in my view, the interests of the monopoly groups operating in the field of digital technologies and the internet. the purpose of the directive is not, as agreed with the council, the preservation, conservation, promotion, dissemination and access to cultural creation and heritage, but a highly profitable activity, namely the large-scale digitisation of archives and collections and the creation of european digital libraries. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the directive, with its cleverly worded provisions, opens the way to the commercialisation of orphan works and their use for the benefit of private capital. it thus allows, first, the contracting out of the search for the author to private undertakings, for a fee, and, second, the contracting out of the digitisation to private individuals, in public-private partnerships, while at the same time charging users a fee, using the digitisation of those works as a pretext. in this way, the entire digitisation and distribution work will be passed on to the business groups while the workers will be required to pay for the use of the projects. we are seeing once again that all the decisions of the european union lead to commercialisation. it is a policy that is bombing the foundations of civilization and it is a policy that must be changed.
in writing. the european parliament often seeks transparency and access to all community documents and information in its reports, as a basis and prerequisite for democracy and to facilitate the work of the ep. the extension of the ec's powers by the treaty of lisbon also covers the field of international agreements. in this context, parliament pursued and achieved a number of key objectives in the negotiations, including access to classified information for members and ep staff on ep premises, in accordance with ep security rules. the draft agreement, which i voted in favour of, concerns access to classified information on matters beyond the closed area of the common foreign and security policy, such as the so-called mixed agreements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on european social entrepreneurship funds, which makes important additions by improving the commission's original text. the ep emphasises the supervisory level in order to ensure that the resources of the egtcs are used properly and to eliminate the risk that the egtcs are used for other purposes unrelated to the promotion of social entrepreneurship. it also extends the number of companies that could join the fund to include those whose objective is to achieve social impact rather than generate profit for owners and shareholders. since such patterns are also observed in greece, this provision will benefit our country in this difficult period for entrepreneurship and the labour market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the auconie report because i believe that the measures it proposes help to tackle the social consequences of the financial crisis. the common framework of rules on the use of the name 'european social entrepreneurship fund' contributes to the good functioning of the internal market.
in writing. the rich cultural heritage of the eu should be given equal protection and promoted. the fact that a very large part of this heritage is unused in archives and libraries and in some cases completely unavailable to the citizens of the european union makes it necessary to create a regulatory framework. the report, which i voted in favour of, proposes that orphan works should be made available digitally so that all citizens can benefit without having to move them. europeana has already made a significant contribution to this; however, it does not yet include orphan works. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of copyright and related rights in the field of intellectual property. the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the permissible uses of orphan works will pave the way for their exploitation in books, newspapers, magazines and films, while respecting copyright in all cases, even if the owner cannot be found.
in writing. we live in a digital age. improving the system for managing copyright is essential to support innovation and creativity within the single market.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs and security has called for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained. as with libya, the european parliament is becoming a beacon and paving the way for a new criminal imperialist intervention by military means against the syrian people. it boldly and provocatively demands the creation of so-called "humanitarian aid" zones and corridors, which will serve as the no-fly zone in libya - the necessary pretext for military operations by the eu-us-nato imperialists that will bloodshed the syrian people. the joint resolution is already preparing the open intervention of the imperialists by invoking the 'right to protect civilians' to give the necessary legitimacy to military operations. it seeks to coordinate the various military gangs into a single opposition to give the eu-us-nato criminal plans for the control and exploitation of the resources and peoples of the region a non-existent popular support. it is imperative that the peoples step up their anti-imperialist action. to fight against the new crime of the imperialists. to block the way to intervention, imperialist war and bloodshed of the peoples of the middle east and the wider region
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the rapid delivery of humanitarian aid to syria is necessary because international humanitarian law must be fully respected by all those involved in the crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution as the human rights situation in russia has deteriorated dramatically in recent months and the necessary measures must be taken to protect civil society, freedom of expression and assembly.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, as president of the council, it is a pleasure for me to attend parliament’s debate on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. on 11 september i also had the honour of presenting to you in detail the council’s position on the draft budget for 2013, as adopted by the council on 24 july. last week, at the budgetary trialogue, i had the opportunity of giving some initial reactions to the amendments which the european parliament intends to vote on. i wish to recall that the council reached an agreement on its position on the draft budget for 2013, following difficult negotiations, and accepted a limited increase in commitments and payment appropriations compared to 2012. we are all aware of the considerable effort and budgetary constraints that member states are currently facing at national level, and we have to take these into account. i believe that, as the member states endeavour to consolidate their budgets, it is crucial to deliver the right message to european citizens. today i will take note of the positions taken by the european parliament. let me now focus on some issues to which the council attaches particular importance. firstly, the council considers that the existing ceilings of the multiannual financial framework must be respected. it is also important to ensure adequate margins under the different ceilings in order to be able to cope with unforeseen situations. the council is therefore concerned about the european parliament’s amendments, which considerably reduce the margins in all headings, the only exception being heading 5. moreover, the european parliament proposes to go beyond the ceilings of subheading 1a, requiring the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. secondly, the council regrets the increasing payment appropriations that the european parliament intends to vote on, especially when their level exceeds the commission’s draft budget. the council is aware of the european parliament’s intentions to support and highlight several of its political priorities. however, the overall level of payment appropriations retained should be sufficient but not overestimated. thirdly, the council wishes to find an agreement with the european parliament on a reasonable level of payment appropriations for the current budgetary year, including draft amending budget no 5, the global transfer and the upcoming draft amending budget no 6. finally, i would like to remind you that the council is opposed to the broad use of reserves that you intend to vote on, especially when their release is accompanied by conditions which are not in line with the provisions of the financial regulation. appropriations should only be entered in the reserve in the absence of a basic act and in cases of serious doubt about the adequacy of the appropriations or their implementation. to conclude, let me reiterate the council’s hope and conviction that the existing excellent climate of cooperation will prevail during the rest of the budgetary procedure, leading to a mutually-satisfying agreement on the 2013 budget. we fully respect the european parliament and your intentions, even when we are not in a position to entirely share the stance you adopt.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, minister, we are discussing the budget for 2013, the last year of this financial perspective. however, we should draw on the experience of the tensions we have in this year’s budget; they should be kept very strongly in mind. therefore i welcome –not surprisingly– the reading of the proposal by the committee on budgets about the restoration of our draft proposal for next year. we share the same priorities. it is very clear to me that budgetary efforts nowadays should undertaken be in close conjunction with the growth, jobs and competitiveness agenda of the european union. this should not be just an illusion of a growth strategy; it should be very well equipped with money. we notice that parliament is very restrained as to the level of commitments. that is why it is leaving some unallocated margins for unforeseen events, and it is easy to foresee that this will also be needed for next year. last friday we adopted the amending budget for agriculture for next year that more or less confirms our early estimates, but as mr la via clearly stated, the main sensitive issue is the level of payments. we cannot endorse the council’s decision to cut our proposal by more than eur 5 billion, because this is simply contradicting earlier announcements on the growth and jobs agenda for europe: they were made in june, and in july come cuts of that amount. this ignores the reality of what is really needed this year, and next, and we cannot simply continue with the systematic underfunding of the european budget, as it is hindering the implementation of so many programmes. this year we should also base our programming of the implementation of the budget – which is now more than eur 10 billion bigger than last year (an indication of the maturity of many programmes) – on the need to cover this year all that should be paid this year in order to enter next year with a clear vision of what is really needed in 2013 and not carry forwards all the accumulated problems. in some areas we are really running short of money. for example, for the social fund we have to stop payments in the area of competitiveness, as there are no more resources available. there is a very high level of implementation generally in cohesion funding. as for the research grants, they already needed to be reinforced back in july. so the tension this year indicates the need for an amending and correcting budget for this year in order to cover what is really needed in the remaining period of this year before we can discuss and agree on the 2013 level. i think the position on administration that mr vaughan takes is the right one. we should be constrained, but of course there are limits to savings, given the new responsibilities of the european union. so this should be below the level of inflation. our letter of executability is coming soon in order to complete the full picture. that is also about pilot projects and preparatory actions. of course we are not happy with the reserves, but i understand that we could end the conciliation after the written explanations without reserves. our role is to submit everything that is needed as the basis for sound programming for 2013 so that parliament has a full picture of what is really reasonable in the 2013 budget.
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. - the mr president, mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for another year the committee on budgets of the european parliament has taken a responsible position by rejecting the horizontal cuts introduced by the council. these cuts are not in line with the real needs of the european union and are in complete contradiction with the pact for growth and employment agreed by the 27 heads of state or government last june. let me concentrate on title 1b. we all agree that cohesion policy is the main and most appropriate investment instrument which can lead the european union to growth and job creation by addressing precisely the investment needs of the regions. it also makes a decisive contribution to the effective reduction of regional disparities and the achievement of social, economic and territorial cohesion. we as the european parliament must ensure, and we do, that the various policies of the european union are adequately financed, particularly those which lead to growth, jobs and investment.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. - the mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, mr la via and mr vaughan, for their report on the draft general budget for the financial year 2013. as the committee on petitions, our opinion is basically about the european ombudsman's expenditure and budget forecasts for the current financial year. i would like to point out that the increase in the budget of the european ombudsman this year is 3.89% and that this increase is for technical reasons, such as the increase in the rent in strasbourg and the forced move to new offices in brussels because the european parliament decided to convert the current offices into a museum. the expenditure is therefore inflexible and should not be considered as a substantial increase in the cost of the european ombudsman's procedures for this relocation, which has a crisis-time cost for parliament. finally, i would like to point out that the increase in appropriations for contractors by some eur 110 000 is, according to our information, perfectly normal and subject to the general staff regulations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 23 october 2012, at 12.30.
the next item is the report by mrs antigone papadopoulos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the european year of citizens (2013) (com (2011) 0489 - c7-0217/2011 - 2011/0217 (cod)) (a7-0271/2012).
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. - the mr president, i congratulate mrs antigone papadopoulos on her excellent work and the very important report she presented on the european citizen. i hope that the initiative will be substantial and not just a mere formality. the committee on petitions, which i represent here, is putting forward proposals and in particular stressing the right of every citizen of the union and every natural or legal person who contributes to the deepening of democratic institutions to refer matters to the european parliament. we place particular emphasis on the right of citizens to free movement, including as a means of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and as such we consider the mobility of young people, especially students, to be of vital importance to the european union. the commission should also be able to provide information to citizens on their rights, in particular through the european e-justice portal. i would like to say, mr president, that we are all very happy to support the commission's proposals, but we are not prepared to accept them. the economic crisis we are experiencing has disrupted people's relationships. i hope that the european union will be given the opportunity to re-establish these relations. the crisis will pass.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. twenty years after the concept of european citizenship was adopted by the european union, we celebrate the european year of citizens in 2013. this is linked not only to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, and especially of persons, not only to cross-border relations and cooperation, but also to the rights of citizens as expressed in the lisbon treaty, e.g. the citizens' initiative and consultation which are of enormous importance. if there is one drawback to the union today, it is precisely that many of its citizens know something general and vague about the union, but do not know who is doing what, with what responsibility and at what level. and because governments tend to assume or propagate that everything good comes from national governments and, conversely, everything bad comes from brussels, the european year of citizens can therefore offer an opportunity to understand things better, to raise awareness among european citizens so that they realise that it is possible to have both access to information and participation. in fact, mr president, with the new report being prepared, european political parties will have access to and direct participation in european political parties, which will give them a great deal of flexibility, help national political parties and in general make citizens better aware of what the european union is and where it is going.
mr president, it is very important indeed to speak in the context of the european year of citizens about the problems of citizens, and 2013 is very crucial because it is a year before the european elections, so it will be able to determine the image that citizens will have of europe and of the european parliament and what they will vote for, while at the same time they will vote for europe, and not just for a party. on the other hand, it is a year which comes after several years of crisis and we must convince that europe has solutions to the problems of citizens, it does not have solutions only for numbers. it is very important that there should be more europe, european solutions to the crisis, but not linked to austerity, not just to the deprivation of citizens' rights. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we want more europe, we want european citizenship and we want citizens to be involved in politics and to be heard.
mr president, in greece in crisis the far right is becoming more and more nightmarish. golden dawn operates as a paramilitary force with assault battalions abusing civilians, with mps threatening their colleagues and speaking vulgarly in parliament. i am afraid that at this level too greece will be only the beginning. the responsibility of the political system as a whole is great because it has faced a neo-fascist party, whose leader greets with a nazi salute, as any party. but the government in particular has the primary responsibility. when the minister of public order does not punish the police officers who allow a golden dawn mp to release arrested people in incidents, when the minister of the interior answers a parliamentary question from that party about the number of foreign children in kindergartens, while it is clear that citizenship is not a criterion for enrollment in them, then democracy is in danger. the greek government must prove that there is a coordinated state and that greek society is not unprotected and this bet is as important as economic recovery. the european union must respond in every way to the rise of fascism in europe.
mr president, the harsh social reality that greece is experiencing today is unprecedented in its post-war history. soaring unemployment, especially among young people, growing child malnutrition, unprecedented homelessness and suicide make up a very dark picture. violent attitudes, racist views and extremist forces with neo-nazi characteristics have never had the slightest resonance in greece. today they do! social cohesion is dangerously fractured. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. can europe emerge from the crisis without losing its soul? the next few days and weeks are extremely critical. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
mr president, both the opportunities and the challenges facing island regions have to do with the specificities of islands: the islands face serious difficulties in transport and fuel prices, which have been rising since the economic crisis, but at the same time they are a fertile ground for research and development in renewable energy sources. however, the existing european measures for islands do not result from a single plan or are based on a comprehensive assessment of the situation of island regions. although three years have already passed since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which in article 174 emphasises island status, we have not yet developed a truly integrated approach to islands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy performance of the member states. for example, parliament has in a written statement since the beginning of the year called for support for sustainability in the islands to meet or exceed the eu 2020 targets. the commission has not yet responded to this request.
mr president, when more than 100 000 passengers were affected by the eruption of the icelandic volcano in april 2010, member states were quick to declare that the single european sky could not be delayed any longer. europe needed, and did not have, the flexibility of a common airspace. two and a half years later, we are in a political impasse in which the immediate completion of the single european sky seems rather utopian, and the formal establishment of the functional airspace blocks (fabs) is even delayed, which, moreover, does not guarantee an improvement in aviation performance. what is needed at this moment is the political will to overcome bureaucracy and the interests of the immovable, to subdue national egos. and that is why, especially today, we must not overlook the weight that symbolism also has. the single european sky is a technical project with known benefits - which have already been mentioned - but at the same time it is a symbol of european integration and we should remember this.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me first thank you for the invitation to participate in this important debate. we all know how critical it is that we get the future multiannual financial framework right. the council attaches the highest importance to the timely conclusion of this agreement. it will give the union the means to act and the capacity to implement its policies. the timing of the agreement is crucial, but so is the quality. we also welcome the very close cooperation on this issue with this parliament. i am particularly grateful to mr lamassoure and the two co-rapporteurs for this file, reimer böge and ivailo kalfin, for their commitment to this dossier and for their determination to ensure that we reach an outcome which is acceptable to both institutions. the cyprus presidency has attached particular importance to continuing the practice of meeting regularly with you, and we will continue to do so until we have an agreement. i would also like to thank mr jean-luc dehaene and ms anna jensen for their work on the revenue side. the cyprus presidency is also working very closely with the president of the european council as the dossier moves up to the level of the heads of state and government. over the last few years, the european union and its member states have taken important steps in response to the challenges raised by the economic and financial crisis. looking to the future, the next mff must ensure that the european union’s budget is geared to lifting europe out of the crisis in a sustainable way. we all agree that the budget must act as a catalyst for growth and jobs across europe, in particular by leveraging productive and human capital investments. within the future multiannual financial framework, spending needs to be mobilised in order to support growth, employment, competitiveness and convergence, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. at the same time we are all aware of the constraints under which we are working. at a time of exceptional fiscal discipline it is essential that the future mff reflects the consolidation efforts being made by member states to bring their deficits and debt onto a more sustainable path. we must ensure that every euro spent brings european added value and that particular attention is given under the future mff to the quality of spending. the work is advancing well. you have seen the revised version of the negotiating box which we produced for the general affairs council in september. we also had an informal discussion in the margins of the general affairs council last week in luxembourg. your contribution through your representatives on that occasion was highly appreciated. later this week we will issue a revised version of the negotiating box. this will put forward an overall approach which will provide a range of figures for various qualitative elements in order to make proposals for the qualitative issues which are linked to the various spending areas. concerning own resources, the presidency yesterday released a non-paper to stimulate the discussion, particularly on the very sensitive issue of corrections. discussions are of course continuing within the council, and i am therefore not able, at this stage, to give you a clearer position on how the debate on the mff or own resources is likely to evolve, but the cyprus presidency remains confident that, together with parliament, we will soon be able to outline the parameters of agreement with greater certainty. as you know, the president of the european council has convened a special european council on 22/23 november and has announced that he is ready to prolong the meeting, should it prove necessary. the cyprus presidency very much shares this objective, and it is with this in mind that we are continuing to work intensively with all the member states and yourselves in the run-up to the november meeting. mr president, honourable members, we have been following closely your discussions on the interim report drawn up by reimer böge and ivailo kalfin on which you will be voting later. i wish to thank both of them for their work on this report. it contains a number of important points, which we will bring to the attention of member states. the same applies to the revenue side and own resources, mr dehaene’s report and the work of ms anne jensen. i want to thank them, too, for their excellent work and cooperation. we have had throughout – and we hope that this will continue – an outstanding level of cooperation with committee chairman mr lamassoure and the whole negotiating team of the european parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you personally, mr president, for your personal involvement and assistance and, most of all, your strong commitment to providing the european union with the most important instrument in our hands for living up to our ambitions for growth and jobs for the young generation, in order for all of us to honour the contract between generations. achieving the best possible result on the mff for the common good of europe is not just a priority of the cyprus presidency, it is a joint endeavour involving this parliament as well as the commission and the european council. following the award of the nobel prize to the european union, we must more than ever show european citizens that we are able to unite around a fundamental part of the european project by doing everything to make the european union more relevant, to prove that the european union is part of the solution and to offer to each eu citizen a better future. i look forward to hearing your views on this issue.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly we would like to thank you for the opportunity to respond to the european parliament’s interim report on the next financial framework. we all agree that this proposal is probably the most important item on the agenda of the european parliament, the council and the commission. through the decision on the mff we are clearly sending a message to the outside world on whether we are able to deliver on europe 2020, have enough resources to fund our common policies and can play our important role on the international stage. we are also all aware that, for the first time, the multiannual financial framework is being negotiated under the new treaties. both janusz lewandowski and myself have been strong supporters of the clear will of parliament to exercise its right fully. i would like to thank the cyprus and danish presidencies for having established a very good framework and excellent cooperation with parliament’s negotiating team and with the commission. i would say, in particular, that the informal exchange of views before the last general affairs council was very important in this respect. as you know, the general affairs council is the place where the discussions on the mff are taking place. it is where janusz and i have been defending the commission’s proposals and where there is also active involvement of the european parliament in the whole process. we have studied your interim report in great detail and we very much support your starting point that this is an investment budget. we have to repeat this message again and again, because this is the message we have sometimes lost in the negotiations and in the europe-wide discussions. we have a very strong argument on our side, because even the european council recognised the catalysing role of the eu budget when it adopted the compact for growth and jobs in june. if you allow me, i shall make a couple of comments on the more horizontal issues before i hand over to my colleague janusz lewandowski, who handles all budget questions for the commission. first, on the question of the volume of the budget, we are convinced that our proposal of 1.08 % of gni represents a credible budget and is a balanced figure which would enable us to stabilise the financing of the cap and the cohesion policy and allow for a noticeable increase in the eu 2020 strategy priorities. we very much appreciate the focus parliament has put on the improved quality of the spending of the eu budget, because we would like to achieve a qualitative leap in terms of eu funding and european added value. we would like to increase the efficiency, effectiveness and simplification of their delivery. on the issue of the application of macro-economic conditionality, i take note of the report’s opposition to the commission’s proposal, and i would just like to underline that the commission’s proposal has been conceived not as coercive measures but rather to incentivise structural reforms and thus optimise effectiveness and absorption capacity. they are not meant to penalise the member states or regions that need financial support most urgently, but rather to ensure that precious capital will actually help address the very deficiencies identified in country-specific recommendations. on specific points raised in the report on administrative expenditure, i can confirm that the 5 % staff reduction over a period of five years is a major effort in the face of the crisis. it is an effort to which all institutions and agencies should contribute. finally, the issue of timing. i know that most of us in this chamber are convinced that we need a decision before the end of the year so that we can continue with efficient spending after 1 january 2014.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start with the own resources issue. i would like to thank the european parliament right away for giving real impetus to the reforms and discussions. after the unhappy and rapid end of previous attempts, it was the european parliament, through its resolution, and alain lamassoure personally, who again initiated the attempt to reform the revenue side. alain was the person most insistent at the time that we should go ahead with a reform of the revenue side. parliament’s interim report contains a very forceful message – namely the unity of the budget. unity can be understood in different dimensions, but it is essential to understand the unity of the european budget as the complementary nature of expenditure and revenue. expenditure and revenue should reinforce each other and not stand in each other’s way. so we are agreed as to the deficiencies of the present system and the remedies. it is important to know that the commission today decided to authorise enhanced cooperation on a financial transaction tax. so the ball is now in play, as it is also with the vat system which will replace the current – very complex – statistical vat system. to complete the revenue side of the story: if one wants – and as london, for example, has said we need – a more transparent, simple and fair system of revenue, then we have the system of annual corrections, which is very transparent, simple and fair for everybody. i will now make a few points on horizontal issues, starting with flexibility. if there are more constraints, we need more flexibility. that is clear. what is less easy to foresee are unforeseen events, so therefore the emphasis on flexibility in our package has been increased. there is also a very clear signal in this respect in your interim report, and i would like to underscore the use of the so-called contingency margin. this has been useful on several occasions under the current financial framework – for example, the economic recovery plan was made possible through contingency margin decisions – but we are basing this on the acquis accumulated in this financial period and the experience of this financial period. so we are leaving things open on how to shape flexibility properly in the 2014-2020 budget. on the so-called ‘large-scale projects’, our decision to place galileo in and gms iter outside was based on the different nature of those large-scale projects. but what is essential is to ensure their proper financing, perhaps by ring-fencing, so again here we are in agreement. we are also in agreement, i am happy to inform you, as to the infamous ‘reste-à-liquider’ (ral). rals are generated through annual budgeting, and the only real solution to the issue of these outstanding ral commitments is through proper annual budgets and not through artificial devices that kill the predictability of commitments. a final point concerns simplification, which is a universal request that has come from every corner of the european union and on which we have to deliver. we have to deliver, and we have a new financial regulation. inga gräßle was a very tough partner in this negotiation, but it was very much conducive to the final goal of simplification. now, the second stage is to ensure against the propensity to make it more complex at the level of 57 spending programmes. so we need a scan of what is sectoral, in order not to allow a watering-down of the simplification proposal under the financial regulation. with such important and experienced players as today’s speakers, i am sure that we can offer the european union a decent 2014-2020 budget that provides predictability of investment for that seven-year period.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the the multiannual financial framework, mr president, will be maintained for seven years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems that the council is calling for substantial cuts, which are contrary to the real situation of the union and to the economic crisis, because the multiannual financial framework can indirectly help. as regards the global europe section of the external action service, the european commission has rightly proposed increased funding and this should be there because the union has to play its international role and respond to unforeseen policies or other situations that arise on a daily basis. the european union must therefore be able to use all the instruments it has at its disposal, both for the various interventions in the beneficiary countries, particularly those which are being democratized, and for the external action service itself. mr president, parliament must support, on the whole, the increase in the multiannual financial framework as proposed by this house, and insist on it, because to remain within the framework that the council wants would also be an unacceptable symbol for the citizens of europe of how the council of the european union sees tackling its fundamental problems.
madam president, we all agree today that the multiannual financial framework is of paramount importance for the coming period, a period characterized - as everyone has said today - by high unemployment, recession and negative growth rates. so while we are all aware of the needs we have, it is particularly striking that for the allocation of funds, and i am referring in particular to the cohesion fund and the regional development fund, and i would like a reply from the commission and the presidency if possible, we take account of economic size and per capita income in the regions from the years 2009 and 2010. i would point out that this leads to great injustices, because from then until now we have had very rapid changes and adverse developments, in greece for example the economic contraction reached about 18.4%, a figure that is equivalent to that of germany and america during the great depression. does the commission see this injustice? i know that this has been put forward by the greek government. will we have any progress on this?
in writing . while the european parliament understands the budgetary constraints and rationalisation efforts of the member states, it must insist that the eu's long-term budget is a strategic tool for investment, growth and competitiveness and, of course, job creation across europe. the commission's proposal is to make the european union more competitive in the world market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's development policy is not only a policy of development, but also a policy of development. cohesion policy is the main part of the response to the crisis, as it makes a decisive contribution to growth and job creation and deserves and is entitled to adequate resources. the european parliament therefore argues that cohesion policy funding should be maintained at least at the 2007-2013 level. by maintaining the current level of budget and with a modern, thematically targeted and results-oriented cohesion policy, i am convinced that we will achieve much more.
mr president, as regards the nobel peace prize, i would say to you, gentlemen - you who are to receive it - that you should give due credit to the european citizen who really deserves it, namely the citizen of the south, who can no longer even survive in the conditions in which he finds himself, and the european citizen of the north, who continues to support the south in a spirit of european solidarity. these two citizens are fighting and remaining steadfast in their european vision. mr president, since we have entered into a growth and employment agenda, i would say that we should look at the fact that the amounts of the structural funds, which are intended for the south and which are crucial for their development, are not being reduced.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. without the growth dimension, fiscal consolidation efforts will fail. the capital increase of the european investment bank is an important step and can indeed have multiplier effects, particularly in countries undergoing fiscal adjustment. the citizens of my country, and of other countries, who are experiencing the harsh realities of fiscal adjustment, must soon come out of this situation. the single supervisory mechanism is indeed an element of the deepening of monetary union and its creation must be accelerated. banks are too often part of the problem, rather than part of the solution. mr president, there have been comments here on whether or not there is equality between the sexes. we must move from talk to action. europe has won the nobel prize not only for what it has done in the past 60 years but also for what it must do in the future, and more particularly in the immediate future, as a factor of stability, democracy, freedom, social justice and development.
mr president, the last european council confirmed that in the medium and long term there are good chances of moving in the right direction, but in the short term what is urgent is to overcome the crisis and that is why we need speed in decisions in the spirit of social justice, respect for democracy and consistency in implementation. and that is why, mr president of the commission, it is important and we welcome the decision of the european commission to put forward today the proposal for enhanced cooperation on the introduction of a financial transaction tax, because the truth is that it is one of the few socially fair measures that we have been able to introduce in this period. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens must be convinced that their sacrifices are worthwhile, because without the citizens there can be no success in implementation and the union can help in this if it is consistent with its commitments.
in writing. the debate in the european parliament's plenary on the outcome of the eu summit on 18/19-10-2012 confirms the kke's assessment that the attack of capital, eu and bourgeois governments against the working class and popular strata is intensifying, in the context of inter-imperialist rivalries, both within the eu and with other imperialist centres and the dynamically rising capitalist economies which are intensifying in the face of the dead ends of the bourgeois management of the capitalist crisis. what unites them is their strategic choice to cheapen the labour force, to crush the lives and rights of the working class in all member states, in order to meet the ruthless monopoly competition. this is a disgusting reality which cannot be hidden either by the sham award of the 'nobel peace prize' to this imperialist wolf pack or by the 'magnificent' plans 'for a real economic and monetary union'. plans for greater integration of the eurozone and the eu are accompanied by the intensity of the centrifugal tendencies that are developing as they stumble upon the insurmountable contradictions between the bourgeois classes over the distribution and extent of the destruction of capital, overcoming the crisis and the difficulties of managing it that they entail.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the european parliament, in drawing up the new budget, is placing emphasis on supporting sustainable growth, competition and employment, particularly for smes and young people. for our country, where the youth unemployment rate is 55% (a negative record in the eu), adherence to this target group is an absolute priority. the text also makes it clear that savings at community level, although necessary, cannot be made at the expense of initiatives which support the european economy and growth. in this context, i voted against an amendment which affects, among other things, the agricultural production of certain products in our country.
in writing. the dispute over the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 between those who want to reduce the budget and those who seek to increase it, attempts to hide its class orientation which is the allocation of workers' money to the strengthening and financing of the eu monopoly groups in the form of community funds. the common denominator of both conceptions is the strengthening of the competitiveness - profitability of the monopoly groups based in eu member states in the merciless war between themselves and with other imperialist centres as well as the emerging imperialist powers to secure their profits and control the markets. the european parliament proposes to restructure spending to strengthen the eu's most reactionary features, such as the european external action service (eeas), the galileo space and war programme, centres of excellence in research, etc. the allegedly strong resistance of the european parliament (jointly supported by the political representatives of capital and the opportunists) to the reduction of funds is yet another theatrical manipulation of popular forces, concealing that any increase in funds is directed at strengthening the monopoly groups and is accompanied by an intensification of the attack on the rights of the working class and the popular strata.
in writing. the question of the transfer of taxes from the member states to the community budget has been a matter of concern to the union almost since its inception. this regulation proposes a specific method to be used by the member states to calculate this new vat resource and to determine the procedures for its transfer to the eu budget. the proposal would base the new eu vat own resource on a percentage of vat on supplies of goods and services, purchases and imports subject to a standard vat rate in each member state. this ensures greater transparency and less need for adjustments to the vat base. however, the complex calculation method still exists and the question of direct taxation to the eu budget without having to be collected first by national administrations remains open today. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which embraces the commission's positive proposals, while at the same time setting out the shortcomings and the further actions and initiatives to be taken.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for sweden to support the redundancies at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca. the swedish authorities argue that the pharmaceutical sector is increasingly affected by globalisation. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of sweden is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2013 [2012/2817 ((rsp)) ] i would remind members that there is no 'catch-the-eye' procedure for this debate.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i will try to react to the comments made in the interventions by the honourable members concerning the commission’s work programme. i am very sorry that i was not able to deliver the text of the commission’s work programme because it was approved just one-and-a-half hours ago. we had wanted to present it to the house immediately. however, now it has been adopted, i am sure that it will be available very soon, today. concerning the relationship between delegated and implementing acts, we have been working together with mr szájer on a common understanding on how to use delegated acts and how to use implementing acts. we both agree that the source of our proposals, whether we propose delegated or implementing acts, should be the treaty, because it is very clear on what kind of policies you need delegated acts for and for what kind of policies you need implementing acts. this was a topic we discussed at great length with the conference of presidents and with the conference of committee chairs. what we agreed was that we need to coordinate much better in our legislative process, and much earlier on, because what happens sometimes is that the delegated versus implementing act issue becomes a bargaining chip at the end of negotiations, which is not correct. very often this makes things legally unsound, and the commission has very often had to approach the european court of justice to reverse some of the decisions which have been adopted in the legislative process following the choice in our review of the wrong legal instrument for a particular legislative proposal. a suggestion would be to cooperate closer early on, to respect the treaty and not to use delegated or implementing acts as a bargaining chip at the end of the legislative process. concerning the regulatory burden, here we have absolutely the same view, which is that we need to reduce it. the commission has already put on the legislative table proposals for reducing the administrative burden by more than 31%. it is now our common task – and the commission will take this very seriously – to see how this possibility is actually being used at member state level. we are working together very intensely, but we do not always see all the simplifications we have introduced at european level trickle down to the national level. we have to continue to work on this together, so that the real reduction of the administrative burden is also felt at national level. i agree with mr harbour that there is always something to learn and improve on when it comes to the impact assessments. i consider we have been doing this for some time already, and i am very glad that the european parliament is also introducing its own capacity to perform impact assessments on the amendments proposed in parliament. i believe that through mutual efforts we can really improve the quality of the overall impact assessments for our proposals. concerning our efficiency, for the year 2012 there is a proposal for 16 main initiatives. we have delivered eight already, and it is still not the end of the year. so i believe we will respect our traditional high level of fulfilment of our programmes. i have checked the figures, and in 2010-2011 we always delivered on over 90% of what was in the programme. if we have slightly different figures, then let our experts get together so they can work on the same basis and arrive at the same figures. concerning the employment crisis, i fully agree with enrique guerrero salom that this should be a top priority for the next year, as i indicated in my introductory remarks. this december we will introduce the youth employment package, as part of which we will propose the youth employment guarantee scheme. this will be based a little on the experience we have gathered through the work of the eight action teams we sent to the member states with the highest youth unemployment. we believe that through the quick and swift reallocation of funds – which in most cases has already been done – we can create more than 400 000 jobs for young people that will be supported directly by the eu funds. this morning we were discussing the mff. i can tell you that in my remarks to the council there is one line which is repeated in all my remarks – make sure that 25% of the eu funds under the next financial perspective are devoted to the european social fund. the commission is very clear on this. we are saying that any kind of reduction in that percentage is not acceptable. i hope that we will be able to convince the member states of this, because i also see it as a reflection of our using eu support to create the conditions for youth and the elderly to be employed and to have proper qualifications. the last issue, which was repeated by several speakers, is the situation concerning my former colleague, commissioner dalli and the tobacco directive. concerning the resignation of commissioner dalli, it was quite clear that, after the olaf investigation and the discussion of the olaf report by the president of the commission and the commissioner, his position was untenable, especially vis-à-vis the reputation of the european commission. therefore, as you know, the process has already started for the appointment of the new commissioner. i believe, after my initial contacts here in the european parliament, that we can hold the hearing of the new commissioner within a couple of weeks and that the new commissioner could be in office very soon. i have already discussed the plan for the coming weeks with the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we will have a meeting with mr harbour in a couple of minutes. what i want to make absolutely sure is that the work which has been started will continue. all the trialogue sessions will continue as planned. concerning the tobacco directive, for the commission it is absolutely vital that it is this legislator, this parliament, which will work on the tobacco directive. we want to make absolutely sure that we will present a good proposal upon which i believe this parliament can reach at least a first reading agreement. of course, it would be much more natural if the new commissioner could start this process from the beginning, through the trialogues, until the end. i was very encouraged by the possible schedule for the appointment of the new commissioner. i believe that the timescale will be very short, and i can assure you that it is a top priority for the commission to present the tobacco directive in time for this parliament to decide upon it.
the debate on the commission's work programme for 2013 has ended. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the recommendation by mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on the verification of conformity and acceptance of industrial products (vacp). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the project.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a purely political matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i too worked with my colleagues to deal with the problems that would arise from the territories occupied by israel and not recognised by the european union, i.e. the post-1967 territories, and we put a question through mr brok to commissioner de gucht and commissioner de gucht came here and made it clear that one party can well impose on the other, through the protocol, that products coming from those areas are not recognised in certain areas. the technical issue is therefore essentially solved. the conflict between israel and the palestinians, mr president, is something much deeper, something which will not be affected by this agreement, which of course also concerns products which are of high quality and are offered at very good prices by israel. it is naive to think that such an agreement can have anything to do with the substance of the solution. the question is much more complex and we are all aware of the responsibilities that exist in general and the problems that the solution faces and we are of course aware of the efforts of the european union to give full support to the palestinian side. so we have no reason to link it to solving the problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, by voting today we are once again supporting the rights of passengers in all modes of transport. but we're taking it a step further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. today's report brings together a fragmented legislative landscape, and is a step in the right direction, so that passengers are more fully aware of their rights, regardless of the means of transport. we are of course taking account of the specificities of each mode of transport, but it is very important that there should be a fundamental basis which applies to all modes. we are achieving greater transparency and greater awareness of citizens' rights.
in writing. the kke group voted against the report on the draft amending budget for 2012 because it transfers 10% of eu funds from the cohesion fund and the european regional development fund to the direct financing of monopoly groups with the so-called 'risk-sharing instruments'. the funds from the eu budget, which are again workers' money, are being used to guarantee the low-interest bank loans of the monopolies, to carry out projects in high-profit sectors which have nothing to do with the needs of the people. this is the growth that the eu and city governments are fighting for. hot money to corporations to maintain and restore their profitability, harsh austerity and the crushing of workers' lives and rights, skyrocketing unemployment. capitalist crisis and capitalist development are the two sides of the coin of the savage exploitation of the working class and the popular strata. the satisfaction of the people's needs is impossible without untying and overturning the chariot of capitalist european union, overthrowing the power of the monopolies in each member state and passing it into the hands of the working class and its allies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which amends council decision 2008/971/ec to allow the import of the ‘qualified’ category of forest reproductive material into the european union from certain third countries that satisfy the conditions to meet the ‘qualified’ category and the updating of the name of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of production.
in writing. citizenship of the union is automatically granted to all citizens of the respective member states and does not replace but is complementary to national citizenship. this commission report responds positively to the proposal for a european year to enhance awareness of the rights attached to citizenship of the union. however, although the proposal gives a boost to the concept of citizenship, there are problems associated with the everyday lives of citizens such as, for example, the lack of equal opportunities for all, mobility opportunities for young people and lack of administrative efficiency. increasing awareness therefore means increasing citizens' participation and co-creation in the european construction. the proposals contained in this report contribute to this and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs papadopoulos' report. it is fundamental to democracy and pluralism that european citizens are aware of their rights deriving from their european identity/citizenship. the establishment of the european year of citizens (2013) is an important initiative and contributes to the deepening of the democratic institutions of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe that respecting fundamental rights values is a prior condition for eu-russia relations. the reform of the judicial system is essential in order to be in conformity with international standards.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs foster's report because its aim is to reduce or even eliminate flight delays, to reduce the cost of air transport services and the price of tickets, to increase air traffic and create jobs and, ultimately, to promote economic growth in the tourism sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland to support the 432 redundancies at talk talk broadband services and three of its suppliers in the telecommunications sector. it is regrettable that this company has decided to ally itself with three key suppliers outside the eu, where a significant part of the work has been relocated, reflecting a strategy that is detrimental to eu industrial jobs and to the eu 2020 strategy in general. the negative effects of globalisation, combined with the ongoing economic crisis in ireland, further highlight the added value of the egf as an instrument of eu social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the irish government is making efforts to streamline the budget and drastically cut expenditure. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the national budget's fiscal consolidation efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain to support 878 redundancies in 35 metal manufacturing enterprises in the galicia region. the economy of this region has suffered a severe economic blow, as the opening up to the globalised market has negatively affected important sectors of the economy, such as this one. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the producers of the product concerned and if it is granted to the producers of the product concerned. the negative effects of globalisation, combined with the continuing economic crisis in spain, further highlight the added value of the egf as an instrument of eu social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of the national and regional budgets of spain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands to support 435 redundancies in 54 companies active in the building sector. this report shall cover the nine-month period between 1 february and 1 november 2011. during this period, the crisis derogation allowed for the provision of financial assistance to employees made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis and the increase in the co-financing rate. it is regrettable that, despite the continuing crisis, the council has blocked the extension of this derogation. the case of the netherlands is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need for it to continue during the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands to support 660 redundant workers at zalco aluminium zeeland and two of its suppliers. this report covers the period from 1 to 27 december 2011. during the period in question, the crisis derogation allowed for the provision of financial assistance to employees made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis and for the increase of the co-financing rate. it is regrettable that, despite the continuing crisis, the council has blocked the extension of this derogation. the case of the netherlands is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. the kke's position is well known that the so-called 'fund for adaptation to globalisation' is a means of manipulating the conscience and defusing the indignation of workers, by distributing crumbs of consolation to workers who are thrown into unemployment by the capitalists. but even these crumbs do not go to direct support for the unemployed, but to the urban governments, to various training programmes and so on. the kke voted against the report because it is provocative to ask the french government to disburse funds from this fund for the thousands of redundancies made by the french monopoly group peugeot, which, even in the midst of a capitalist crisis, has billions of euros in profits (1.7 billion in 2010 and 1.3 billion in 2011). the workers' movement cannot be reduced to claiming the crumbs of the globalisation fund to vent the workers' anger, leaving untouched the french monopoly which throws workers into the street to maintain its profitability and the bourgeois french government of social democracy, which defends monopoly interests with all means. the kke supports the workers' struggle to re-employ the dismissed and the working class' struggle to make the plutocracy pay for the crisis that created it and not the working class and the poor.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for france to support 2089 redundant workers in the psa peugeot citroën group active in the automotive sector. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. the support provided is also a practical expression of the union's solidarity. moreover, this report has a reference period of 4 months between 1 november 2009 and 28 february 2010. during the period in question, the crisis derogation allowed for the provision of financial assistance to employees made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis and for the increase of the co-financing rate. it is regrettable that despite the continuing crisis, the council has blocked the extension of this derogation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark to support the 720 workers made redundant at the vestas group wind turbine manufacturing company. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of denmark is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for germany to support 2103 redundancies in the printing machinery manufacturing company manroland ag and two of its subsidiaries. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of germany is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this, in turn, underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. the committee voted against the report because both the 1978 international convention on maritime education of the international maritime organisation and the so-called 'manila amendments' proposed for incorporation into eu law are far behind and do not address the needs for modern and high-quality maritime education, ensuring the effective protection of human life at sea and the environment. the public nature of maritime training is not guaranteed, and the working time arrangements are medieval. they provide for work of up to 14 hours a day or more, with various exceptions, which leads to the rapid deterioration of the physical and mental health of seafarers, increasing to the extreme the risks of maritime accidents with incalculable consequences. the eu strategy is to ensure the lowest possible level of maritime training by increasing the exploitation of seafarers by shipping capital, which is facilitated and thus replaces seafarers with structured labour rights with others - mainly from third countries - without rights and with humiliating starvation wages. the kke supports the struggle of the working class shipping movement for modern, high-level maritime training, 5 days, 7 hours, 35 hours, strict measures to protect the health and safety of seafarers, wages that meet modern needs, full and stable work with rights for all seafarers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it is of utmost importance in securing maritime safety, and that crews being trained in different countries and under different systems operating on board the same ship have the capacities needed to perform their duties in a safe manner. the proposal includes several key aspects that strengthen this outcome. these are: updated standards relating to medical fitness, fitness for duty as well as alcohol abuse; new requirements concerning certification for able seafarers, and for electro-technical officers, as well as security-related training for all seafarers; clarification and simplification of the definition of ‘certificate’ amongst others.
in writing. the kke group deplores the decision of the eu council to conclude a protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and israel 'concerning the verification of conformity and acceptance of industrial products (dca) ' and its approval by the political staff of the monopolies in the european parliament. this protocol effectively allows direct trade between the eu and its member states and israeli settlements in the israeli-occupied palestinian territories and the export to the eu of israeli products produced there. the agreement is in effect a recognition and legitimization of the israeli occupation and its crimes against the palestinian people. it is a continuation of the eu's overall imperialist policy in the region, which is systematically upgrading its political, economic, commercial and military relations with israel, both in the framework of the eu-israel association agreement and israel's accession to the single european sky. the european union is not only condemning israel's settlements in the occupied territories, but is also recognizing the israeli occupation and arming its murderous hand against the palestinian people.
in writing. the economic environment in which the eu finds itself creates cracks in the development goals set by the europe 2020 strategy. it is a fact that europe is lagging behind in competitiveness many asian economies while at the same time shrinking demographically. the comparative own-initiative proposal, which i voted in favour of, is a response to the commission's communication 'an action plan for change', while calling for greater emphasis to be placed on the use of funds to fight poverty in the eu (which is enlarging) and on those factors which constitute an asset for the eu such as innovation, entrepreneurship and the social state. although not binding, the report contains useful proposals to the member states and the commission to support employment and growth prospects without social exclusion and without discrimination.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on proposals to support small and medium-sized enterprises. in greece, small and mediumsized enterprises and family-type enterprises account for 98% of enterprises. the economic crisis, in addition to effectively excluding them from access to credit and liquidity, threatens their existence. the recent assurances by the eib that it will provide them with substantial amounts are important but do not solve the problem altogether. support for small and mediumsized enterprises means support for entrepreneurship, innovation and jobs. in this proposal, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to show even greater determination in this direction. among other things, it is proposed to broaden the entrepreneurial mindset in the eu and attract more people to the business world through community programmes, as well as providing incentives such as sme-friendly tax systems and other tax benefits.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the motion for a resolution highlights the crucial importance of small and mediumsized enterprises for the european economy and proposes very appropriate interventions to remove obstacles and develop entrepreneurship.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr moreira's report as trade and foreign investment must be better used to stimulate growth, which will lead to greater job creation and increase the well-being of the people. i believe that more steps must be taken towards eu-us trade relations as it is widely accepted that the potential of the transatlantic relationship has not yet been fully exploited.
mr president, commissioner, may i add my voice to the arguments and complaints expressed by my colleagues who have already taken the floor. i do not want or need to repeat what has already been said. may i just come back to the question: when will the commisson present its proposal? i do not know if i understood you correctly, but i think you said that you do not intend to table your proposal this year. so i ask you, will it be next year? next year is long; it is twelve months long. could you specify further when you plan to table your proposal? i am saying this because i would like to remind you that, right now, we are dealing with the personal data reform package. the european parliament regards this dossier as a real priority and is working in a very engaged way on both the proposed regulation and the directive. i think we also need to harmonise the eu single market for telecommunications in this respect, and it is also time to deal with the eprivacy directive you yourself mentioned. so may i express the wish that the commission take a more dynamic and determined stance vis-à-vis the members states, even when so-called sensitive issues for the member states are under discussion? i would like to conclude with the following remark, commissioner. in the european parliament you will always find an enthusiastic ally in your efforts to better protect the personal data of eu citizens. but while you can always rely on our full cooperation and support in this regard, at the same time let me emphasise that the european parliament will also always be prepared to fight for and defend its principles and beliefs in favour of the protection of eu citizens’ rights, especially when fundamental rights are concerned.
madam president, i would like to wish you a happy birthday, but i think that is not enough. i feel that to be correct, we should wish for "long and good years", "long and effective years", "long and fast years". the technology is beyond us. so far we have all been giving the example of success in referring to the single market when we point out how cheap we are now to talk on our mobile phones and this is an achievement of the single market. but i have to give you a negative example: we all pretty much have in this room the famous ipads. but if this ipad, this smart device, you bought it, for example, in belgium and you go to the uk or another member state, if you have a problem, the answer is "go to the country where you bought this device". i say this to show that we must be quicker in our actions because it is not enough to talk, it is not enough to celebrate. we must act. we have talked about 12 basic actions and 50 complementary actions. of the 12 key actions, 11 have been left behind, and this was acknowledged at an official commission event. all of this is troubling me. i am, however, optimistic because in times of crisis the single market is more necessary than ever for the european citizen who is really suffering.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the single market saw a series of events taking place in brussels, at the european parliament and in all member states which culminated in the ‘single market week for new growth’ from 15 to 20 october. i personally had the honour to participate in the closing event in nicosia on 20 october, at which commissioner barnier, the chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) – malcolm harbour – and imco member malgorzata handzlik spoke about the past, present and future of the single market in front of numerous representatives of civil society. as members have confirmed in their speeches, the establishment of the single market brought not only huge benefits for citizens by increasing the choice of products and services and lowering their prices but was also a driving force for businesses, fostering their competitiveness and innovation capacity. however, despite impressive achievements the single market and its benefits are not yet fully visible to the citizens, for whom it was originally created. the single market still remains for many a very abstract and bureaucratic concept which is unfortunately too often reduced to top-down rule-making by brussels. furthermore, even after 20 years of its existence, there is still a considerable gap between expectations and reality regarding the single market, with european citizens and businesses still facing obstacles in exercising their rights – or to put it more bluntly – even after 20 years of success, there is absolutely no room for complacency. on the contrary, what we learned from the celebrations is that we have to step up our efforts in order to pursue the establishment of a seamless single market. firstly, we need to better inform consumers and businesses on the existing tools, in order to create the kind of ownership which is absolutely necessary for stakeholders to move the single market forward. secondly, we need to pass on the message that despite the global financial crisis the single market did not fragment further – which is an encouraging sign of inherent strength, and hence the eu has to build on that. moreover, completing the single market is not only about passing new laws, but increasingly a matter of implementing correctly and enforcing the already existing rules. thirdly, as europe and other parts of the world struggle to recover from the financial crisis, boosting growth and employment is the number one priority for leaders across the eu. europe has enormous unrealised potential to restore growth and confidence by unleashing the power of such a single market. in this respect, the presidency welcomes the launch earlier this month of the new single market act ii by commissioner barnier. the proposals concentrate, very rightly, on areas of the single market with the highest potential for growth, and should also work as a vector for social and territorial cohesion and for integrating europe’s markets better by improving mobility for individuals and businesses, encouraging entrepreneurship and making finance more accessible across the eu. in addition to the above, the 12 key actions proposed concentrate on the network industries and the digital economy. integration in these areas is essential to creating the conditions for more economic growth and new jobs. notably, the creation of jobs is an absolute priority for the presidency as the economic crisis has threatened social cohesion. unemployment – especially among the young – is skyrocketing in some places. in this respect i would like to seize this opportunity to repeat our presidency’s full commitment to finalising as many as possible pending dossiers on the single market act i, in particular those covering alternative dispute resolution, on-line dispute resolution, venture capital, social investment funds and the accounting directives. promising progress has been achieved on patents, as was mentioned by commissioner barnier, and i am grateful to him, as well as to the european parliament for the understanding and positive cooperation on this very delicate issue. we are indeed now at a watershed and if we can overcome the persisting difficulties we will at last have the chance to put in place a genuinely european patent system. the european council has set the goal of agreement on all these proposals by the end of 2012. in short, we will all be committed to intensifying the current pace of work. i trust there will be sufficient flexibility on the part of both legislators, enabling timely adoption. let me conclude by recapitulating the following imperatives: the single market is the biggest economic – but also political – asset of the european union. despite the recent economic downturn, the single market has continued to function and to deliver. however, in order to be able to reap all its benefits it is essential to breathe new life into that single market, with european citizens and consumers placed at its centre. i remain confident that together we will manage to successfully implement the envisaged measures in order to make the single market a vibrant and living reality for europe’s citizens. congratulations to commissioner barnier and the commission, the european parliament, and in particular to the chair of the internal market committee, malcolm harbour, to the rapporteur, regina bastos, and to all the other members and other people who are working so hard to make a genuine single market part of our daily life in the european union.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank each and every one of you very sincerely for the quality of this very dynamic debate and for your very large participation. many of you have said - mr scicluna, at the very beginning, mrs werthmann, mr obermayr - that we need the single market for growth. i repeat that it is not enough for the single market to function properly. there are many national, private, public and european initiatives which should encourage growth. nevertheless, the single market is a necessary condition. if it works well, all the private and public initiatives supporting the single market will work better and be more effective. that is why i cannot agree with mr zeribi, who was not here when i spoke and has now left, and who has called me on several occasions to tell me that i was complacent. frankly, that's not the tone of my speech, there's no room for self-satisfaction, no room for nostalgia and melancholy right now. not one! we must take note of the progress made, and you have been in many political groups to highlight all this progress in terms of employment. mr ferreira also left but he was talking about leveling down. that's not true, man. the 2 500 000 students who have taken part in erasmus, the 70% reduction in the price of mobile phones, the millions of citizens who now have access to cheaper air transport - all this is not a bottom-up approach! these are the advantages of the single market. but i think we also have to look ahead. mr pargneaux was just telling us about the new model. i know! we are working and must work together on very concrete initiatives for this new economic and social model. mr pargneaux asked me about the initiatives for enhanced cooperation. take the patent for example. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. or the basic bank account, which you all agreed to request. these initiatives are part of this model. there you go, no self-satisfaction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single market is not a one-off event, but a one-off event, and that the single market is not a one-off event. let us make sure that it works well and reorient it towards what i believe and you believe too: the competitive social market economy. the four words are important and not just one or two, as we may have believed, including in brussels, in the last twenty years. many of you have spoken, both in concrete terms and by telegraph, of networks. these are the arteries of the single market. that is why we have made it a priority of the single market act ii. there is a lot to be done in this area. mr creutzmann and mr pirker referred to the railway issues which are being discussed by the committee on transport and by mr simpson. we have procedures for certifying railway companies, for approving rolling stock, which are far too long, far too expensive. it is not a question of liberalization, but of promoting harmonization so that the free movement of persons and goods is effective. we have to harmonize our policies, including, mr correia de campos, energy. the absence of a single energy market, which mrs vergnaud also mentioned, costs consumers 13 billion. we must therefore harmonise the single energy market. i could give you other examples in the maritime field. why is it necessary - this is just an example - that when a cargo ship arrives in naples, a cargo ship arriving from rotterdam has to complete the same formalities as a cargo ship arriving from shanghai? there is no single market. we must tackle these problems in a concrete way. that is the aim of all the measures we are going to take with mr kallas in the single market act ii. i also told mr becker that we do a good job of collective work, as you do yourself. the single market act i and ii implement the work of many committees of the european parliament, as i do not work alone but with twelve of my fellow commissioners. this is particularly the case with my colleague, mrs kroes, who is responsible for the digital agenda. i have listened very carefully to what president harbour has said, but also to what mr rübig, mrs rapti, mr arias echeverría, whom i thank very much, and, more recently, to what mrs jazłowiecka, mrs stihler and mr creutzmann have said on the digital single market. i think that we have embarked on a very large project, which is not going fast enough. if we were to think, not too late, about what a single market act iii could be in 2014, mr president harbour, we should probably focus on new measures to give momentum to the digital single market. in any case, i intend to discuss this with mrs kroes and my other colleagues. mr de jong and mr karas spoke of smes and product safety. i am very concerned that all the measures we take - and mr tajani is also concerned - in the single market act are weighed against the advantages and disadvantages for small and mediumsized enterprises. i'll take care of it. i would simply like to call on you, as i call on the council, mr mavroyiannis, the cypriot minister, whom i thank for being here, to speed up the adoption of certain texts. on public procurement, mr tarabella, accounting standards, capital requirements iv, for which we have made proposals - the rapporteur, mr karas, knows this - in favour of sme financing by the banking sector, on transparency. these are very concrete texts where, if you look in detail, you will find measures or provisions which are more favourable or less restrictive for small and mediumsized enterprises. in addition, i would like to thank mr kósa for mentioning the daily lives of disabled people. we will be concerned, together with mrs reding, about the safety of products, and specific measures will be proposed in 2013 on the access of disabled people to the greatest number of products. many of you have mentioned the social dimension and i thank you for that - the competitive social market economy - and in particular mrs regner, mrs rühle, mr de jong and mr rübig. one of the keys, once we know that we have to move, that we have to reform, is what some countries do better than others - i compare, for example, the quality of social dialogue in germany with the often lack of social dialogue in my own country. we cannot reform, we cannot win the battle of competitiveness and sustainable growth without social cohesion, without social dialogue, without respect for the social partners. i would like to express my agreement with this and also say to those who have expressed concern about privatisation, mrs rühle, mrs regner, that the treaty clearly provides, and i believe definitively, that each country has a free choice in the organisation of its public services. and i am the first, where i am, to want to preserve this freedom of choice for the quality of public services. simply, if one or two countries want to choose a different economic model, it is their sovereign choice to use external providers for certain public service missions. we are therefore accountable for compliance with the rules on public procurement or concessions, and in particular the rules on transparency. i have therefore tabled some texts on public procurement and concessions, but i am absolutely in favour of ensuring that each country has the freedom of choice, particularly in the case of public services. mr schwab and mr buşoi have again mentioned, and i thank them for that, implementation, as has minister mavroyiannis. i am encouraged by the call by president van rompuy and the european council for governments to implement quickly and concretely many of the texts we have put forward, and i will ensure, with the commission and you, that we can achieve concrete agreements in the coming weeks or months. mr bufton, earlier you and mrs mazej kukovič mentioned an important aspect, namely the external dimension of the single market. we're not all alone. we must continue to be a continent open to trade, without naivety, as perhaps we have had a little too much of in the past. but we must look at the rest of the world, which sometimes still hopes that europe will be there, but no longer expects us, whether it is brazil, china, the united states or india. so let us consolidate this single market because, ladies and gentlemen, i assure you that when you go to these big countries - i was in brazil last week - you see that the only reason they respect the europeans is clearly the strength of this single market of 500 million consumers and 22 million businesses. and since i am speaking of the rest of the world, i do not forget, mr alves, the place and role of the outermost regions. we are preparing, as part of the follow-up to the pedro solbes report, which i had requested, on the subject of the 'single market and the outermost regions', very specific and specific measures for state aid and innovation. since i am also speaking of consumer and citizen protection, i would like to reiterate to mr kósa that i am very attentive to the daily living conditions of disabled people. it is in this spirit that i have asked for a mandate from the council to open a discussion on the issue of intellectual property and to discuss an exception for people with hearing impairments, as i am actively supporting, as you know, the social enterprise sector. many companies are actually geared towards disabled people. finally, i repeated to mr karas, who spoke of the protection of citizens and consumers, that i believe that in the battle for the single market, the battle for competitiveness, every citizen is necessary. there you go, ladies and gentlemen. mr paška and mr moreira spoke of the completion of the single labour market. it is also one of the proposals we put forward in the single market act ii, in particular by developing a european public employment service, with eures. there are too few online resumes. we will significantly increase this capacity and also promote transnational recruitment. finally, without propaganda - mr ferreira used a word with which i do not agree - without any complacency, simply by being proud of the work done by our predecessors in line with jacques delors' proposal for a single market, let us look ahead and open the debate with the citizens. in recent days we have both been very much involved in the single market act debate. we had a lot of discussions - i was talking to president harbour about the success of the 90-92 generation, where we saw young people who had a lot to say. you have to listen to people. i would like to see a change in the way the commission itself communicates from the top down, saying 'in brussels we are always right'. that's not true, man. there are a lot of ideas, criticisms, proposals that have to come from the bottom up. and so, in line with what we did with the single market act week for the first time, i will take other initiatives, with my colleagues, to open up the public debate, asking, from the field, from consumers, from trade unions, from professional actors, from small businesses, for their ideas. i would like to take up the words of mrs corazza bildt or mrs sehnalová: a citizens' debate, a cultural dimension, mr schwab. yes, cultural, that means citizen. not just talking about technology, money, laws, but asking people's opinions. and so many of you have participated in these debates and i will take other very strong initiatives, particularly with social networks and the internet to open up this critical, interactive debate on the future and the consolidation of the single market.
commissioner, thank you very much. you know that we attach great importance to what you have just said, namely that the social dialogue must be respected in each country.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the free movement of goods is the cornerstone of the eu. the single market is an essential element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, as the european commission's report points out, gaps and dysfunctions in the functioning of the single market are identified which do not allow europeans to take full advantage of the single market. the single market must be given a new lease of life, placing european citizens and consumers at the centre of its concerns, so that they can take full advantage of the benefits of this market and thus contribute to the territorial, economic and social cohesion of the european union. i congratulate the rapporteur on the particular importance she attaches to small and mediumsized enterprises, because improving the entrepreneurship, internationalisation and competitiveness of european smes, which are the backbone of the european economy, is essential.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission - is the erasmus programme under threat? the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same thing, i remind you, we did last time for the schengen area, which is unacceptable. i would therefore like to continue what my colleagues have said and ask all young people, all students throughout europe, in the 33 countries where this programme is being implemented, to continue to apply. they can be sure that everything will be fine. i would also like to say a big thank you to the teachers and all those involved in the implementation of the programme, who often - and with personal sacrifices - make sure that everything goes well, because it has been said repeatedly and before that 'the erasmus resources are not enough'. governments have made mistakes. that is why we are here, the european parliament, the european commission, to show that we do not discuss the obvious. if we have another unpleasant debate like this in the future, it will not be about whether erasmus is in trouble, it will be about whether europe is in trouble.
madam president, i am particularly pleased to be taking part in this debate today, mainly because in the 25 years of this successful programme we are discussing, wondering, whether we should continue it or not. i believe that the most successful programmes in europe are running out of resources precisely because they are successful. it is the duty of all member states to support successful programmes, because they are supporting the future of europe. i am particularly pleased that the overwhelming majority of this parliament strongly supports not only the continuation of the programme but, above all, its future and that we must therefore take this programme into account in the next budget.
member of the commission. − madam president, colleagues, thank you for your real commitment. this is a timely commitment on how to save erasmus. this is the time to sound the alarm. (thank you also for reminding us that lewandowski was successful in scoring against real madrid yesterday for borussia dortmund!) but this is also very much an opportunity to see what is behind the figures. from time to time it is necessary to see what lies behind the budgetary figures. it is so easy to cut figures on paper, but when you see thousands of erasmus students it is more difficult, or when you see the small or medium-sized companies behind the figures who are in desperate need of liquidity at a time of credit crunch, then it is less easy to cut the figures. this is the case with erasmus. it started with a modest allocation of eur 18 million i think in 1998, but now more than 4 000 higher education institutions in 33 countries – also beyond the european union – have signed up to the erasmus university charter. so this is really about visibility, about the utility of the european union for the younger generation. utility is what we really need now, the utility of our institutions. the situation is as follows, as i have clarified. you have my assurance, and i think this will also be endorsed by minister mavroyiannis, that the students benefiting from erasmus this year, and at the beginning of 2013, are not in danger. everything should be implemented, because we have sent money to the national agencies in 33 countries. the danger is due to uncertainty – especially if we make an additional request to take advantage of the money allocated for 2013 to cover the needs of 2012 – and uncertainty affects most of all those students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, poorer students around europe. therefore we need a solution, we need your commitment. please do not forget that erasmus is only a part of the lifelong learning programme. the very prestigious marie curie programme for young researchers is also in danger of being short of money if we do not have an additional eu 100 million for this year. this is the overall picture at a time when we are starting the battle over the future until 2020. it is not true that the research programmes are to be affected, they are the part of the european budget with the biggest growth for the future, from eur 50 to 80 billion, but i think what is vital now is to give assurances to the students that in 2013 they will not be affected.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to thank the members very much for this debate. the arrival of mr swoboda is timely, and i will certainly follow up on his suggestion and, of course, on all the comments and concerns expressed. i have taken good note of all of these and will convey them to the member states and the council. let me assure you that the council shares the view that student mobility and erasmus are key for young generations and form part of our vision of the future and relevance of our europe. concerning the situation of payment appropriations in 2012, the council, as i was saying before, will pursue swiftly the examination of draft amending budget 6/2012 proposed by the commission and will duly analyse with the commission the shortage of appropriations identified in the current budget for all programmes, lifelong learning included, with erasmus and marie curie being an essential part of this. let me assure members that we will do our utmost to avoid the situation they fear of not being able to honour our obligations and ensure the smooth running of the erasmus programme. concerning 2013, the european parliament and the council have just started a conciliation procedure with a view to reaching an agreement on the level of commitment and payment appropriations in next year’s budget which, of course, include the lifelong learning programme. as i was saying before, the discussions on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 are ongoing and we cannot pre-empt their outcome. however, my feeling is that erasmus is not in danger. in fact, we will not allow it to be endangered, as we are strongly committed to it.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal in order to ensure the necessary supply of seed to the eu market, and, given the urgency and importance of the continuation of the seed importation regime, these rules must be prolonged by amending the deadline to 31 december 2022.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr hudghton's report. the existing 12-mile zones are functioning satisfactorily, and i believe that the current regulation on the smooth functioning of fisheries and the maritime policy should be extended.
in writing. i voted in favour of the food aid convention which the european parliament is called upon to approve without being able to amend it. it is a common acknowledgement that progress in the fight against hunger is slow. even today, nearly 14 percent of the world's population is undernourished. the eu is the world's largest donor of food and humanitarian aid, but the economic crisis it faces is prompting a growing debate, particularly among large member states, to reduce aid. parliament expressed its disappointment at the fact that there is no minimum, annual collective european commitment to include both eu and member state contributions to this effort, while highlighting individual policy proposals such as the shift from a product-based approach to a more diversified, locally adapted toolbox based on needs, transparency and better accountability of the implementation of these programmes.
in writing. the european commission's recent proposal does not take full advantage of the new instruments offered by the lisbon treaty in this area. the present report by parliament, which i voted in favour of, could be a prelude to closer cooperation between eu delegations in the exercise of consular protection. even today, citizens of an eu member state whose state is not represented by authorities in the country where they reside face unacceptable problems with regard to their services and rights. it is clear that european citizenship, as now defined by the treaties, requires better cooperation between the consular authorities of the member states in third countries. the european parliament therefore seeks further initiatives on this issue in the near future.
in writing. 2012 marks 20 years since the single market came into being, creating a borderless area within which people, goods, services and capital can move freely. the benefits, economic and social, are clear. however, both experience and the economic crisis have brought to light weak points. this own-initiative report presents an overview of practical obstacles (information, implementation, legislative gaps). the single market must also be modern, and in this context this report, which i voted in favour of, underlines the need to create a digital single market that works properly and safely for consumers and businesses. it is also clear that better governance and co-operation are essential conditions for its creation.
in writing. the single market, completed in 1992, was created to strengthen relations between member states. the economic, financial and social crisis that has hit europe since 2008 has had a significant impact on the single market. i voted in favour of mrs bastos' report because it proposes guidelines/recommendations to the european commission and the member states to address the gaps in the functioning of the single market and thus contribute to the recovery of the european economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution because i believe it is vital for the eu to deepen its economic and trade relations with the world's major economies in order to maximise the potential for employment and growth.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, friday 26 october 2012, at 11.30.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of the 2012 priorities [2012/2150(ini) ].
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr gauzès on his report and also on his commitment to the question of the economic governance of the european union. the report we are discussing today is the first full account of the european semester and the conclusions drawn from it are therefore very important for its future application. the european semester is emerging today as an excellent tool for coordinating our policy objectives and responsibilities between the european and national levels. the crisis has highlighted the significant differences between the regions of the union, the macroeconomic imbalances between national economies and the extent to which they have widened in recent years. the difficulties in addressing these weaknesses and the specificities of member states in their efforts to achieve fiscal adjustment and growth call for us to make use of all the possibilities, in policies and resources, to achieve the common objective of stability and growth. the european semester is therefore a tool of this kind. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the involvement of national parliaments is very important for the effectiveness of our policies, since national parliaments can now take a more responsible part in the planning of reform programmes and budgets submitted, as well as in the evaluation of budget implementation and their effectiveness. they can certainly contribute to more successful governance, but also to making local actors and the european people more familiar with european objectives and obligations. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies. i therefore believe that the european commission must be clear, specific in its recommendations, in order to give meaning to this potential of the european semester to contribute to better governance and a more stable european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the actions for the danube macro-region do not serve to meet the needs of the people, such as employment with rights, education, housing, culture, flood control and water resources development projects. the macro-region does not mean industrial and rural development in these terms, but the deepening of the single capitalist market and the capitalist restructuring that has led the peoples to unemployment, mass poverty and bankruptcy. its actions serve the anti-people europe 2020 strategy and the energy giants, while taking away significant resources for the benefit of the project, connecting europe. the reorientation and use of cohesion policy funds will primarily benefit the profitability of european union enterprises operating on world markets, will intensify the crushing of labour and popular rights, will exacerbate uneven growth. we therefore believe that the big losers will be the workers who are called upon to make the hard sacrifices to support a development which does not address their needs.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i am particularly pleased that, as the representative of the last wing of this house, i can see full agreement in the recognition of mr diamantoure's work and his excellent cooperation with the committee on petitions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. according to the ombudsman's report, 2,510 complaints were registered in 2011 and the institution directly helped more than 22,000 citizens. that's a very good performance. i believe that this important institution should be made more widely known to the citizens of the european union, given that according to a eurobarometer report, 42% of european citizens are not satisfied with the level of transparency in the administration of the european union. the institution is necessary and the exercise of this institution has been successful so far. as is the case every year, the majority of inquiries carried out by the ombudsman concerned the european commission - some 58% - and it is particularly important to devise appropriate measures to strengthen cooperation with the commission in the interests of european citizens. in particular, at this difficult time of crisis in institutions and democratic values, i congratulate mr diamantouros on the excellent way in which he is carrying out his duties, and i also congratulate mrs mazzoni, chairman of the committee on petitions, who is contributing to the good cooperation between the two institutions. i take this opportunity to give a ton of optimism and to say that the crisis will pass. we must restore the citizens' confidence in the institutions and the european union.
madam president, greece has recently made a monumental effort, alongside economic efforts, to combat illegal immigration, and this in an environment of extremist and racist voices. however, we are already seeing tangible results with the efforts being made. the flows of illegal immigrants to evros have been greatly reduced and overall flows into our country have been curtailed because of better border controls, and i would remind you that this country is also under great pressure at the moment from events in syria. but it is the right time, and that is why i am mentioning it, to realise that europe can no longer bear the burden of illegal immigration on its own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos.
madam president, on 6 april 2009, a powerful earthquake struck the region of abruzzo in central italy. many dozens of people were killed, schools, public buildings, kindergartens, hospitals and other infrastructure collapsed. the european parliament, bypassing bureaucratic procedures and following a proposal from our italian colleagues and the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, has approved eur 500 million for the relief of the inhabitants of the earthquake-stricken areas and for the repair of damage. three years later, just last monday, madam president, an italian court convicted six fellow seismologists for failing to predict the earthquake. this is an absurd, unprecedented and, in my view, dangerous decision. this decision does not condemn seismologists, it does not condemn scientists, it condemns science itself and all sciences. it is not my intention to ask the european parliament to intervene in the independent italian judiciary, but let me say, madam president, that the judges are also judged.
madam president, the government in greece, together with its foreign allies, the european union and the troika, reached memorandum 3 after a provocative theatre of supposed disagreements. slaughter of wages and pensions up to 35%, demolition of every right to work, savage cuts in health, welfare, education. one and a half million workers were left on the streets without unemployment benefits, without any social protection. there are thousands of unemployed in the shipbuilding zone. at the skaramagga shipyard, the workers work only four shifts a month. the budget deficits are the pretext, while for twenty years the barbaric anti-working class measures for cheap labour have been a strategic objective of the monopolies, the european union and bourgeois governments. the recent rompuy report says it plainly: memoranda of capitalist barbarity in every member state. that's enough! so a popular uprising to put an end to capitalist barbarity. let the workers build the people's prosperity with their own people's power on the ruins of the power of the monopolies and the european union.
madam president, i agree with the description and assessment of the situation in belarus made by commissioner füle and consider it to be objective. i respect and consider the policies he proposes prudent. observers observing the vote on 23 september found that the vote was not conducted in an impartial manner and argued that many political rights, such as those of assembly and association and freedom of expression, were not respected by the authorities, while irregularities were found in the counting of votes. unfortunately, the estimates show that the internal political situation in belarus, which has remained unchanged since 1994, is not likely to change. the expulsion of the swedish ambassador is a telling example. it is now clear that russia's project for a eurasian union is now in full swing. in the context of, inter alia, the neighbourhood policy, the union should strengthen efforts to respect human rights, freedom of expression and democratic principles in the country. but always with great care.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, the internal situation in the emirates is characterized by authoritarianism, repression of civil society, persecution and imprisonment of dissidents. i am afraid that this internal political situation will remain as it is for a long time, because the government of the united arab emirates has no ears, that is to say, it does not listen to the views of the international community, nor to the requirements of un resolutions and human rights. the situation in the united arab emirates is certainly in line with that of the wider middle east, but i fear that the so-called 'arab spring' has turned into a 'christian winter' for its inhabitants. indeed, the last few years have been literally disastrous for the millions of afflicted christians in the area. the same situation exists in egypt, iraq and syria, and we have a big problem with the christians in that area, and we have to be active in solving it.
in writing. this proposal from the european parliament's own initiative examines the functioning and effectiveness of existing financial instruments (fi) and the scope for developing a range of new innovative instruments combining grants from the union budget and public and/or private funding to increase investment in europe. in any case, flexible measures in this direction are also in greece's interest in order to free up community funds for enterprises which will, on the one hand, provide liquidity to the market and, on the other hand, contribute to the development effort made by the country. i therefore voted in favour of this report. the commission will also assess the impact of the new multiannual financial framework on the budgetary position of greece, in particular in the light of the outcome of the 2014-2020 programming period. both in the european parliament and at the level of governments, the country is demanding that greece's current gdp be taken into account, rather than the gdp of the period 2009-2010 calculated by the commission, which is about 18% higher than today, depriving our country of valuable resources from the european structural funds.
in writing. the commission estimates that the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy requires a total investment of several billion euros by 2020 across the eu. however, the lack of resources in recent years has made such investments difficult. i voted in favour of the report because the ultimate objective of innovative financial instruments and their catalytic effect is to enable, on the basis of a contribution from the union budget, funds to be raised for projects in cases where the market proves to be inadequate or incomplete. in this way, public intervention can reduce the cost of potential risks or partially bear them, facilitating the implementation of these projects. as regards the design of new financial instruments, i agree with the importance of ex ante evaluation to identify situations of market failure or sub-optimal investments, as well as the need to provide for a number of simple quality indicators for ex ante and ex post evaluation. these instruments, in combination with project bonds, will make investments more attractive and will have a multiplier effect to make further investments. in this way, they will play a key role in the recovery efforts of the member states and in the strategy for growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2011. the information provided to the european parliament shows that the role of the european ombudsman is not only gaining in visibility and serving our fellow citizens in europe, but also consolidating its position as a means of accountability in the union. it is significant that in 2011 the ombudsman registered 2,510 complaints, of which 53% were submitted via the electronic complaint form, which is available on the ombudsman's website in all official eu languages. issues of transparency, public and personal data access and control of contract and grant award are the main requests to the ombudsman. further promotion of electronic communication with the ombudsman is necessary and with the very good work being done by mr n. diamantorus from this crucial position it is a given that it will be achieved.
mr president, i have asked to speak on labour and social rights, but developments in the middle east are very critical for the palestinian people and for the peoples of the region in general. the communist party of greece therefore wishes to condemn from this platform israel's war operations in the gaza strip, the murder of 91 palestinians, with 24 children and several women among the victims and the wounding of hundreds. we call for an end to the murderous israeli air strikes on the gaza strip and for the withdrawal of israeli occupation troops from the palestinian territories. we support the struggle of the palestinian people for the creation of an independent and viable palestinian state, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. ladies and gentlemen, the anti-people policy of the monopolies of the european union and the governments of its member states is aimed at the few remaining labour and social rights of the working class and the popular strata. the universality of the national general collective agreement is abolished and minimum wages are set by law by the governments. the results are mass unemployment, starvation wages and pensions, rising retirement ages, the demolition of public social security, education, health and welfare systems, poverty, misery and a lifetime of hell for the working class and the popular strata. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe, and the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe.
mr president, the rapporteur, mrs thyssen, has rightly stressed that the debate on the future of europe is a political debate, not a technical debate, and that is the main difference in approach between us. the report by parliament, the thyssen report, is a report which reflects in a political way the thoughts on the future of europe, whereas the report by mr van rompuy is more technical. this is a glorious field to prove, not by declarations but by consistency in words and deeds, that not only is the euro irreversible but that we have the will, the determination and the capacity to correct the weaknesses and fill the gaps, with the priority of strengthening democratic accountability and highlighting the social dimension of europe through the social pact. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i hope, commissioner, that today's eurogroup meeting will confirm this.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the next financial perspective has two particularly important chapters: one, we have said, is horizon 2020, where there will be a lot of investment, this time in applied research for industry, because, again, for us the innovation element is the key element, although in all the budget chapters we talk about innovation. the second part, which is of great importance, concerns small and mediumsized enterprises. the political message and i thank parliament for the support it has given to me personally and to the european commission is the cosme package: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of smes, including the internationalisation of smes, venture capital and the tourism sector. these are the two instruments, in addition, of course, to what can be done with the cohesion fund, the structural funds, the european social fund, and commissioner hahn has stressed on several occasions how strong his commitment is, also in the context of the next financial perspective, to support small and mediumsized enterprises. it can therefore be said that the intention to help industrial and entrepreneurial policy is spread over the whole budget. when we talk about industrial policy, we are obviously not talking only about large industry but also about small and mediumsized enterprises: but the two most important chapters are the 80 billion for horizon 2020 and the two and a half billion for cosme. but we could also talk about the funds for the galileo project, which is an industrial policy project, although it is a major infrastructure, which has allowed our space industry to be at the forefront: as you know, we also launched two more satellites in october. we have concluded all the tenders for the construction of satellites, but these satellites will also enable the development of business and industrial activities thanks to the services they can provide on the ground. so, from this point of view, if we read carefully and in detail the budget we have proposed for the financial perspective 2014-2020, there is a lot of industrial policy. i have mentioned the first two most important chapters, but there are other examples, including agricultural policy, where the industrial and entrepreneurial sector in the agricultural sector can be helped. i would therefore say that with the europe 2020 strategy, but also with the latest industrial policy document, there has been a change, which will then inevitably have to be translated from theory into practice through the budget. we are determined to achieve this and i believe that, with the support of the european parliament, we can achieve positive results.
mr president, commissioners, two of the largest greek companies have recently announced their intention to move their headquarters, one to luxembourg and the other to switzerland. this is a step before the relocation of production units, and information suggests that other greek companies will also change their headquarters and production units. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same companies that are leaving say they are leaving because there is a restriction of demand in greece, they say that investment schemes are leaving southern europe because of the risk which is mainly due to european policies. i would like to ask you, commissioners, how do you explain the departure of businesses from greece and the south at a time when incomes are falling? how do you explain the risk to european policies?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, as you know, i visited your country twice - once three weeks ago and once before the vote, when mr papadimos was prime minister - and i wanted to tell the greek people that our policies against the crisis are not only a policy of sacrifice, because without a policy for growth and without an initiative to support enterprises, sacrifices risk being useless and, in my view, even harmful, since they do not produce any effect. we must of course put our accounts in order, but at the same time we must tell the citizens that their sacrifices are going in a certain direction. this is why the european commission, together with the greek government, has organised a major event in your country, dedicated to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why i will be in greece again in january to organise business-to-business meetings between european and greek businesses, thus increasing the presence of european investment in greece and supporting small and mediumsized enterprises. we are working closely with the greek government on the tourism sector, which is my area of responsibility and which i consider to be of the utmost importance, and which must become more and more a genuine industry. we will do all that needs to be done. with commissioner damanaki we launched an initiative just a few weeks ago in athens: so everything that can and must be done in this direction will be done. my final view in answer to your question is that europe cannot simply ask for sacrifices but must also devise a policy for growth. that is what we are trying to do also on the basis of the council's decision. there is not only the fiscal compact, but there is also a policy for growth, which must be supported and developed, focusing on the different business realities that create employment in the different countries of the union. and as far as i am concerned, my commitment to the greek economic fabric will be a strong commitment and i consider it a priority, because greece cannot and must not be abandoned but must remain in the union and the euro area.
mr president, i am sorry but you have answered a different question and we have had enough of similar answers. i asked you another question: the argument is that greece needs to become competitive and reduce labour costs, but the reduction in labour costs does not prevent companies from relocating from greece. so the problem is you give that justification? you're saying things should be done the other way around? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the european parliament's report is in line with the commission's proposal for a regulation on public access to special substances for general use, which can however be used as precursors to explosives. the union is called upon to protect the free movement of goods and to ensure the safety of citizens against the possible illegal use of these substances. this regulation, which i voted in favour of, clearly regulates the concentration levels which render these substances inactivated for the production of household explosives and precisely defines the legal framework for their circulation and use. in any event, the implementation and effectiveness of such measures will depend on the member states and the level of cooperation they develop in this field.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it restricts access by members of the public to specific substances in general use but which can also be misused as explosives precursors. furthermore in protecting the free movement of goods, the proposal suggests that eight substances listed in annex i may continue to be sold in concentrated form under a licence granted by a national competent authority for a documented legitimate purpose or, without a licence, at concentration levels which render them ineffective for the manufacture of home-made explosives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu's accession to the overseas protocol to the barcelona convention, which protects the mediterranean from pollution by offshore exploration and exploitation of its seabed. although it is not possible to eliminate the risks of such mining entirely, the 'offshore protocol' is a tool that provides safety standards for the protection of the marine environment, environmental impact assessment and environmental responsibility. of course, much stricter safety standards would be needed in the mediterranean because it is a particularly vulnerable area due to its semi-enclosed nature and significant seismicity and because exploration and exploitation activities in the area are constantly increasing. for its inhabitants, the mediterranean plays a vital role in their daily lives and i believe that, beyond the environmental dimension, the ratification of the protocol by the eu will allow us to work in harmony with our non-eu mediterranean partners to ensure better protection of this sea for all its users. the fact that mediterranean states with bad relations are cooperating under the barcelona convention and its protocols demonstrates the extent to which environmental protection can contribute to peace and international cooperation.
in writing. the european parliament's report, which i voted in favour of, is a consequence of the well-known 'barcelona convention', signed in 1976 and amended in 1995. under this, the european union and all eu mediterranean coastal member states comply with basic principles for the protection of the mediterranean (licensing, removal of abandoned or decommissioned installations and harmful substances) and take responsibility for the marine environment. coastal activities in the mediterranean may increase due to the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves, both in cyprus and in greece, and therefore offshore oil and gas extraction activities should be managed in such a way as to prevent an accident with direct large-scale effects in a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean. greece is therefore committed to this and the measures already taken to exploit its wealth are in line with the agreements it has signed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the consumer credit directive has two objectives: guaranteeing a high level of consumer protection and strengthening the internal market in cross-border consumer credit. there is no doubt that the definitive harmonisation of some key aspects of credit law has significantly raised the level of consumer protection in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a serious mistake. social investment is investment against poverty, against exclusion from opportunity, in favour of skills, qualifications and humanity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. the inactive fellow human being and therefore the unused cell of our society is transformed into a healthy, productive and efficient one. social investment is therefore an investment in people, in social cohesion. as such they should be regarded, especially in these critical times, when the crisis in europe is not only economic but also, in many cases, social and values-based.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which clearly identifies that the union’s promotion policy should reward farmers and food promotion actions where substantial efforts have been made to implement production systems which respond to the new challenges european farmers face. for this reason, the budget for the horizontal scheme, which currently represents less than 0.1 % of cap spending, should be increased.
in writing. online shopping is experiencing a steady and significant growth across europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. taking into account the specificities of online transactions, any regulation at community level should be made gradually and collectively by the member states. one step in this direction is better integration of online, or mobile, markets that are still fragmented in the eu today. the process of establishing a single euro payments area (sepa) facilitates bank transfers in 32 european countries and by 2014 all participating countries should have implemented the common sepa standards. the report, which i voted in favour of, recommends effective ways of operating the ems and also suggests the next steps to be taken towards a single european framework for european trade.
in writing. the rapid introduction of new technologies often creates difficulties for parents and teachers in being able to communicate them effectively and positively to children. the resulting gap provides a platform for cyber threats of all kinds, making it necessary to protect children in the digital world. this own-initiative report provides for action both at the level of national education systems and in terms of specific conditions for providers of online services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the effective protection of children also lies to a large extent in the family. however, it is clear that the protection of children should in no way be equated with exclusion from new technologies, which are now an essential resource for increasing children's qualifications and skills. in the same spirit, protection should be combined with increased investment in new technologies, particularly in countries facing budgetary problems. the report, which i voted in favour of, covers this aspect satisfactorily.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs costa's report because i believe it contributes to the harmonisation of efforts in the field of the protection of minors in the digital world. there is no doubt that the internet offers many opportunities and new tools for communication, education and training for children who are of exceptional importance. however, as the report itself stresses, it is important to ensure the quality standards that content aimed at minors must meet and to commit member states to protecting minors in the digital world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because social enterprises are important drivers of sustainable development and social innovation and they have a major role to play in achieving the social, employment and educational targets of the eu 2020 strategy. a favourable climate for social enterprises in combination with a strong political framework and the necessary funding will allow for these enterprises to survive in the current crisis and to thrive.
in writing. the kke voted against the report which is moving in the same reactionary and anti-people direction as the van roobey plan. the plans of the political staff of the monopolies for the economic and fiscal integration of the eu - the future structure, form and functioning of the eurozone and the eu - are made from the perspective of serving the interests of capital. at the same time, they are reinforcing the decentralising tendencies and the acute rivalries, both within the eu and with the other imperialist powers, over who will benefit from the capitalist crisis at the expense of the other. the solutions to the crisis proposed by bourgeois governments and the eu are determined by the criterion of strengthening the profitability of the monopolies, through a savage attack on the lifestyles and rights of workers. this road is exacerbating the problems of the people and preparing the way for the next crisis, much sooner than the political representatives of capital expect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a people-friendly way out of the crisis presupposes disengagement from the eu, unilateral debt cancellation for over-indebted capitalist states and socialization of monopolies with people power - economy.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr bogusław sonik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the impact of shale gas and oil extraction activities on the environment[2011/2308 ((ini)) ] (a7-0283/2012), and - the report by mrs niki jawella, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil extraction[2011/2309 ((ini)) (a7-0284/2012) environmental aspects of shale gas and oil extraction activities
thank you for your intervention. the bureau will investigate the matter and you will be informed.
rapporteur. − madam president, europe has the longest history in the world of the pursuit of progress and democracy. it was because of those european men and women who boldly and bravely paved the way for the exploration and exploitation of the continent’s resources that europe became one of the leading powers in politics and economy. shale gas gives us all the opportunity to prove that our generation of politicians considers the continent’s natural resources and wealth as a challenge for growth and not as a threat. the recent evolution in the european context of shale gas developments suggests a growing need for a clear, predictable and coherent approach to unconventional fossil fuels. this is how we reach optimal decisions in an area involving social and environmental issues, industrial competitiveness and, in particular, public trust. based on american experience – because we do not have any european experience on this – shale gas is potentially the biggest energy development since the 1920s, as big a change as when we switched from using coal to oil. the shale gas-related developments in the usa will have a profound impact on global energy demand and geopolitics. the us has already surpassed russia as the world’s largest gas producer and the price of gas in the us has collapsed, making the price in the us between usd 3 and 4 per unit, while in europe the price is usd 10-14. a european single market for gas has been a concept we have been hearing about from the commission for some time now. one of the key and legitimate concerns of the european energy liberalisation project was that liberalisation would have limited effect unless there were new sources of gas. if states were still largely dependent on the same external suppliers for their gas liberalisation, a single market would not prosper. shale gas could add a new dynamic to the european gas market. this in turn could lead to increasing global gas to gas competition, having a major effect on prices and avoiding indexation to oil prices. with a correct safety approach, highest safety standards and the application of best available technologies, shale gas could be a huge gain to eu energy security and diversity, as well as a potential contributing factor to europe’s reindustrialisation in the years to come. europe needs a vision and a clear message of how gas fits into its energy policy. whether we use shale gas or not, in as little time as we have been hearing about it we have already been witnesses to its significance as a global energy trendsetter for markets, energy demand and cost partners. shale gas is perhaps not the panacea for europe’s energy problems overall. unconventional fuels are still at an infant stage in europe and we should explore the options available and the possible benefits as rigorously as we examine and analyse the potential environmental effects. on the commission’s side, coordination between dg energy, dg enterprise, dg environment and dg climate action will now be vital as you take this forward. commissioners, i wish you good luck for the sake, the goodwill and the survival of european citizens.
colleagues, i just wanted to inform you that as regards blue cards i will accept those cards which are raised during the initial speech of the speaker and not during the question which is put to him. apparently we will have a lot of blue cards during this discussion.
mr president, this is a general question to everybody who has spoken up to now. they referred to lobbyists. please, since i am the rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i do not need any lobbyists to influence me. i am old enough to have my own opinion. so, with all due respect, please, criticise what i have written but do not refer to my text as being the outcome of lobbyists or influenced by lobbyists. this is my text. the shadow rapporteurs have worked on this and we have come to a consensus on many things. this is the product of collective work that has been done within the itre committee. the criticism should be of us as writers with no reference to lobbying or that lobbyists have influenced us. the second question is the following. since i am the rapporteur on this, do you not think that i have taken into account all the hazards and all the risks that shale gas may pose? as i told you from the beginning, this is a challenge for growth and not a threat. this is the scope in which i have seen this text.
mr president, we are discussing rules and standards for this particular type of mining, but we must not forget that these rules and standards must also be respected. i would like to say, as other colleagues have done, that i really do condemn the trade in hope that has been built up around these potential reserves. we are talking specifically about natural gas reserves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we knew where and how much of these reserves are, we wouldn't need to do any research. but it seems that some people want to deceive the growing number of unemployed in our countries and to mislead public opinion by offering not real solutions to unemployment but hopes of a future paradise. i ask that this demagogy and this trade in hope be stopped here and now. we must tell the truth to our fellow citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas prices are not lower than they should be. the price of oil is decided on the international stock exchanges. natural gas is linked to this price. the prices of both are rising steadily. real energy independence is to get rid of coal.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are grateful for the many suggestions, criticisms and questions and will certainly continue our work between several commissioners and our services on this basis in the coming weeks. it's about precision over speed. the rules of procedure have been laid down today. what we do not have is a mandate from the energy policy side or a general mandate to decide on shale gas with a yes or no. a ban or a general authorization without further commitments cannot be the competence of european policy. what we have, what my colleague has first of all, are the rules in force, a valid european legal framework for environmental protection, for soil and groundwater protection and also for health protection. it must be respected. member states are obliged to comply. if there's any wrongdoing, you investigate it. the question is - and we are analysing this - whether we need to extend our legislation on the environment, climate, nature and health. secondly, the european energy mix is already being affected by the development of shale gas in america. we have today greater quantities of lng from different producing countries in the world in europe because this gas is no longer exported to the usa. this means that the americans are securing their own gas needs through shale gas, and we have access to lng gas with existing and planned lng terminals. the competition between member states to build new lng terminals and to receive support, whether through the eib or through the budget, is as great in the three baltic states as it is in the mediterranean, the adriatic, croatia, slovenia and italy. we have a second indirect advantage from shale gas in the united states. the russians were prepared to enter into negotiations, to go to arbitration with us, when it came to long-term contracts and maximum prices for gas, thanks to the shale gas revolution. and some of the gas contracts with the russians have already been changed and the gas price has been reduced somewhat because shale gas has brought a change, a discount on gas on the world market and will continue to bring. the order is therefore clear: we are reviewing the rules in force and are happy to update and extend them if necessary. one question i found intriguing: do we even need gas? i say to you explicitly that the energy mix, the technology, is a matter for the member states and i do not believe that a change to article 194 will be accepted by the member states in our generation because the circumstances of the member states are so different that the decision for or against nuclear power, or how long nuclear power, how much, for or against coal, gas, renewable energies is not left to the european level by the 28 member states. i don't have that expectation any time soon. if so, it is clear that important decisions are taken by the member states. i am in favour of a strong expansion of renewable energy. but 100 per cent renewable energy for transport, for heat, for electricity, for industry is a long-term vision at the moment, and if you want to achieve it too soon, it's an illusion. in fact, it was widely understood here in parliament that gas is the most flexible and environmentally friendly complementary energy source for security of supply alongside rising renewables. mr president, i would like to say to you that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of introducing a new system of energy prices for the community, which is a system which is not only a system of energy prices but also a system of energy prices for the community. that means you have to ask the question. i argue that we will need gas, whether conventional or non-conventional, for the next 30 years if the deployment of non-baseload, non-permanently available renewable energy sources such as solar and wind in europe is to remain compatible with security of supply and affordability. we cannot do without gas for the next few decades, and therefore ultimately - if we want to serve the co2 issue - we cannot do without ccs either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the three 20-20-20 criteria! they were created in 2007 by broad consensus, with the agreement of all member states in the european council and, at the same time, by a large majority in the european parliament. i have now started the discussion on new targets for 2030, because 2020 is tomorrow. and for investors, 2020 was yesterday. my request is this: despite all the disagreements, if we want to reach an agreement among all the member states, from belgium to germany to poland and the uk, on energy and climate policy and thus retain competence and authority in energy policy matters, also for the next and the next european parliament, then we need a willingness to compromise. if everyone here is trying to achieve their own ideals or to be a bigot, it's going to go wrong! we need a compromise between energy strategy and environmental protection. we need a willingness to compromise between countries that have 90% coal - poland today - and do not want to import gas from russia, because this is their lesson from their history, which is why poland is relying on nuclear power and on shale gas. we need the british to be willing to compromise so that, like tony blair, they are prepared to continue to europeanise energy and climate policy and not allow re-national developments to follow. because one thing is clear: when it comes to climate protection, each member state alone is of no global relevance! the eu-27 we are still responsible for 11% of global co2 emissions. if we do not stand together, if we do not compromise, if we do not condemn lobbying and dependence on lobbyists, if we do not set new pragmatic targets for 2030 on co2 emissions reductions, efficiency and renewable energy, then this success story of european energy and climate policy will end sooner than some people think, but with it our importance to washington and beijing and to others and our role as a model. so, apart from the issue of shale gas, i would ask you all to be willing to compromise if the success story of a european energy and climate policy is to continue with you or your successors in the next decade. i see difficulties at the moment, with the anti-european sentiment in a growing number of member states, with the incredible diversity in the energy mix and with the growing mistrust that we have seen in this house today, in terms of advancing binding targets on co2 emissions reductions, renewable energy and efficiency.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is good that we have this debate in the afternoon rather than in the evening. i will try to start with some facts. there is still a lot of uncertainty when it comes to shale gas. reserves, best technology, influence on health, influence on the environment. i think the best proof for that fact is the differences in the positions in the member states; obviously they are basing their positions on something which is a solid analysis and they are coming to quite different conclusions. the second important fact is that it is true that the us is ahead of us. it is also true that this has changed their energy market there, but maybe in this case their being ahead of us is not so bad and we should learn from their experiences. by the way, they are also learning from their own experiences. if there is one thing that really is clear today, it is that we need more knowledge, we need more understanding, we need better studies and we should continue doing that. what we already know is that there are considerable risks in a number of areas: surface and ground water, air quality, land use, biodiversity, seismic risks, local communities’ traffic and noise disturbances. these have been identified as areas to which attention needs to be paid. you probably know that in september we published three studies. one study, on the economic potential, was made by günther oettinger’s services. another study, on climate impact, was carried out by connie hedegaard’s departments, and the third was on the environmental impact. what can be concluded – even if one conclusion is of course that we should continue with work of this kind in an analytical way – is that there are two conclusions we can draw from an environmental point of view and our analyses.first, the risks related to unconventional gas exploration are higher than in conventional gas exploration. second, existing environmental legislation on the ea, the ca, the mining directive, the water framework directive, reach and so on, is important and applicable and should be applied today. but it is not sufficient to address all the risks identified. so it is on that basis actually that we have proposed what we are here today together to explain. we have drawn up the proposal jointly. the form has not yet been decided because this is also connected, of course, with the impact assessment which we are starting, but i would just like to remind everybody that the international energy agency (iea) position also is, and i quote, ‘there is a clear need for a strict regulatory framework’. i would also like to touch on the question many of you brought up, the question of competitiveness. i am not denying, rather i am acknowledging, that some industries, especially industries which have higher energy inputs and costs of course, are very affected by how energy prices are moving, as are households. of course this is important. but to give you just one fact: last week i was at the vdi, at the german innovation engineering federation, and they have actually said quite clearly that the average input costs for german manufacturing industry are 2% energy, 42% materials and 18% labour. i think that this is why i am also paying so much attention, if you remember, to resource efficiency because i firmly believe this is one of the ways of not only addressing environmental concerns, but also of addressing issues connected to the competitiveness of europe. if we look at the trends in prices for resources, not just energy resources, but also energy resources, since the beginning of this century, we see that these prices have begun to go up fast and the expectation is that this will continue. so i think we should really focus and prepare regarding the questions of how we can improve resource productivity, resource efficiency and how we can also improve energy efficiency. the third issue i would like to mention from the competitiveness angle is that we can, of course, also learn the lesson that not respecting safety, human health and environmental health considerations can also be very costly for companies. we only need to recall the judgment last week imposing a usd 4.5 billion fine on british petroleum. we should really do everything possible to ensure something like that does not happen, that we manage the risks in an appropriate way. concerning the possibility of a ban: i think many of you mentioned that. it is more theoretical than actually practical because at the end of the day, you know the responsibilities of the member states under the treaty and we also know that if there were to be a proposal of this kind, we would need unanimity from the member states. in the context of the moratorium which many of you mentioned, what i would like to say is that activities in europe are currently at exploration stage. intensified drilling and hydraulic fracturing are not expected for another two to three years from now, but full-scale hydraulic fracturing will also be deployed during the exploration stage for pilot product testing and this may give rise to certain risks and very likely also to public concerns. the commission’s timeline for conducting the impact assessment is deemed suitable for identifying the most appropriate risk management measures, both with regard to exploration and to extraction. but i would like to emphasise that parliament should rest assured that the commission will keep abreast of and react to any development which would change that timeline. in this exercise it will be also important of course for member states to apply all the obligations pursuant to current union legislation. so where are we now? we have impact assessments in the making. the public consultation will be open until the end of the year and next year we plan to come with a risk management proposal which should efficiently and effectively address the existing risks. i think this is basically in everybody’s interests. clear, predictable, safe conditions under which exploitation could be possible, proper management of risks connected with human health and protection of the environment. we know that we have to address all those questions now. that is why we are rushing with our preparations and we shall do our best to earn the public trust needed. honestly, we have no guarantee, but we really need that trust. first and foremost, trust may be needed by the companies which could potentially invest huge amounts of money. finally, i think that shale gas has potential, especially as a substitute for coal. but we should not forget that shale gas is a fossil fuel and in that context we should not forget either that we are supporting the development of renewable energy with good reason, and we should continue doing that, as günther oettinger also mentioned. so finally i would like to thank you for the reports which were really timely and also for today’s quite lively discussion. rest assured that we will take your messages into consideration and the risks which you raised will be dealt with in our 2013 proposal. we will also consider risk management and regulatory shortcomings in our impact assessment.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody for the very lively debate. i can see mr bütikofer smiling: you were indeed full of passion today. i thank the shadow rapporteurs from every political group. we cooperated very well – including mr bütikofer – and i think we came up with a good compromise text, even if it does come from the committee on industry, research and energy. the focus should be – and it is – on industry and energy. we did not ignore all the precautions that have to be taken by the industry when they are fracking. so i appeal to my colleagues for tomorrow’s vote. we have to recognise the potential in shale gas. it is not the solution for the future but it is a potential one for the transitional period. we have to compromise and see what the best alternative is that we have for meeting our targets for clean energy in europe. last and not least, from our side as politicians, we have to have a balance with the economic crisis that exists within the 27 member states. we have to respect the natural resources that each member state has and see that they are explored and exploited in the best way, using the best environmentally friendly methods and techniques. for the commissioners, it looks like we are at the beginning of a long journey concerning and referring to shale gas. we still have a long way to go and we still have to analyse all the impacts this will have, not only on the environment, but also on the competitiveness of the european economy. i think we have started well with this debate today and i wish good luck to this new, natural resource in europe. europe deserves it and we politicians have to make the best out of it in the best environmentally friendly way.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me stress again that i consider the situation at the ford factory in genk to be extremely serious. that is why eight days ago i received a delegation of the trade unions of this company and discussed with representatives of the employees themselves what the commission can do in this particular situation, particularly by using the european globalisation adjustment fund, but also in the broader context in cooperation with the authorities of belgium, also using the european social fund if allocations are available. but i also want to stress that similarly to many who have spoken in this debate, i consider the question of the industry to be extremely serious and very relevant. that is why, together with mr tajani, we have been working on a reinforced industrial policy for the european union which sets out a very concrete numerical objective until 2020: to reverse the industrial decline of europe, to increase the share of industry within the european economy to at least 20 % of the european gdp from its current level of 16%. of course this requires a very concerted effort. it also requires a sectoral view when necessary and when justified and clearly the automotive sector is one of those where we need a concrete sectoral focus and an action plan. in fact the cars 2020 action plan delivers. it delivers many requirements which you mentioned in this discussion. for example, in terms of innovation, it does not lower but actually increases the ambition. it also points to the possible financing tools by which the european union can help the revival of this sector. but, as mr harbour also pointed out, there is a need for a certain level of realism, a need to see what globalisation, global competition, cost-effectiveness means in this sector, what skills are needed in the future; and that is why the anticipation of change, the anticipation of structural development in cooperation with the social partners involved is so important in this area. this is actually one of the key lessons of our consultation, on the basis of the commission green paper, on restructuring which we conducted in the first half of this year; and on the basis of this consultation, which included a broader range of stakeholders and not only the social partners, we are very carefully considering the necessary steps forward. in that of course we pay very close attention to the work of mr cercas as rapporteur and certainly we will consider his conclusions, which i believe are forthcoming in december in this parliament, when we decide in the commission on the necessary steps forward. i certainly take note of many points made in this debate concerning the wish for a more robust, more interventionist industrial policy. i have to admit that what is there, a 2.0 industrial policy – it has been reinforced as compared to the original version in the europe 2020 strategy, it does a lot more in terms of innovation, in terms of human capital, in terms of access to markets, access to finance – is certainly not exactly the same type of planned economy which i heard from some of the interventions. we definitely cannot establish a planned economy retroactively and give a capacity to the european commission to come with concrete intervention potential to cases when some of these companies, multinationals, decide to relocate. but i share your view when you say that these industrial policies should be better coordinated with the development of our financial institutions, including the european investment bank. indeed, not only the ford case but some other cases are controversial and we need to look into the decisions of the eib and see, especially in the context of the capital increase which the commission also has advocated in the case of the eib; without, of course, interfering too much with the business plan of the eib. but i think this would be justified if there is an effort in europe to increase the financial capacity of the eib. there should also be a discussion of how the eib could refocus its financing actually on the european member states and coordinate these projects better with the need to revive european manufacturing and in particular to help the relatively weaker regions. that also brings me to the questions of the mff because several speakers, including the rapporteur, miss harkin, but also mr daerden, mentioned the globalisation adjustment fund, which is indeed our key instrument for intervention in such cases. it is an ex post instrument, once restructuring has already been announced. but it is also an ex ante instrument because, through training, through various forms of education, promoting enterprise, it can actually prepare many workers involved for future economic or business activities. that is a capacity, a merit, a potential in the egf which i hope those in the european council will appreciate later this week when they consider the social dimension of the mff and the instruments that can support workers who are very often the victims of careless industrial decisions. i think this has been an extremely important discussion. i would like to connect it to the morning’s discussion when we were together here with vice-president tajani to discuss the questions of industry and what the commission can do for what the vice-president calls an industrial revolution in the european union, and i will certainly share with my colleagues the points and lessons of this debate, especially on the question of restructuring. i agree with many of you that we have a lot to do.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on steel in the eu by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000184/2012 - b7-0368/2012)
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the speeches of all the members who have spoken this evening are aimed at the competitiveness of the european industrial system. the steel sector - as i said in my first speech, in reply to mr sartori's question - is a key element. of course, competing in the world today means facing a reality that is completely different from the past, as many members have pointed out during this debate. that is why, at the last competitiveness council, we discussed the subject of industrial policy, its strength at global level, the problems facing us in a context which has changed from that of the 1950s. the debate is also under way within the commission: i have received a letter on this general subject from seven highly industrialized countries - luxembourg, france, italy and germany - which insist that a debate be opened on this issue, as well as on the question of state aid. commissioner almunia, responsible for competition policy, intends to present a reform proposal. the debate is also open within the commission, because we cannot fail to keep up with the times, bearing in mind that the rules of competition are fundamental to growth and that we cannot fail to defend the internal market. but i understand from the contributions of all the members that this is a subject for discussion and reflection in the coming months if we want our industrial system to be competitive. the internal market policy - i am replying to mr pervenche berès - must also be involved in this action: commissioner barnier is certainly one of the strongest supporters of a european industrial policy and he has always given me support for all the initiatives i have wanted to take, including the steel initiative. this leads me to say that there has certainly been a political reversal in europe. i insist on the 20% target because, alongside the 20% co2 emission reduction and the 20% renewables, there is also the 20% of gross domestic product linked to industrial policy. of course, there is still much to be done in the steel sector: i am referring to the ets issue raised by several members of parliament. the commission has already given a positive reply on compensation: we have been able to authorize up to 85% of the amounts for state aid in this sector and we have included all the major industrial sectors, including steel. the commission has put forward a proposal on back-loading, and the ball is now in the court of the european parliament, which can give its decisive opinion, because without the support of parliament and the council nothing is possible in this area. but i have taken note of the concerns expressed, although we must do something - i believe it is possible - to reconcile environmental policy and industrial policy. i now reply to mr durant and i do so in french. the new framework programmes and horizon 2020 will offer new opportunities to finance research and development and to move towards more efficient production in terms of resources and energy. the steel industry, in conjunction with other industries, has already submitted a proposal for a new public-private partnership called spire. i think that these appropriations can therefore also be used in the next financial perspective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market. but a raw materials strategy is also essential for the steel sector. as you know, we have signed a number of agreements with non-european countries, and we have also launched the innovation partnership, particularly in the field of substitution, recycling and extraction of raw materials. this is a strong action, which will be financed under the current but also the next financial perspective and which will see the european parliament particularly involved. as far as terni is concerned, i believe that commissioner almunia has acted in full compliance with the rules in force. i think that the fact that the industrial site at terni has been kept compact and united is an absolutely positive element, which can allow its sale: unpacking would have been much more dangerous for the protection of that industrial site. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. as regards the pipeline, it is true that it was not integrated with the rest of the site; but it is a reality that is not - even geographically - closely linked, even though there is, as far as i understand, the willingness on the part of the present owner to sell the pipeline. i therefore believe that the problem raised by mr angelilli can also be solved by protecting an industrial site which is important not only for italy but for the whole of the european union. i therefore stress the importance of an industrial policy for the union and we will discuss this again at the next competitiveness council on 10 december, a competitiveness council to which we want to give greater importance and strengthen the role of industrial policy and the representatives of industry. i thank the cypriot presidency for its help in this matter. i also intend to convene the ministers of industry on the evening of 9 december to discuss the automobile crisis, which is closely linked to the steel crisis. the commission is strongly committed to protecting our industrial system, making it more modern, more competitive, more environmentally friendly, but also, of course, a fundamental instrument for overcoming the crisis and thus protecting employment. i am absolutely convinced that the sacrifices we have asked of our fellow citizens are absolutely indispensable. but when these sacrifices are not accompanied by a strong growth policy - and therefore also by a strong industrial policy - they risk not only being useless but, above all, being harmful to our fellow citizens. that is why it is important to work on both fronts and it is my responsibility and my will to support strongly the growth policy throughout the european union, by protecting, strengthening and making the steel industry more competitive.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the december partsession. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the forthcoming world conference on international telecommunications (wcit-2012) of the international telecommunications union and the possible extension of the scope of the international telecommunications regulations.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would first like to thank all the members who have supported the commission's position in its commitment to speak with one voice to the european union and to defend not only internet freedom but also the union's values. vice-president kroes will be informed of this debate. but you have to read the plans. the solutions currently proposed by parliament would undermine the efforts made by the commission over the past few months to obtain a negotiating mandate from the council in the context of the world conference on international telecommunications. in accordance with article 118 of the treaty, europe - i insist - must speak out if we are to defend the internet free from control and interference.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, because in my initial statement i was a little too much on time, i will be very brief. given the importance of conferences such as the wcit for the future of the digital agenda for europe, the views of all institutions are welcome. we should also have a clear understanding of what the role of these conferences should be, which concern such a wide constituency and a field in which technology and content are evolving so rapidly. this is why it is necessary to avoid micro-regulation and to ensure instead that the revised regulations maintain a high level and remain strategically and technologically neutral. i would like to thank you for your interest in the wcit and for your intention to adopt the resolution. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the presidency is fully committed to facilitating the representation of the european union's positions in dubai, positions which will be in line with the acquis and will promote a more dynamic digital europe.
motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later stage. the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday 22 november 2012. (the sitting was suspended at 8.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) )
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. for many years, as is well known, the european union has established an unprecedented network of repression, surveillance and prosecution mechanisms such as the euro-police, eurojust, frontex, anti-terrorism legislation, harmonisation of criminal legislation, external border surveillance system, strengthening of police and judicial cooperation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. this increased file capacity is now being served by the new second generation schengen information system. the sys ii system also abolishes the personal data protection checks, since it allows personal data, including biometric data, to be recorded and any person who, in the arbitrary judgment of the law enforcement mechanisms, is suspected of having committed criminal offences to be subjected to discretionary surveillance. the amendments to the european parliament's report on data accuracy and the alleged supervision by the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities are intended to cover up the - in fact - orgy of the dossier at eu and national level. the european union's notorious area of freedom and security reveals its nightmarish form as a place of strangulation of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms and unchecked action of repressive mechanisms to protect the power of monopolies from the resistance of the peoples, from the struggles of the popular movement.
mr president, allow me to thank our rapporteur, mr coelho, for his excellent work on schengen and, of course, for his flexibility on the specific issue of the new second generation information system. we have been talking in europe for more than 11 years, because that is how long the debate has been going on, about when we will be able to complete the sis ii system, and we are here today in this chamber again talking about some possible delays. you know, in my home country of greece, we have a legend that became a folk song about the gephir of arta that could not be extinguished. "in the morning they built it, in the evening they demolished it", the song goes. the implementation of the information system is also reminiscent of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, there are security issues that we need to resolve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. these are very serious issues, but from a technical point of view, new technologies can now provide us with immediate solutions. to solve the mystery, the bridge was finally solidified by the sacrifice of the master builder's wife. i hope that in our case we will not have to make any further sacrifices to the european union, apart from the time already lost and the increased costs that have been eventually required. sis ii is a system we all need for our security. the sis ii is a system whose implementation must start immediately. we have the craftsmen and therefore we have the possibility to create this bridge to the evolution of the schengen area.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, mr chichester deserves congratulations on his good report and i would like to add my own. the work of the committee on petitions, mr president, is extremely important for the defence of the rights of european citizens and democratic institutions in the european area. it is positive that the number of new referrals to the committee increased in 2011. the committee dealt with a variety of reports. the free movement of persons, the internal market, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and environmental issues were the main areas of focus of the committee's work. as indicated in the report, there is an increase in referrals in the area of economic and financial affairs as a consequence of the current debt crisis. the content of the reports received by the committee reflects the concerns and issues that affect and concern european citizens. in this context, the call for improvement of the commission's web portal through the european parliament website is important in order to enhance the efficiency, transparency of the referral process and to provide better information to european citizens.
the european parliament has made a clear statement on the multiannual financial framework. the commission's position is in complete contradiction both with the presidency's position and with the text of president van rompuy. in times of crisis and austerity programmes in the member states, the european multiannual budget can be both realistic and ambitious and support strategy 2020, employment, student mobility, research and science and thus europe's place in a highly competitive world. mr president, if you set goals, you must also find the means to achieve them. how can the european leadership be pretending to be themselves? how can it be that its attitude is reinforcing a return to introversion and nationalism? the european budget must not only express solidarity but also preserve the european perspective, because europe cannot go on an automatic pilot in the future. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. community funding needs to be coordinated at the level of objectives and, therefore, at the level of results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the council must immediately back down and accept the positions expressed here today in parliament and those of the commission, because both bodies are prepared to find a fair compromise for the benefit of the citizens, which will also strengthen the values of the european union for its position.
in writing. the long-term budget of the european union is a strategic tool for investment, for boosting growth and competitiveness and, of course, for creating jobs throughout europe. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. as regards cohesion policy, the proposals by the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, for cuts of €29.5 billion compared to the european commission's proposal, is the fourth wave of cuts since this proposal was presented. the same 27 countries that in june unanimously decided on the need for investment are now competing to see who will propose the biggest cuts in a purely investment budget, the european one. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission's proposal is not a good one. the dispute between the european parliament and the council is not about money, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the future of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, in line with article 246(2) of the tfeu, the council has consulted the european parliament on its intention to appoint, in common accord with the president of the european commission, mr tonio borg as commissioner for the health and consumer policy portfolio. the vote that you have carried out just now expresses parliament’s opinion with regard to the council’s intention to appoint mr borg. the commission welcomes the result and it is now for the council, in common accord with the president of the european commission, to take the next steps. i know that there is a big agenda ahead and once the procedure is completed mr borg would start immediately, as he promised in the hearing.
madam president, because there was no debate on this very important subject i just wanted to say a few words. i will continue in my language, latvian. godātie kolēģi! divpusējais nolīgums par tarifa likmes kvotu pārvaldību koksnes eksportam no krievijas uz eiropas savienību ir nozīmīgs garants tam, ka tirdzniecība ar krieviju ieies stabilākā un daudz prognozējamākā gultnē. pievienojoties pasaules tirdzniecības organizācijai, krievija ir piekritusi samazināt izvedmuitas nodokļus izejvielām, to skaitā divu tipu skujkokiem: priedei un eglei. nolīgums ir ļoti būtisks, jo nosaka konkrētu kvotu daļu, kuras ietvaros ir ievērojami zemāki ievedmuitas nodokļi. galvenais ieguvējs būs eiropas savienības kokapstrādes industrija. mūsu uzņēmumi ievedmuitas nodokļos no krievijas tagad maksās gandrīz divas reizes mazāk kā līdz šim. varam sagaidīt, ka importa apjomi tuvākajos gados tuvināsies tiem, kādi tie bija pirms 2008. gada, kad, krievijai negaidīti palielinot izvedmuitas nodokļus, eiropas savienības koksnes imports skujkokiem, apaļkokiem samazinājās par 80%. tāpat ļoti svarīgi ir atzīmēt, ka šim nolīgumam ir pievienots protokols, kas satur saistošus noteikumus par strīdu atrisināšanas procedūru. mums ir izdevies panākt arī parlamentam nozīmīgu uzvaru, proti, grozījumi tirdzniecības nolīgumā turpmāk būs veicami parastās likumdošanas procedūras ietvaros, kaut gan padome sākotnēji bija ierosinājusi piešķirt īstenošanas pilnvaras komisijai, tādējādi ierobežojot parlamenta pilnvaras. paldies tirdzniecības komitejas darbiniekiem, paldies kolēģiem par lielisko palīdzību, un es aicinu jūs atbalstīt šo nolīgumu. paldies!
rapporteur. − you can find the oral amendment at the end of your voting lists. it is paragraph 12: ‘reiterates its call on the commission to come forward by the end of 2013’. the text had stated ‘2012’, but that was unrealistic so it is now 2013. this is the oral amendment: 2013 instead of 2012.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2012 for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following the earthquakes in emilia-romagna, italy and amending the budget line for the preparatory action for the european year of volunteering 2011. it is regrettable that during the conciliation period the council sought to include this amending budget in the package of negotiations on the eu budget for the financial year 2013. in this way it caused an unjustified delay in the mobilisation of the solidarity fund related to the corrective budget and therefore in the more immediate relief of the inhabitants of the area affected by the earthquake. it is only thanks to the european parliament's position, which insisted that the mobilisation of the fund should not be held hostage to the outcome of the 2013 budget negotiations, that the council decided to approve ipa 5 - and this after the 2013 budget negotiations had reached a deadlock. this is a good example of the european parliament's responsible stance but raises the question of why the council insisted on including fp5 in the 2013 budget negotiations.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and welcome the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the earthquakes in the emilia-romagna region of italy, which in may 2012 caused the death of 27 people, injured 350 and the evacuation of more than 45000 residents from the area. at the same time, significant damage was recorded to basic infrastructure, businesses, agriculture and cultural heritage. the priority now is to restore as soon as possible normal living conditions for the people affected by the earthquakes and to speed up the recovery of economic activity in the area. the eu solidarity fund is once again proving its importance in responding to major natural disasters by providing financial assistance to the affected states. however, i can only express my regret that it took six months to complete the procedure for mobilising the fund. the three institutions must therefore work to make the operations of the solidarity fund faster and more flexible. in this way we will be able to ensure the real added value of the instrument in question.
in writing. common agreement in the european parliament is the encouraging increase in citizens' activation through complaints of maladministration or breach of community law. this development clearly improves accountability, control and therefore democratic functioning at both union and member state level. however, the delayed or incorrect transposition of community law in the member states is still a phenomenon. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the commission to use all possible means to ensure that the member states transpose union legislation in a timely and correct manner and reiterates the importance of strengthening and coordinating the legal training of the member states' judges in order to create a european awareness of community law.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs javella's report because i believe it is a balanced report which sets out policy on the future of shale gas in the union and at the same time gives due attention to the environmental dimension of the issue. shale gas, as a new form of energy at a critical time for the european economy, can be a source of growth and a breath of fresh air for european industries in dealing with the extremely high energy costs and energy dependence of the european union.
in writing. it remains worrying that most of the reports made by european citizens concern issues of fundamental rights and justice. the number of references in this direction increased in 2011, mainly due to the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty, and concern a matter which the committee responsible has examined repeatedly. in this report, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament calls on the commission to apply the charter not conservatively but dynamically, responding to the expectations of citizens as they arise from the incorporation of the charter into the treaty. at the same time, and despite the fact that its position was not accepted at the first stage, the european parliament insists that the abolition of the age limit for referrals should be adopted and that open hearings in the european parliament should be introduced as symbolic and substantive acts to strengthen democracy and accountability at community level.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the report. the main focus of the committee on petitions’ work during 2011 has been on the environment and fundamental rights/justice. this is no different from other years and therefore only confirms the trends. the prominence of these issues during 2011 runs like a beacon through all the work of the committee: discussions on petitions in committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings and fact-finding visits. as expressed in the report, the need to step up efforts to provide better information to direct citizens’ concerns to the right interlocutor and to explain the competencies of different levels of government and public administration is the goal.
mr president, parliament has full faith in the commissioner. we know that she is a woman who not only tries to do her best but someone who does the best possible. the target, as we see it, is not a success in doha. the target is a success in the negotiations for an agreement in 2015. this is a country-by-country fight. we are fighting to win the hearts and minds of people and bureaucracies, each time in one more country and then in another and another. qatar has been one of the difficult partners in this negotiation. now it holds in its hands the very future of these negotiations for an agreement in 2015 – for one whole year. may it be that, by the end of cop 18, qatar becomes a pioneer in these negotiations. it has, as you also told us yesterday, the highest per capita income in the world. may it be a main and important contributor for climate action across the world. nevertheless, the message that comes from the parliament is that you are not going to doha empty-handed. a year ago we had the decision in durban on lulucf. as you might know, we, with the council, are way ahead in negotiations for a decision on lulucf legislation. this is a clear commitment from our side that we believe in these negotiations and that we are willing to do everything to make them a reality.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues, commissioner füle and all those who have contributed to the preparation of this strategic report of the european parliament. the report comes at a critical juncture. · at a time when the economic crisis is shaking the european fabric in many countries, both inside and outside the european union, there is talk of enlargement fatigue. the main objective of this report is therefore to emphasize the importance of enlargement policy. a policy which has proved to be the most successful expression of the union's external action and the quintessence of its soft power. for decades, enlargement has indeed helped to consolidate peace in europe. it was a key factor in the reunification of the continent after the end of the cold war and continues to provide incentives for further reforms and democratisation in the countries looking to join. the european union has made a major contribution to the enlargement process, and it is important that the union's efforts to achieve this are recognised. the disappointment some feel is nevertheless justified. the union seems to be setting the bar higher and higher, while statements by european politicians have at times damaged its credibility, especially in terms of the capacity of a particular country to join or absorb. the report confirms the central role of the copenhagen criteria and attaches great importance to the policy of conditionality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of the candidate countries to the european union is not delayed. the union's demands on each country must be absolutely clear from the outset. at the same time, all the concrete steps must be defined from the outset with benchmarks - time-dials - which will allow an objective assessment of a country's progress. in the context of the current economic crisis, which is creating legitimate fears and uncertainty about the future, there is a need for better information and promotion of the benefits of the enlargement process. this is important for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the candidate countries. the main issue, however, is the credibility of the union: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of the candidate countries into the european union. the credibility of the union's promise of accession is an essential component of the policy of selectivity. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the member states' taxation systems is a step in the right direction. i would like to take this opportunity to welcome the commission's new negotiating approach which puts the rule of law and fundamental rights at the heart of the accession process. i look forward to the debate and thank once again all those who have helped to draw up this report.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs coppa on her excellent report. the report confirms the european parliament's commitment to enlargement policy and introduces innovative approaches to improve it. the new realities, such as the economic crisis and global challenges, call for a new approach to enlargement. the commission has already made a number of interesting proposals in this respect. the recommendation in the report that bilateral disputes should be settled before accession negotiations are opened is particularly welcome. i also welcome the proposal to introduce performance and benchmarks into the accession process, thus making it a more transparent and democratic process, and the proposal to strengthen the social dimension of government by enhancing the involvement of civil society. potential enlargement, provided that the copenhagen criteria are respected and the european acquis and its values are upheld, is a tool for strengthening the union. the bible says: "be fruitful and become many and fill the earth". i personally hope that the apparent present disintegration of the european union will be temporary.
mr president, it is unnecessary for me to add my own comments to those of my colleagues on the very good work and the high quality of mrs coppa's report. i shall only refer to the crucial issue of the outstanding bilateral issues which should be resolved by the candidate countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the report, and in particular paragraph 26, addresses this issue in a realistic, politically sound and clear way. the outstanding bilateral problems, in particular those relating to good neighbourly relations between a candidate country and a member state, must be resolved before accession negotiations can begin. after all that, there's one more thing left to add: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a serious matter which i think we should look at again.
mr president, in paragraphs 26, 27 and 28 the report attempts to turn international disputes, including those concerning military occupation such as kosovo and cyprus, into bilateral disputes under the auspices of the european union, which will undertake to resolve them on the basis of the overall interests of the union, as expressly stated, and not on the basis of international law. the report calls on the european union to intervene in the political system of the acceding countries by financing, through pre-accession aid, the mechanisms of the bourgeois state, various ngos and the labour aristocracy of the trade unions. the report, however, expresses the increasingly aggressive, imperialist character and role of the european union and calls for an intensification of this role against the peoples and member states and the acceding countries as well as the peoples of europe in particular. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been an important debate with important messages. what a perfect time to remind ourselves, our member states, the commission and our aspirant candidate countries, firstly, that enlargement has never been a part of the problem! it has always been a part of the solution; secondly, that the european union has never been about building walls, but about eliminating dividing lines through its values and principles; and thirdly, that there is no more powerful instrument of transformation than enlargement. this is an absolutely unique instrument we have in our hands. we need to use it wisely throughout our neighbourhood. that leads me to the important contributions in this debate. i see six of them. the first one is the contribution to the debate of the interaction of the integration process, going deeper and deeper and, at the same time, extending the european union. what has made this european union big and strong? enlargement alone? i doubt it. going deeper and deeper? i doubt it. it is a combination of the two. let us not cut off one our arms now because we are facing many problems and say that the time for the enlargement will come. no! it is this interaction between enlargement and deeper integration which is actually making the european union a stronger union. it is in that context, whether we call it an association membership or whatever, that we should have that discussion about a multilayered european union. whether we call it political union or a federation of national states, it needs to be an enlargement-friendly union. at a time when the member states are debating the various levels of the integration, let us open at some point the issue of to what extent we allow candidate countries – maybe not those which are in the pipeline, but others, to which some of you referred – different ways of being a part of this tremendous european project. the second message concerns credibility – credibility through the lessons learned and credibility through engagement. we are being creative and we will continue to be creative because it is through that engagement that we are fighting reform fatigue. i am not too concerned about enlargement fatigue. we need to be aware that, if we are not careful enough, enlargement fatigue could turn into reform fatigue and then i would say that we have a problem. any problem in our neighbourhood is our problem. a third point concerns economic governance. let us make sure that aspirant and candidate countries are part of our efforts to address the issues of economic governance. let us make sure that through the accession negotiations we are not addressing only the acquis of the past, but also the acquis of the future. a fourth point concerns adequate financing. as far as i am concerned, it is not necessarily about more money. it is about those resources being spent better and this is definitely one of the issues where i need your support. the fifth point concerns bilateral issues. enlargement is not about importing open bilateral issues into the european union. we need to make sure that it does not also blow up the accession negotiation. we need to be sure that the unresolved, unaddressed bilateral issues do not create mines which could blow up before our eyes in the framework of the accession process. i am very open to finding ways – including the one of arbitration, turning to the hague and so on – to address those bilateral issues in parallel to the accession negotiation process. let us discuss the deadline by which you would like to see all the bilateral issues solved. i would be in favour of that deadline being the signing of the accession treaty because it is that accession process which creates a strong momentum for addressing those issues. my last point: let me finish where i started, with the nobel peace prize. if i think about the nobel peace prize – maybe it is my interpretation, maybe i am wrong – i think this european union got that prize exactly for its ability to put the deepening of integration and enlargement at the service of its people. needless to say, i see this nobel peace prize as a strong signal to the european union at this critical time; a signal not to look over our shoulders, not to look back, but to look forward.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, three final points i would like to make after this very interesting debate. firstly, the need to pay attention to the social dimension of enlargement, a subject which has been ignored for many years. we hope that the commission will put emphasis on social issues in the context of the evaluation of the negotiating chapter 19. it must ensure the participation of trade unions and civil society in the screening and monitoring processes and their targeted support through the pre-accession assistance mechanism. secondly, a subject which has been discussed a great deal here, namely bilateral relations. the bilateral issues, the bilateral differences are a reality. i therefore agree with the commissioner that they must be resolved as soon as possible. the union cannot afford to introduce open questions and there must be mechanisms - and we can all be very creative in that - to help in this direction. the third point is the budgetary part. the union must have the appropriate financial resources to match its growing ambitions. i therefore find the substantial reduction of resources of around 9% in chapter 4 of the next financial framework unacceptable. in conclusion, mr vigenin and i, the ipa-ii rapporteur, stressed the need to simplify the procedures for pre-accession assistance and i thank the commissioner in particular for his response to this central issue. i would like to join my colleagues in congratulating commissioner füle on his tireless efforts to push forward the great enlargement project. we are at a critical juncture, and our decisions and our next steps will determine the entire future of this project.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am honoured to speak to you today in accordance with the treaty on the common and security and defence policy on behalf of the high representative. the four parliamentary reports we are discussing are timely and relevant; they reflect the world we live in, where an action in a far corner of the world could have an impact in our home town. they demonstrate that our security is interconnected in various ways. hence i would like to express my appreciation for the amount of work which lies behind these four reports and for their quality. your suggestions and recommendations are important to us and we are happy to have parliament on our side as our partner but also as a fair critic. with three new missions on the ground in the sahel, south sudan and horn of africa and with two more under preparation, for mali and libya, we have seen some dynamic developments over the past year. we have also seen clear results from our efforts. the number of pirate attacks off the horn of africa has shrunk significantly. there have only been five successful attacks this year compared to 25 last year and 47 in 2010. security inside somalia has also improved and the government has now extended its power over a great part of its territory previously ruled by al-shabaab. eutm somalia played an important role in this positive development as 3000 somali soldiers will be trained by the end of this year and they are taking up their responsibility for somalia’s security. but despite these tangible results we must not become complacent. the high representative has said this on numerous occasions and it is worth repeating: we must continue to resource our missions and operations properly and we must continue working towards the goals we have set out for our ongoing missions and our operations. the people that we send into the field are doing a tremendous job often in very dangerous and difficult environments. we are very grateful for their work and for their dedication. our missions are effective and their results are sustainable only if they are part of a comprehensive approach. the example of the horn of africa is a good illustration of our approach. in the horn, we employ policies and instruments in a consistent and mutually reinforcing manner. in addition to the three csp operations and on the basis of a jointly agreed strategic framework for the region, there is strong political engagement, support for amisom through the african peace facility, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. we also work very closely with a variety of partners, which increases our impact and also leads to a better use of our resources. the comprehensive approach is about defining a correct policy mix and the proper sequencing of instruments, both at eu level and with member states. it is about overall consistency in our external relations, about bringing security to populations affected by conflict and alleviating poverty. as we are stepping up operational engagement in new crisis areas such as the sahel, we must continue working in a comprehensive manner. let me now turn to capabilities. the csdp allows the european union to act, but to act we must have capabilities. member states provide these capabilities and we all know that the financial crisis is putting a heavy burden on national budgets. defence capabilities are particularly affected. this is why our work on pooling and sharing is so important. synergies with wider european policies, research and development, dual use and the defence industry are also crucial. these themes are prominent in the report by mr danjean. both topics were on the agenda of the council of ministers of defence on 19 november 2012 and member states are taking a great interest. you are all aware that the president of the european council has decided to put defence on the agenda of the european council at the end of december 2013. this offers a very good opportunity to address these challenges at the highest political level. there are some common themes in the four reports: the need for comprehensiveness, close coordination in-house, but also with partners, full use of the post-lisbon set up, better use of resources and the efficiency of our efforts. indeed, in these trying economic times, these cannot be stressed enough. cyber security is a case in point. the report by mr kelam sets out the imminent need for stepping up eu-wide preventive measures and to improve horizontal cooperation within the eu institutions and agencies. we also need to bolster public-private partnerships in cyber security. the european external action service and the commission are preparing a joint commission-eeas communication on eu cyber security to ensure the adequate level of cyber security preparedness, also looking at cyber defence capabilities and training, as well as a coherent international cyber policy for the european union. we have already started active international cyber security cooperation, with an emphasis on the united states and on emerging markets as well as nato, the united nations, oecd, osce and other international organisations. they need to enhance collective knowledge of climate-related security challenges, as set out in the report by mr tarand. indeed, it is necessary to pursue efforts at eu and member state level, as well as in dialogue with external partners and civil society to identify climate security needs and to further strengthen our understanding of interlinkages between climate change development, environmental degradation, natural resources, migration or conflict. the challenge is to enhance early warning and move to early preventive action. the european union and member states are leading international efforts to enhance climate security by initiating policy dialogue, including at the un security council level and in its bilateral relations and by supporting concrete initiatives in the fields of climate risk management and adaptation. one example is the global climate change alliance, which has a strong focus on climate adaptation in the most climate vulnerable regions of the world. another area of work relates to the solidarity clause, which is designed for situations of major emergencies affecting the member states. the european external action service and the commission are currently working on a joint proposal to implement the clause. the report presented by mr paşcu is again very timely. we concur with the main lines of the report. i would like to underline some points which seem particularly important to us. as far as structures and procedures are concerned, the eu needs to possess crisis response structures with 24/7 monitoring and response capacity, able to provide early warning and up-to-date situation awareness to all relevant actors on all types of hazards and crises or disasters. the european union situation room and the commission’s monitoring and information centre are ready to support the process. also revised eu emergency and crisis coordination arrangements are suitable in this context. responding at eu political level in a coherent, efficient and timely way to crises of such a scale and nature requires one single set of arrangements. the four reports at hand today, on a variety of topics, all relate to european security, both internal and external. we look forward to continuing our work with you in our joint efforts to protect the security of our citizens and make the european union an increasingly effective contributor to global peace and security. i am really looking forward to the forthcoming debate and to your comments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, it is important that today, in a time of crisis, the european parliament sends a strong message of european solidarity and demonstrates its will and conviction that the solution to today's problems can only be achieved through policies with a genuinely pan-european dimension. the creation of a comprehensive common security and defence policy in europe has been a vision for decades in the history of european integration. the introduction into the treaty of lisbon of the two innovative clauses proposed by the european convention on the future of europe is moving in this direction. the final text of mr paşcu's report, which i congratulate on its work and warmly thank for the cooperation we have had throughout this period, presents in a realistic but ambitious way specific requirements and guidelines on the measures to implement the mutual defence and solidarity clause. in this process, clearer and different views were expressed on the character and nature of the two innovative terms. however, the complaints about the increased cost of the whole project, the possible problems and the question of the competences falling within nato's competence express more the fears of some member states than the reality. the truth is that the gradual establishment of a genuine common defence, security and defence policy could drastically reduce the unbearable cost of european defence spending without in the least affecting the commitments made in the framework of nato. mr president, the vice-president of the commission/high representative must now submit before the end of 2012 the joint proposal for a council decision setting out the arrangements for the two clauses. parliament is therefore awaiting this proposal.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i would like to congratulate mr danjean and all the other members on their reports, which are an excellent example of the creative work being done within the european parliament's subcommittee on defence and security. the socialists and democrats wish to stress the importance of strengthening european identity also in matters of defence and security. the union must have the means and capabilities necessary to develop its strategic autonomy and its capacity to provide security for its citizens. in the context of the current economic crisis, wider synergies and joint actions at european level are both imperative and functionally useful. but they should also allow the release of resources at national level which can be used in critical social areas. the european union must be able to provide effective defence and security for the citizens of europe, and that is the great stake.
the next item is the commission statement on the proposed directive on data protection - personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i thank the commissioner very much for coming to the european parliament and for her statement today. it is obvious to me, and we all agree, that the issue of protecting the personal data of european citizens is of the utmost importance and requires the necessary seriousness and attention from all of us. i would like to stress once again that we in the european parliament attach particular importance to this subject. the european parliament is therefore, and will continue to be, particularly strict and demanding of the other institutions of the union in this respect. as you know, commissioner, the european parliament has always wanted to have a single legislative instrument, a regulation covering all aspects and all areas of personal data protection, so that the public and private sectors are treated equally and that the processing of personal data by judicial and police authorities is also included. unfortunately, this wish was not respected, and today we have to deal with the proposals for a regulation and a directive. the commission's proposals were welcomed by parliament, but we decided to consider and treat them as a single legislative package, both in practice and in substance. i would like to stress that in our view there can be no regulation without a directive. we will insist on the logic of the package in order to ensure consistency and legal certainty. i am glad, commissioner, that your speech today has confirmed once again that the commission sees and treats a regulation and a directive as one package. i want you to believe that we have no complaints from the commission. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. unfortunately, i cannot say the same for the council. i wonder why the council is absent from today's debate. why is the council not here today to answer the oral question we have put? let me say that this is not only a sign of disrespect for the institution of the european parliament but also, as i feel compelled to conclude, it suggests that the council is not giving the necessary importance to this matter which is so important to european citizens. the council is unfortunately delaying its work on the directive. i wonder - and i think it is reasonable - why the council is refusing to cooperate, as it shows by its attitude. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the aim is to complete the procedures and implement the regulation and the directive as a package, to provide european citizens with a high level of protection of their personal data.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their support of the commission’s proposals. i would like to refer again to two main points. firstly, i would like to reconfirm that, for the commission, progress on this very important issue means that we are going to negotiate both the regulation and the directive as a package. we really mean it. we have gone through two pieces of legislation, in spite of parliament’s request, but now we have to focus on the procedure. i would like to confirm to everybody that we are going to insist on that. we are going to negotiate both pieces of legislation as a package. the second point i would like to stress is that we are going to do our best in order to ensure that the new legislation – the new post-lisbon legislation on data protection – will be taken into account in terms of all the agreements and proposals that have some relevance to this data protection issue. i think that everybody here understands that this is a major issue, because it refers to human rights; it refers to the basic principles set out in the treaties which, in one way or another, have to guide our decisions. i know that an impasse has been reached. we would like to overcome it. i would like to say that the commission is here and that it is really very willing to cooperate in order to overcome the difficulties both with the council and with parliament. of course, we will welcome any initiatives by the irish presidency if it, on behalf of the council, of course, would like to overcome the impasse.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr marek józef gróbarczyk, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the establishment of a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the exploitation of that stock (com (2011) 0470 - c7-0220/2011 - 2011/0206 (cod)) (a7-0239/2012) - the report by mr pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1288/2009 on the establishment of a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the exploitation of that stock (com (2011) 0470 - c7-0220/2011 - c7-0220/2012 - c7-015/2012 - c7-0220/2011 - c7-0220/2011 - c7-0241/2012 - c7-0220/2011 - c7-0220/2011 - c7-0231/2012 - c7-0241/2012 - c7-023220/2011 - c7-02424/01 (cod)) (com (2011) 024240) - the report by mr pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the amendment of council regulation (ec) regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for juveniles of young marine organisms and repealing council regulation (com (2011) 0282828288292929292929/04) - c7 - c7-08-0292929292929292929 - c7/2012 - c7-024 - c7-024/06-02929292929292929 -
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i want to extol the work of the rapporteurs. i share most of the concerns and suggestions expressed in their reports. i also commend the work of commissioner damannakis, who has stood by the committee throughout its work. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in this area. the report is being discussed at a crucial moment, because we are now shaping the common fisheries policy which will lay the foundations of fisheries for the next ten years. it is necessary to give special attention to small-scale fishing and its management, both in the context of the common fisheries policy and in terms of adequate funding from the new maritime and fisheries fund. small-scale fishing accounts for 80% of the fishing fleet in the european union. the traditional fisheries sector, because of its structural weaknesses, is more exposed to external shocks. the economic crisis, the increase in oil prices, market failures and bottlenecks in the supply of the product are some of the problems affecting the sector and need to be addressed by best practices. the rapporteur's proposals are sufficiently positive. the most important problem, however, as highlighted by the industry, is that of overfishing of stocks. 80% of the mediterranean fish stocks are overfished without adequate recovery, and the european regulation on fisheries in the mediterranean is violated every day. i think the issue of monitoring the application and compliance of member states with existing legislation is a key one. the future of fisheries in europe lies in coastal fishing activities which are sustainable, have a low impact on the marine environment and are a driver of growth and jobs in europe. the small-scale fisheries sector has enormous advantages which must be exploited.
mr president, i would first like to refer to the issue of the external dimension in ms lövin’s report. i am very sad at what is happening in parliament concerning this issue. the report was adopted in committee with 24 votes in favour and 1 against. nevertheless, i am afraid that the ppe group has decided that no other political group should be given reports of this kind. i cannot otherwise understand why, in order to delete three lines of this report, it is tabling an alternative report instead of just asking for a split vote. mr mato adrover is a good chair of the committee on fisheries, and i would ask him to have a rethink, because a chair cannot go against a 24-1 majority in his committee. on the issue of shark finning, i am confident that tomorrow a great majority within this parliament will vote in favour of sharks being landed with their fins naturally attached. we will close the loopholes in the legislation. i am confident that the majority in parliament tomorrow will honestly ban shark finning across the eu.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank president caldeira for presenting the 2011 annual report of the court of auditors. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, the pressure on public finances is now even greater and therefore the efficient use of public money is more important than ever. according to the court's report, the combined error rate for regional policy in transport, energy, employment and social affairs decreased significantly compared to 2010 from 7,7% to 5,1%. we must ensure that european union money is spent more efficiently, which does not require spending cuts, but better control. the national authorities must commit themselves to better managing eu funds, since according to the court of auditors more than 60% of the errors found in the implementation of regional policy could have been detected by the member states if the appropriate checks had been carried out.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the doha climate change conference because it recognises that climate change is an urgent and irreversible threat to human societies and the planet, it proposes a legally binding global agreement based on the principle of 'shared but differentiated responsibilities' and it recognises that the scientific evidence leaves little room for delay. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east. the doha conference, however, must not refer the matter to the next international conference as is the custom, it must record commitments with a specific timetable for reducing emissions and not be limited to vague policies on the need to reduce them. after all, ecology and economics can coexist. let's not give the winner an extension of rights for some catastrophe.
in writing. the kke voted against the report enlargement: eu policies, criteria and strategic interests (a7 0274/2012) because it dangerously reinforces the reactionary character and aggressiveness of the eu against the peoples of its member states, the acceding states, but also the states of the wider region. the eu claims to impose its own imperialist 'law' on international relations and cross-border disputes. international disputes will be turned into bilateral disputes under the auspices of the eu, which will undertake to resolve them in its own interests. the eu should intervene to all parties to disputes ..... to resort to the international court of justice or to a binding arbitration mechanism ... by asking the commission and the council to set up an arbitration mechanism aimed at resolving bilateral and multilateral disputes. the accession process is used by the eu to enforce the eu strategy europe 2020 in order to serve the interests of the monopolies. the eu 'transforms the political, socioeconomic and cultural data of the countries' that wish to join the eu by funding mechanisms of the bourgeois state, ngos and the labour aristocracy of the trade unions to manipulate the labour movement.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs coppa's report because it confirms the european parliament's commitment to enlargement policy and introduces innovative approaches to improve it. the new realities, such as the economic crisis and global challenges, call for a new approach to enlargement.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs and security has called for the eu to take action to prevent the use of force by the palestinian authority against palestinian civilians. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the middle east, and the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the middle east. it says nothing about israel's murderous bombing of palestinian civilians. it is not asking for an end to the criminal orgy of the israeli occupation forces. instead, it defends israel's "right to protect its population", but calls for it to "act in a proportionate manner". so he defends israel's crimes, as long as they are "proportional"! we support the struggle of the palestinian people against the israeli occupation, for an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the lifting of all blockades of palestinians in the west bank and the gaza strip. the immediate release of all palestinian and other political prisoners in israeli prisons. the withdrawal of the israeli army from all the territories occupied in 1967. we demand that the greek government immediately cancel its military cooperation with israel. shut down the soda base now.
in writing. the decision to call a ceasefire in the gaza strip last night is the first step towards de-escalating the hostilities. in this resolution, parliament reiterates its firm position on a two-state solution, the state of israel and an independent, democratic and viable state of palestine coexisting in peace and security. i voted in favour of this resolution which recognises that the long-running conflict which is continually taking the lives of civilians and children cannot be resolved by complaints and appeals. the whole international community and the eu, which has a special interest in the security and peaceful coexistence of the peoples of the region, should play a more active political role in efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. it is also important to note that the situation in syria is not improving and that a reversal of the situation in the whole region is a threat to international peace and security.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the common security and defence policy (csdp) because it signifies the strengthening of the reactionary characteristics and the expansion of the imperialist wars of the eu throughout the world, being based on the new strategic doctrine of nato. the report leaves the community institutions because they have not made full use of the full range of eu military means. the eu-us-nato imperialist war in libya is being exploited to promote the 'concentration and sharing' of arms for even more murderous operations against the people. the report calls for an increase in military operations and their financing by the stability and development funds, the creation of a permanent eu army general staff, the immediate use of euro-army units (battlegroups) and the upgrading of the european defence agency. it also called for the acceleration of enhanced military cooperation (the baimar initiative), interventions by 'alliances of interest' and joint armaments programmes leading to the centralisation of the defence industry. the eu is stepping up its intervention in syria and stepping up israel's attacks against the palestinian people - a bridgehead for imperialist plans to intervene in iran to control the resources and exploit the people. the eu is an imperialist alliance of monopolies and an enemy of the people in its member states and throughout the world.
in writing. the report fully confirms the positions of the kke, which warned that the clauses of solidarity and mutual defence in the anti-people lisbon treaty deepen the militarisation and reactionary characteristics of the eu and strengthen the mechanisms for shielding the dictatorship of the monopolies. the clauses promote eu military and political interventions in member states under the pretext of 'terrorism', 'natural or man-made disasters', 'cyber attacks' or even 'pandemics' or 'energy shortages'. the report calls the actions and mobilizations of the popular movement a 'threat to democratic institutions'. the report calls for the eu and its member states to commit themselves to a 'all-out' response in close cooperation with nato, and calls for the eu to adopt the new strategic approach of nato, so that together the eu and nato act as the world's policeman and terrorist of the people. the report calls for a 'permanent operational headquarters' and a 'permanent eu crisis management response system', 'crisis management readiness exercises' and the deployment of military capabilities and 'rapid reaction forces'. the kke votes against this reactionary and anti-people report and thus contributes to strengthening the popular alliance and the anti-monopoly struggle of the working class and its allies for secession from the eu and for popular power.
in writing. the role of small-scale fisheries is very important. i voted in favour of mr ferreira's report because i believe that small-scale fishing needs to be given special attention and management, both in the context of the common fisheries policy and in terms of adequate funding from the new emff.
mr president, i am among those who oppose the ratification of this agreement because it is a free trade agreement between the european union and the two countries which will do nothing but further strengthen the position of the west european monopolies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and let no one in this chamber tell me that there is any step in the european union's foreign policy that is not being taken primarily to serve the interests of the union, the interests of multinational capital, the interests of those who have caused the crisis in europe and are now trying to export it to these latin american countries. it will cause enormous problems in those countries. it is precisely because we read garcía márquez, mr salafranca, that we are opposed to this agreement which will lead to the exploitation of the colombian people. and in any case, because so much has been said, i would like to stress that it is not possible for the farc, which represents a very large part of the colombian people, to be included in the european union's list of terrorists and no one is interested in being removed from that list. the farc must be removed from the terrorist list.
mr president, greece is entering its sixth year of recession. 2013 is predicted to be, by analogy, the equivalent of 1942, in world war ii. today, citizens are lining up in lines for food. many children faint in schools because of lack of adequate food, and over 500,000 children are malnourished in greece. winter has arrived, and most residents cannot afford heating oil, so they live without heating. unemployment among young people aged 18 to 35 is over 55%. greece is experiencing nightmares that we all thought were in the past. my country has recently taken the necessary decisions to get back on its feet. in the name of solidarity, the european union is called upon to do its duty, understanding that behind the figures are people who have seen their lives radically changed. i would therefore ask that a programme be set up within the framework of the structural funds, and more specifically the social fund, to deal with hunger among the citizens who are suffering.
mr president, failure was avoided in doha but it is nevertheless true that, while climate negotiations are progressing, the speed of progress is not such as to allow us to hope for a climate agreement by 2015. we have no time to lose and, as the world bank report has told us, a 4°c warmer world is not only a threatening prospect, but is closing in on us very fast. the european parliament has to push more actively for progress in negotiations, not only with a resolution before next december’s climate change conference – cop 19 – in poland but in the intermediate meetings taking place in bonn and elsewhere. i call also on european citizens to speak up for climate action and progress in negotiations. if it is not an urgent social demand, it will not happen.
madam president, in the case of microbial resistance to antibiotics, which comes from their misuse, we are as weak as the weakest link. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's action in the field of drugs. we have voted unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that we must preserve the effectiveness of the antibiotics we have because it is difficult to develop new ones. at the same time, we must focus on direct funding of research to develop new antibiotics because the incentives to create new antibiotics that we use as little as possible are obviously not sufficient. finally, the increasing number of hospital cases and their considerable cost are a reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the costs of abuse, both direct and indirect, are far too high.
madam president, the aim of the eu patent system is to further strengthen the monopoly groups in the european union's capitalist single market and, of course, in world markets by cheaper and more efficient control of intellectual property. this will increase the concentration of patents in the hands of economically powerful groups and will strengthen the monopoly of knowledge, as demanded by the most powerful multinationals in the european union. it will make it even more difficult for workers to access products and services in critical sectors such as health, medicine, energy, food, etc., which will be subject to even greater capitalist speculation. the system will establish a new patent court system based on a collection of even more reactionary legal provisions that take precedence over national law. this circumvents a number of limitations on the scope of patents currently provided for by national law. but then public social goods and scientific achievements will increasingly be commodified and inaccessible.
the debate is closed. the vote on the three reports on the european patent will take place today, tuesday 11 december, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) ) written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. although the most comprehensive form of eu cooperation is in the area of the common market, there are still many obstacles to its full implementation. the digital revolution is one of them, as new forms of trade require additional regulation and reforms in order for both businesses and consumers to benefit from the new digital opportunities. it is characteristic that the internet industry today is the most productive in western economies and even in a turbulent economic period it is constantly creating new jobs. but while in some economies, such as the us, the market represents 8% of gdp, europe has not yet fully developed and exploited this sector. the main reason is the fragmentation of the 27 national laws governing this market, which to some extent limits its further development. the present report, which i voted in favour of, attempts to identify the actions necessary to harmonize national policies and to unlock the potential and investment in the digital sector, an approach which greece should also take seriously in its efforts to recover its economy.
in writing. − europe faces today times of big challenges. the economic crisis is severely affecting our economy, our countries, our societies, our families. we also live in a time of big and unprecedented social, economic and technological developments. the so-called digital revolution has modified considerably our lives in several aspects. i voted in favour of this report because it clearly recognises that the completion of the digital single market will offer, amongst other things, possibilities for economic growth, the creation of employment, consumer opportunities, variety of products, and affordable prices to the citizens of the european union.
in writing. just yesterday, monday, the release of €750 million from the european investment bank to greece was announced. this money, together with some 700 million in loans to smes until 2015, will provide the liquidity needed by 99% of smes and enable healthy businesses to continue operating while preserving or creating new jobs. as the biggest problem facing smes at the moment is access to capital, this report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on the importance of releasing funds from both the etf and the european investment fund in order to support the operation of smes in a way that will, however, push them towards a more productive model. for greece, these initiatives are crucial and certainly in this difficult period they should be fully exploited.
in writing. − eu smes account for 75% of jobs in the private sector and, over the past five years, have contributed to the creation of around 80% of all new jobs. surprisingly enough, only 25% of smes operate beyond the national borders of the member state of their establishment and as few as 13% are active in markets outside the eu through exports. the number of smes involved in foreign direct investment is also limited. i voted in favour of this report because it understands that the eu can gain from supporting smes which can in turn provide the so-called needed growth in the hard times the eu is facing now. the report addresses key issues for smes such as access to information, access to capital, and a range of services that can be provided by the european union in assisting smes’ growth and prosperity.
in writing. the european maritime safety agency was launched immediately after the polluting sinking of the oil tanker erika, with the aim of ensuring safety and protection of the sea and preventing marine pollution. the successful operation of the agency to date suggests that its remit should be extended to include the prevention and response to environmental disasters such as oil spills. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. moreover, the foreseeable important role of the seafo in improving the training of seafarers with the long-term objective of increasing employment in the shipping sector and the exchange of best practices in the field of education and training of seafarers are elements favourable to supporting one of the strongest sectors in greece where the national economy has a comparative advantage.
in writing. the provision of a single patent protection regime, although the product of a long-standing effort in the eu, has not yet been fully achieved, although it is recognised by all member states that it can play a crucial role in the eu's economic growth and competitiveness. the economic impact of not completing it means that the validation of a european patent is now 13 times more expensive than the corresponding validation in the united states and 11 times more expensive than the corresponding validation in japan. this financial burden affects first and foremost small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the backbone of the european economy (99%) and of the greek economy. with this report, which i supported, the european parliament is putting forward proposals to overcome the obstacles to the establishment of a single patent protection regime in the eu by giving a boost to a globalised environment and more opportunities to european innovative ideas and patents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there is a need of an efficient patent system in europe that can make a major contribution to achieving growth through innovation. european businesses, in particular smes, need such tools to face the current economic crisis and remain globally competitive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the growing threat of microbial resistance. without a doubt, antibiotics are essential in the treatment of many microbial infections in humans and animals. however, their unwise and excessive use in medicine and veterinary medicine has led to numerous negative consequences, such as the colonization of hospital environments with antibiotic-resistant microbes and thus an increase in hospital infections, the detection of antibiotic residues in food, and soil and water pollution. if we want to continue to use antibiotics as the main treatment for bacterial infections in both humans and animals, a new policy is needed with the following key objectives: - the correct and prudent use of antibiotics in both humans and animals on prescription only basis; - the emphasis on the prevention of microbial infections and their spread; - the development of alternative treatment methods; - the careful information and awareness-raising not only of patients but also of professionals in the field; - the control of infections and the use of antibiotics in livestock; - the prohibition of the illegal sale of antibiotics via the internet; and - the monitoring and surveillance of medicines intended for human and veterinary use.
mr president, mr commissioner, after extremely difficult and complex negotiations with the council, both in the conciliation committee and in the trialogue of 29 november, the european union now has a budget for 2013; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the declaration signed by the three presidents makes us cautiously optimistic, although this optimism will have to be demonstrated in practice. the european parliament has maintained a responsible attitude from the start of the negotiations, stressing the need to respect the european union's commitments to its citizens. however, we cannot hide our concern that the agreed level of payment appropriations for 2013 may be insufficient to cover the actual payment needs for the following year. the european parliament therefore makes clear that its positive vote on the 2013 budget is inextricably linked to the joint statements at the highest political level of the three institutions on the financing of the outstanding payments of eur 2,9 billion for 2012. we, as the european parliament, will monitor closely the implementation of the budget at all levels so that, if additional resources are needed, the member states can provide them. it is imperative, mr president, that the european union be able to pay its bills in order to maintain its credibility and solvency.
mr president, the monopoly business groups that have been established and dominate air transport in the european union are leading the way in inflating passenger and freight fares, reducing the frequency of air services, in mass layoffs, in intensifying work and in drastically reducing the wages of airline crews and ground staff, and in disrupting industrial relations, thus degrading air services as a whole. in greece, the business group that has a monopoly on the market, after the sale of olympiacos, abolished its ground services division and transferred all its staff, 850 people, to goldair handling, the largest company in the sector today, cutting wages, mass layoffs and intensifying work. the workers are fighting against this anti-people policy which erodes workers' rights and gains, makes air transport too expensive for the people, degrades the quality of services and endangers air transport safety. in the anti-people policy of the european union and governments, workers are proposing their own solution for modern, cheap air transport for the people, with full rights for workers in the industry and environmental protection.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, commissioner, we are here today to discuss whether we should give the green light to the introduction of a financial transaction tax in the enhanced cooperation procedure. and i would first of all like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the constructive cooperation which has enabled this report to be completed in such a short time, so that we are ready with tomorrow's vote to send the european council, which meets the day after tomorrow, a strong message of consistency and coherence, that the european parliament, which represents the citizens of the union, does not delay or postpone crucial and difficult decisions for the future; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european citizens, the european taxpayers, who have borne the brunt of this crisis in one way or another - because let us not forget that it was their own surpluses that averted the complete collapse of the financial sector five years ago and that they are basically paying today the heavy costs of fiscal adjustment and of aid to countries in economic difficulties - are the ones who have to bear the brunt of this crisis. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial services sector. many people ask: is now the right time to introduce this tax? given the difficulties facing the banking sector, will this tax not create more problems? will its introduction under the enhanced cooperation procedure create problems for the internal market? will it not lead to job losses? i'm not sure. let 's take them in order: the time is ripe for the introduction of the financial transaction tax, because the socialisation of the costs of the crisis we have experienced in the past has another dimension which we often underestimate, but which, if we do not see it and deal with it in time, will become dominant and irreversible; the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on financial institutions in general and indefinitely, as is often and deliberately said. the financial transaction tax, with its extremely low rate on both stocks and bonds and derivatives, with the exception of all transactions in the primary market, will have costs where we want it to have costs; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. and yes, we would certainly prefer to introduce the tax in all the member states of the european union, but, insofar as this is not possible, the solution is not inaction, nor the hostage-taking of the many of the few. and yes, the internal market certainly has nothing to lose but to gain from moving to a first level of harmonisation of indirect taxation in the financial sector from the totally fragmented landscape that exists today. as regards the argument that jobs are being lost in a europe of 25 million unemployed because of the crisis, which is largely caused by the financial sector, to speak of a risk of unemployment because of taxation is, as the ancient greeks would have said, a 'hybride', that is to say, an insult. unless we mean the golden boys of the industry who amass mythical fortunes by betting or designing intricate and complex financial products, like the ones that brought the financial industry to the brink of collapse. if we are talking about these brilliant minds, which are being identified and absorbed by the financial sector before they have even had time to graduate from universities, these brilliant minds, dear colleagues, we must try by all means to keep them in the service of the real economy, of innovation, because only in this way will we ensure europe's competitiveness in today's globalised environment.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your strong support for a common system of ftt. this is an important signal for all member states: those participating, those considering joining the group, and those others who prefer not to participate. i have no doubt that the european parliament will give its consent tomorrow to enhanced cooperation in the area of ftt. i would like to take this opportunity to urge the council to work just as swiftly in authorising enhanced cooperation early next year. for our part, we are already working on a proposal for the ftt to be implemented under enhanced cooperation so that a new discussion on the substance can be started as soon as possible. i will, of course, keep the european parliament informed of any progress on this matter. as your rapporteur was already told, we are prepared to continue our dialogue with your economic and monetary affairs committee on possible changes to be made to our initial proposal. many of you spoke today about the substance of the proposal, which will come soon. i have to say that we do not foresee any surprises in the forthcoming proposal, because the participating member states requested that we present the substantive proposal based on our initial proposal. therefore, you will not encounter many differences between the proposals. of course, we need to adapt the proposal to the limited scope of the participating member states and take into account the debates that were held when the initial proposal was discussed. what we need now is to speed up the procedural steps so that these member states can start discussing the substance. this is crucial if the ftt is to be implemented in due course, as requested by the eu heads of state and government.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i too would like to thank you for this interesting and useful debate. it is clear that the financial transaction tax and the wider issue of taxation of the financial sector will continue to be on parliament's list of priorities and will continue to concern us. i would just like to add one point to what the commissioner said. as regards the commission's proposal, i would like to point out that the treaty provides for the precise steps to be taken to implement enhanced cooperation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has nevertheless, on an informal level, graciously presented a number of details of the proposal which it will follow. as i said in my initial speech, the council has begun intensive discussions and will certainly continue them on the commission's proposal to approve the establishment of enhanced cooperation. i am particularly grateful to parliament for its contribution to this matter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i too would like to thank commissioner šemeta, mr luka luka, the representative of the cypriot presidency, all my colleagues and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their speeches and comments. i would just like to say a word to those who are not involved in the implementation of the tax but are worried that they will suffer the consequences or that the internal market will be affected. i would remind you that they are the same people who, when we were discussing the introduction of a financial transaction tax at european level, at the level of the 27 member states, said that this tax was not feasible and that it would lead to the relocation of either financial institutions or financial transactions. so now it seems that the implementation will be so successful and so difficult to avoid that institutions outside the tax area will be burdened. i would like to remind my colleagues in the united kingdom in particular that 40% of the revenue from stamp duty comes from non-british institutions. it is therefore totally absurd to deny others the application of what they themselves apply. i would like to express my confidence that the european parliament will give its green light tomorrow to the implementation of the financial transaction tax by the eleven first member states on the basis of the enhanced cooperation rule.
member of the commission. − mr president, in my introductory speech i was very clear that i was not happy with the level of enforcement. i did not evade that issue. indeed, i informed parliament of the measures which i think have to be implemented. to be fair, there have been infringement proceedings – 18, of which three remain open – and 14 communications to member states, of which two remain open. but i share the view of those who say that if we are not even able to enforce the rules we have today, how much more difficult it will be to enforce new legislation. i was very clear in my presentation that the commission’s report does not propose new legislation, but better enforcement. i shall promise only that which i think the commission can deliver and i can deliver. i have indicated which areas will be strengthened as regards enforcement. first of all, there will be an implementing decision next year to harmonise the member states’ reporting on controls, because we do not even have harmonisation of the controls which are carried out by the member states, which are primarily responsible for the enforcement of the 2005 regulation. there will also be a conference in dublin next year on the specific issue of rules on animal welfare and transport, and in 2013 we shall be launching a new series of study visits. these will involve not only the member states but also an auditor from the food and veterinary office (fvo), who will act as guide and accompany four experts from member states on certain traditional trade routes on visits to another member state. we will also improve the control of animal transport by making better use of navigation systems. there have been some legal problems in this respect which we will try to solve, but since we have these methods of modern technology — which do not cost much — i think we should use them. we are not using them enough because of a lack of harmonisation and the lack of will, on the part of those who are involved in the transport of animals, to use these navigation systems. i shall consider with the legal services whether there is any possibility of introducing a mandatory requirement for their use. however, my parting shot today will be this. improving enforcement should not be the final step, but the beginning of an approach which could be both reasonable and ambitious. because if everything fails, and enforcement does not work — though i think it will — we will have to reconsider our position.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 december, at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on mediation in civil and commercial matters by mr klaus heiner lehne, deputy editor, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000169/2012 - b7-0370/2012)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, ‘justice delayed is justice denied’, and we have a very big backlog in many of our member states. mediation is one possible means of getting rid of the backlog, especially in smaller cases where you do not necessarily go through a lengthy court procedure but, of course, access to justice is a fundamental right. i do not believe that mediation can simply replace a court procedure; it is an alternative, but in order to become a real alternative it has to be known and, as has been rightly said, it has to become a cultural choice. for this we need time. we also need to see how article 9 is being implemented. article 9 of the directive requires member states to encourage, by any means they consider appropriate, the availability to the general public of the relevant information. there we have to go in the same direction. there is also something for the commission in the text — article 10 requires us to make publicly available information on the competent courts or authorities communicated by the member states. the member states and the commission need to work hand in hand to make sure more information about mediation is available. of course, in order to be successful this approach will involve training for mediators and also for lawyers, to ensure that they do not necessarily see mediation as opposed to their professional interests. that brings me back to the need for a change of culture. this is also something which will not happen overnight. so we have to persevere, to ‘go for it’. that is why i will issue this communication in 2013 on the basis of the information we have received from the member states. publishing this information, discussing the subject again and analysing the various problems in the different member states should generate the necessary peer pressure to gradually make it clear that mediation is a valid alternative, particularly in the case of small claims, neighbourhood disputes, labour disputes and family disputes, so that people understand that this can solve their problems. to that end, of course, we have to work altogether, and i thank parliament for its very constructive position.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs monika flašíková beňová, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2010-2011) (2011/2069 (ini)) (a7-0383/2012)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say to mr cofferati that there is a city of human rights. graz considers itself to have become the city of human rights out of the european city of culture. it is very interesting to see how they have developed their institutions from being the european city of culture into the european city of human rights. it is not an official title, but it is a title which they care about and one which they are developing in their policy in the city. it is very interesting to look at that and to take from it good ideas about how human rights can function at a local level. i just wanted to say this as a reaction to the proposal which the honourable member made. the debate – and i do not want to enter into a party-political discussion – made it very obvious that there is a kind of frustration with the way the charter is applied. it is not applied horizontally and not to everything, and it is not applicable in situations which have no link with eu law. that can be very frustrating, and i agree with those who have underlined their frustrations. but the charter does not replace national constitutions and national systems of fundamental rights, it complements them. i believe we have at our disposal a wonderful instrument, and we have to try – even if it cannot always be applied perfectly – to apply it as much as we can and to extend its scope of application. i believe this is vital for the credibility of the legally-binding charter and for the rule of law in the european legal order. we also have the convention on human rights, which is not a european union instrument but an instrument of the council of europe. as you know, the treaty foresees the european union becoming a party to the convention on human rights. it is important that we make rapid progress towards a speedy accession. we have made it on a technical level, and it has resulted in the elaboration of a draft accession agreement. there has been very intensive work done on this. the amendments which have been brought forward are limited and do not jeopardise the overall architecture and balance of the draft accession agreement. i am convinced that, with political will and determination, it will be possible to solve the outstanding issues rapidly. i make an appeal to all member states to help us to go in this direction, because this will be an important complement to the charter of fundamental rights. to all those who are not satisfied with the limited scope of application of the charter, i would say that we should be patient and go step by step. look at the united states. it needed a hundred years and a very bloody civil war before the bill of rights was applied not only at federal level but also to individual states. this does not mean that we will need a civil war and a hundred years to get there, but we should also have the courage to go step by step and address future priorities. as i have already underlined, i believe that very slowly we are installing this culture of fundamental rights in all our institutions. it will come step by step – more quickly here, more slowly there – but we have always to control how it works. i also know – because we have already had this debate in this chamber – how frustrated many of you are that the only real strong instrument when something goes wrong is article 7 of the treaty of the european union, which is the atomic bomb. instead of going to the root of the problem in order to solve it, it is very difficult to do it in another way. in his state of the union speech the president of the commission addressed the threats to the legal and democratic fabric in some of our european states in recent months and expressed his worries. at the same time he also underlined the limits of our institutional arrangements. believe me, i would also prefer, instead of having only soft power or the nuclear option, to have something in between. those who have underlined the copenhagen deal dilemma are absolutely right, because we do have instruments before a state becomes a member of the union, but once a state is a member of the union, we no longer have these instruments. this is why i have taken the first step in developing such an instrument. this is the justice scoreboard, which is one of the tools better to help address the copenhagen dilemma but, mrs sargentini, it is only the first step. you should be very happy that i managed to put that in the system. as a first step, it will be linked to economic and social development – for civil law application – but i hope that later we will take a second and a third step and that it will become a justice scoreboard for all the applications of our justice systems. this is one of the ways in which i am trying to take a step-by-step approach in order to create, with everybody’s agreement, an instrument which might help us cope with the deficiencies of the institutional possibilities of applying the charter to its full extent. i would like to thank all those members of parliament who, for many years – for some i would say decades – have been working and fighting in order to make fundamental rights a reality, and a reality – as has been said – not only in a text but for human beings, for our citizens. so let us unite our forces and go in this direction, because i think it is an important direction. unfortunately – and i say this very clearly to mr moraes – we take a lot of very important new initiatives in this house, but until citizens understand that we have done that, we need a lot of time and a lot of energy. i hope that in the european year of citizens – the year in which we should go out in order to explain to our citizens, also about our instruments and our initiatives – that this will be of help. i hope we will all go out in order to explain what europe is about. it is about the rights of the individual. i do not think that we should act as though this europe was a space without rights. fortunately this is not the case. it is not perfect, but it is perfectible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 december, at 12.30 p.m.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report adopting the draft amending budget (dab) 6/ 2012, as adopted by the council. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. although parliament accepted the financing of eur 6,1 billion decided by the council, i cannot hide my concern that the shortfalls in payments for 2012 (both the eur 2,9 billion remaining from ipa 6/2012 and the payment requests received by the commission by the end of the year) will be carried over to the 2013 budget and the level of payment appropriations for 2013 will prove insufficient to cover all payment requests in the following year. it is therefore vital to respect the declaration by the three presidents of the institutions that at least eur 2,9 billion will be financed through a corrective budget at the beginning of 2013, and to ensure that member states provide 'fresh money' for this purpose without any reallocation at the expense of other community programmes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy to support 512 redundancies in 10 enterprises active in the manufacture of other transport equipment. the continuing economic and financial crisis in italy has further highlighted the added value of the egf as a tool for the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. the support provided is also a practical expression of the european union's solidarity. the italian government is making efforts to rationalize the budget and to cut expenditure drastically. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the national budget's fiscal consolidation efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for sweden to support the redundancies at saab automobile ab and its subsidiary saab automobile powertrain ab. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation are further highlighting the added value of the egf as a tool for the social policy of the european union. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of sweden is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to maintain it during the coming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain to support 500 redundancies in 423 enterprises active in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in the basque country. the continuing economic crisis in spain has further highlighted the added value of the egf as a tool for the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of the national and regional budgets of spain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark to support 720 redundant workers in flextronics international denmark a/s, a company providing design and manufacturing services to original equipment manufacturers. it is regrettable that this company has decided to move a significant part of its operations outside the eu. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation are further highlighting the added value of the egf as a tool for the social policy of the european union. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of denmark is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for romania to support 1416 redundancies at sc nokia romania srl and one of its suppliers operating in the mobile telephony sector. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation are further highlighting the added value of the egf as a tool for the social policy of the european union. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. the support provided is also a practical expression of the european union's solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for austria to support 1,050 redundant workers in 105 enterprises active in the social welfare sector without providing accommodation. it is clear that the negative consequences of the economic and financial crisis have further highlighted the added value of the egf as a tool of the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of austria is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for finland to support 1,000 people made redundant in the mobile phone company nokia plc (salo). it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as a social policy tool of the european union. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of finland is the best illustration that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges, but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of this fund and demonstrates the need to continue it during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which contains some important proposals for improving statistics in the eu. taking the independence of the statisticians as a given and non-negotiable, member states should formally commit themselves to the strict application of the code of good practice for european statistics. eurostat's role in the new european statistical programme is clear and remains a primary one, but as it also draws information from the national statistical institutes, the commission should assist the statistical institutes of member states which face difficulties or are unable to produce high quality statistics due to methodological obstacles or limited resources in order to ensure that the data they provide are reliable and as accurate as possible. at the same time, in the area of transparency and accountability, eurostat should ensure that citizens can have full access to its data through easy and user-friendly procedures.
in writing. the kke voted against the european parliament's recommendation to introduce a financial transaction tax. at a time when wages and pensions are being cut to an unprecedented degree, workers' incomes are being taxed wildly and capital is being taxed less, the political staff of capital in the eu and its member states are engaged in a blatant deception of the people, presenting such a tax as 'equal sharing of the burdens of the crisis'. and this, they know very well, is not a tax on the profits of financial capital, but another indirect tax on transactions, which banking capital will pass on to the workers. the revenue from this tax will go directly to the eu funds to re-finance business groups with hot money from the eu budget. the committee on budgets has therefore rejected the kke's proposal for a 45% tax on capital. the profits of banking capital, of monopolies as a whole, for the eu and for the city governments are "sacred", inviolable and of course tax-free. it is once again proved that there is no popular way out of the capitalist crisis without a clash with the domination of the monopolies, the politics of the eu and its very structure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i strongly support the protection of animals and their treatment throughout the world. there is a strong commitment in this report in the development of an objective and reliable system for evaluating the welfare of animals during transport, and consideration of a legislative initiative aimed at limiting the transport time of animals.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we are talking about human rights. human rights is a moving and beautiful title of a great book with many chapters, which continues to be written every day. this book is not finished. but i fear that we are talking more than we are talking, because on the one hand there are no adequate mechanisms for the defence of human rights, and on the other hand the adverse economic and social conditions of the last four years throughout europe and the world have made it more difficult than ever to apply human rights rules and have led us to a policy of global austerity and austerity, which in turn, indirectly or immediately, has created human rights violations by depressing wages, reducing social benefits and state funds, driving large groups into poverty and social exclusion. poverty is easy to describe, but hard to live in. in 2012, the number of unemployed worldwide reached 200 million, an increase of 27 million. work is a human right that, in addition to providing a livelihood, also creates self-respect in people. the financial crisis disproportionately affects young people as new entrants to the labour market, with the result that they are the last to be hired and the first to be fired. it is particularly important to safeguard the rights of the most vulnerable groups in the population, such as children, women, the elderly, the disabled and those living in conditions of poverty and economic deprivation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
mr president, i would also like to welcome stavros lambarinidis to our debate today. a few days after the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that thousands of women around the world are subject to violence in their own homes, are daily exploited and discriminated against in the workplace, and are victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. it is totally unacceptable that even today women and young girls who are not involved in armed conflict are suffering the worst consequences of war, as rape is still used as a weapon and means of determining the outcome of wars. i would therefore like to thank in particular my colleagues donskis and tavares for the particular sensitivity they have shown to women's issues. it is remarkable that in this year's european parliament report on human rights in the world there are 23 paragraphs with references to women, which is a recognition of the problems they face but also of the important, central, i would say, role they play in every society. the european union and its member states must do even more to eliminate violence against women and take their rights seriously in their dialogue with third countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has an important instrument of pressure to improve the situation of women in these countries. it's our hope that he'll make the most of it.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, in his excellent report mr swoboda, referring to energy, points out that the european union must deal with the outstanding issues with russia, issues related to energy supplies to the member states of the european union. yesterday we had the opening of the south stream pipeline on the southern corridor. the pipeline is operated by russia as a supplier and bulgaria as a recipient country. the european union's energy commissioner was not present at the inauguration. it's definitely a message that we reject south stream. in this case, if the european union rejects south stream, it will have to put pressure on bulgaria to speed up the procedures for the construction of its interconnector with greece. it will be indirect pressure on russia to implement at least part of the third energy package.
mr president, i would like to add the following to what i have said: russia is a very important ally for europe; we can't ignore her now. we may say things, but we do not say what can be done in practice. the european parliament could take over the re-education of russian students so that they could come and do their internship here. so we have to use what we call soft powers, through issues of culture, through issues of education. to be re-educated here, to see the institutions, to understand. there has to be a careful approach, an openness, because it's not that they don't want to; a lot of times they just don't know.
mr. president, right now egypt is on fire. madam minister, mr commissioner, who are we trusting in egypt at this moment? mosri, amr musa, the salafists, the military? who do we trust ? if you look at the history of egypt, it was the military that in the transition period intervened and put some things in order. the world community must choose whoever it deems can bring about order. right now, the treasury department needs technical support. the country is in financial ruin. people are coming out into the streets. and this is not just an ideological issue, it's a survival issue. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report.
mr president, the vote against and the abstention of the member states of the european union from the proposal to the un general assembly to recognise palestine as a non-member observer state of the un is clear evidence of the imperialist nature of the policy and plans of the european union, the usa, nato and israel against the palestinians and the peoples of the wider region. israel is stepping up its aggression with threats to build three thousand homes for israeli settlers in the area between the west bank and east jerusalem in response to the recent un resolution. it is now imperative that the peoples express in practical terms their solidarity with the palestinian people for an independent, viable, sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital; to end israeli settlements in east jerusalem and all palestinian territories, including the golan heights and the sheba area in south lebanon; the withdrawal of the israeli occupation army and settlers from all occupied palestinian territories; the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all palestinians and the return of all refugees as recommended by the un.
mr. president, i would like to remind everyone that new settlements are not being built on new land, they are being built on land that had been agreed upon or was in the territorial swap since then with president clinton. so it's not something new and something illegal. i would also like to say to parliament that we should be sober about the political reaction of israel. the israeli move is intended to remind the palestinians that the dialogue has not stopped and must continue. i would even say to all of us that we had better deal with the hamas-fatah conflict and be concerned, despite the fact that israel did indeed react as it should have done, to send a message that the dialogue is still going on.
mr president, i understand that mr brok and some other gentlemen have lost their temper and are running away from the harsh reality of the daily lives of the palestinian people. the murderous attacks by israel and the genocide against the palestinian people are a fact. we have a clear position: in the middle east both peoples can survive as fully independent states. stop these demagogic crowns right here and now! (the president cut off the speaker)
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate this evening. albania is an important country in the region. we cooperate widely with albania in a range of areas and conduct extensive political dialogue. our relations are gaining in importance, reflecting the significant and growing role of albania in the region. it is fully involved, in particular, in regional initiatives such as the regional cooperation council and the south-east european cooperation process. furthermore, albania chaired the council of ministers of the council of europe during 2012. i would like to thank the parliament for its valuable contribution to this debate, and, in particular, extend my appreciation to the rapporteur, nikolaos chountis, for his valuable work. i think there is a very great deal on which the council and the parliament can agree. in its conclusions adopted last night, the council welcomed the progress made by albania to meet the 12 key priorities that were outlined in the commission’s opinion of 2010. dialogue between the government and the opposition has improved significantly, paving the way for the progress needed to fulfil the political criteria for membership of the european union. albania has met four of the key priorities and is well on the way to meeting two more. these cover, in particular, the areas of the functioning of the parliament, electoral reform and public administration reform. progress has also been achieved in other areas which remain priorities, for example: the lifting of immunities for high-level public officials and judges, and an increase in seizures of criminal assets. the council has taken note of the commission’s recommendation to grant candidate status, subject to completion of key measures in the areas of judicial and public administration reform, and revision of the parliamentary rules of procedure. with a view to deciding whether to grant candidate status, the commission has been asked to report as soon as the necessary progress has been achieved, while also taking into account further action taken by albania to fight corruption and organised crime. there are other areas where we need to see further efforts from albania. these include rule of law issues, strengthening the independence of the judiciary, as well as its efficiency and accountability, and the protection of minorities. these are all central to the country’s path towards the european union. allow me to close by referring to next year’s parliamentary elections. we all know that elections in albania have often been contested. the successful conduct of the elections in june next year will be essential for demonstrating the commitment of all of albania’s political parties to electoral reform. this will be a crucial test for the smooth functioning of the country’s democratic institutions. sustained political dialogue and continuing efforts in all the areas covered by the key priorities will remain critical to the reform process and to albania’s future progress towards the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr chountis, for his excellent report on albania. i welcome the report’s support for albania’s european perspective and the acknowledgement of the potential of the european integration process as a major driving force for reforms and cross-party political cooperation in the country. the report is largely in line with the assessment and recommendations made by the commission in its enlargement package, and it strikes the right balance between the recognition of the achievements made by albania and the emphasis on continuing the implementation of reforms in all areas under the 12 key priorities identified in the commission’s 2010 opinion on albania’s application for membership of the european union. let me turn to the 2012 commission progress report on albania. this year’s report reflects a new situation in the country which stems from the implementation of the november 2011 political agreement between government and opposition. this agreement marked the end of the political stalemate and paved the way for stronger cross-party cooperation which made a number of important reforms possible in the areas under the key priorities of the opinion. taking this progress into account, the commission recommended granting candidate country status to albania, subject to completion of key measures in the areas of judicial and public administration reform and the finalisation of the revision of the rules of procedure of parliament. we have been clear on what albania needs to do to continue progressing on its european integration path. unfortunately, the country’s political leaders have not always been able to consistently place european union integration at the top of their political agenda and have not always been willing to make the necessary political compromises that cross-party support for fundamental reforms evidently requires. the necessary conditions are still outstanding so we need to continue encouraging our albanian friends in government and opposition to focus on the european union integration process. beyond the key short-term measures i have just mentioned, albania faces many challenges, particularly in the area of the rule of law, which, as underlined in your resolution, is at the centre of the commission’s approach to enlargement. ownership of the reform process and political maturity are essential in this respect. albania will need to build on what it has already achieved and consolidate and sustain a constructive political dialogue. this is essential if it is to continue delivering on reforms. albania will also need to provide further evidence and demonstrate concrete results in fighting corruption, money laundering and organised crime. the successful conduct of parliamentary elections in june 2013 will be an essential element for albania’s european union integration perspective. we share your view on albania’s good neighbourly relations and constructive contribution to regional stability. these are essential elements of the european integration process. we need to send a strong message encouraging albania to continue with its constructive regional stance, emphasising to its political leaders the importance of clear messages promoting cooperation and good neighbourly relations. let me conclude by thanking you, honourable members, for your continued support, which is essential to the enlargement process in general and to albanian efforts. i am looking forward to the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament's report on albania's accession prospects is being discussed almost simultaneously with the council, which is also taking the decisions mentioned by the minister, but i think that the european parliament's report is important. the report was voted in favour by the committee on foreign affairs by all the political groups. and so i want to thank all my colleagues and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution and support. the report on albania's accession prospects once again underlines the fact that, since albania's accession to the european union is the wish of the albanian people, we must respect this wish and must create the incentive to tackle the problems facing this country: problems with democracy, the rule of law, corruption, minority and labour rights. in this sense, the question of integration is a matter for albanian society, not just for the albanian forces. progress has been made, but more still needs to be done. the report highlights some of these. the european union has a duty to help the people of albania, and i am sure that the european union will do so. these statements were made after the committee adopted the resolution and created tension and undermined the climate and good neighbourly relations in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are not justified by any expediency; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in this sense, the european parliament and the other european institutions should stand firmly and decisively in such views in order to demand that albania's good neighbourly relations with other countries be strengthened, not only to keep alive albania's accession prospects but for the security, stability and peace in the region.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the people. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr houdini, on his very balanced report. it is clear that the council will rather consider that albania does not meet the conditions, that is to say, it does not meet in particular the 12 criteria set out by the european commission for albania to be able to move forward and to have a european perspective. however, this can be a catalyst for a more stable policy in albania, for a consensus between the albanian political forces and, above all, for the regulation of certain outstanding issues, such as the corruption that still exists, organised crime, money laundering and corruption in the judiciary. there are also problems in human rights issues, especially in relation to property issues, since there are internationally recognized minorities, such as the greek minority. the european parliament has also expressed its concern at the situation in albania, which is suffering from a serious economic crisis, and has called on the commission to take action to help the country's economy. today an attempt was made to change that comment and it made things worse. the european union has a duty to ensure that the albanian people are not excluded from the european union, and that the albanian people are not excluded from the european union. it is obvious that the albanian prime minister made this move of a nationalist nature in anticipation of the council's negative decision for his country. he needs to be given a message that albania will not lose the game on the outside if it continues like this, but it has a good chance of losing it on the inside.
the council and the european parliament's resolution shall assess albania's accession process against the criteria of the maastricht, copenhagen and lisbon treaties, the four freedoms of capital, the europe 2020 strategy of the european union; the european union has been trying to impose a new economic policy on albania, which is based on the principle of the free movement of capital, and the economic reforms that are necessary to ensure the penetration of european monopolies in albania, the brutal exploitation of workers and of the resources of production - oil, gas and minerals - and at the same time the strengthening of the bourgeois political system, the repressive mechanisms for the manipulation of the workers' movement. the nationalist and chauvinist preachings and policies - the 'golden rule' - of the bourgeoisie are being exploited to exploit the peoples of the wider balkans. we express the radical opposition of the communist party of greece to albania's accession to the european union. the people are opposed to the integration of new states into the european union. the struggle for disengagement from the european union is inextricably linked to the overthrow of the power of the monopolies of popular power and economy, to the development of relations of friendship and cooperation between peoples on the basis of mutual benefit. (the speaker agrees to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer "blue card". it is clear that the albanian people's opinion is the dominant one in the choice they will make. but we all, as political parties, have a responsibility to stand up for albania and for other countries. the same reasons we have for opposing greece's accession to the european union are the same reasons we have for opposing albania.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am grateful to parliament for raising this important issue this evening. the council shares the concerns that many of you have about the seriousness of the situation in syria and in particular its impact on the civilian population. we continue to monitor developments as we have been doing since the beginning of the crisis, focusing in particular on the issue of humanitarian assistance to syrian nationals who are victims of the crisis. many of them have been obliged to leave their homes and are currently displaced in other parts of syria or across the border in neighbouring countries such as turkey, jordan, lebanon and iraq. this issue has been addressed both at political and technical level and some of these discussions have involved representatives of international organisations such as the unhcr and the iom which are the most active in syria. in october the council confirmed the continuing commitment of the european union and its member states to provide humanitarian assistance to the affected population, but it also emphasised the need for further funds and called for all donors to increase their contributions to the latest un appeals for funding humanitarian assistance and refugee assistance. the european union and its member states are together providing the largest contribution to the regional response plan for syrian refugees launched by the unhcr and other organisations in september. to date, this assistance has reached a total of about eur 222 million, amounting to 53% of the overall international response. the council has also been aware of the potential challenges to the member states of increasing migratory pressure from nationals fleeing from syria. the issue has been discussed by ministers on several occasions, and at the most recent meeting of the justice and home affairs council last week the council had the opportunity to hear a presentation from the united nations high commissioner for refugees setting out his latest assessment of the situation. while the overall numbers of syrian nationals who have fled to member states has so far remained relatively low, some member states have begun to see a noticeable increase in the number of asylum applications. this is a trend which is likely to continue. given that there are no signs that the internal crisis in syria is likely to be resolved in the near future, the council is also taking action to prepare for the medium- and long-term challenges which could result from a further increase in migratory pressure. in october the council endorsed a proposal from the commission to establish a regional protection programme. this programme is designed to cope with the specific situation in syria, drawing on the experiences of similar programmes elsewhere. it will help enhance the capabilities of the authorities and of the organisations dealing with international protection and refugee issues and will provide lasting solutions as regards the plight of those who have been forced to leave the country. plans for the establishment of a regional protection programme are under way, with these scheduled to become fully operational in spring 2013. the council is concerned both at the deterioration of the political situation in syria and at the effects that this is having on civilians. we will continue to do what we can to try to bring an end to the crisis, and to address the specific problems encountered by those fleeing from it. this must involve further humanitarian assistance as well as the establishment of an effective regional protection programme. we stand ready to take any further action that might be needed to cope with the problems of migratory pressures as and when developments in syria so require.
member of the commission. − madam president, this is indeed a very important debate. as you know, nearly half a million people have sought refuge in the neighbouring countries from the atrocities in syria. turkey, lebanon, jordan and iraq have made formidable efforts to give those people shelter and more people are likely to flee. the red crescent reports that some 2.5 million people are internally displaced. in addition to syrian refugees there are also a large number of people who used to live, or had sought refuge, in syria, such as palestinians and iraqis, and have now become displaced or been forced to flee. as the president of the council said, the eu’s response has been very strong from a humanitarian point of view. we have mobilised more than eur 230 million so far, which is being used to provide healthcare, food, shelter, water, sanitation, heating and registration to the refugees and support to the communities hosting them. we will continue to provide this support to the host communities as long as the crisis continues. normal funds are being, and will be, mobilised to address needs as they appear. regarding the question of a regional protection programme, the exact modalities, which have still to be decided, are being prepared with the relevant partners, such as unhcr. that will play an important role in the eu’s response. a regional protection programme is, as you know, a specific tool of long-term capacity building in the area of international protection that aims at institution-building as well as supporting sustainable solutions for refugees. a resettlement commitment, whereby eu member states undertake on a voluntary basis to offer resettlement places in their countries, accompanies each regional protection programme. the european refugee fund will provide co-financing for pledged resettlement cases. the current rules under the eu resettlement programme allow member states to choose to allocate a number of places under their planned pledging for the resettlement of refugees from a country in a region designated for a regional protection programme or for emergency resettlement. it is for each member state to decide individually whether they wish to make use of this possibility, but i called on member states at the last ga (general affairs) council to do their utmost to respond to this. the commission is urging member states to show generosity and solidarity. not very many syrian refugees have come to europe so far – around 16 000, which is not a very large number considering the huge number of people who have left the country. but nevertheless these people are asking for shelter in the european union, and that number could grow. we have taken action to prepare eu member states to deal with the consequences. these issues have been discussed in several meetings with ga ministers. we have also had meetings organised by the european asylum support office (easo) in recent months. this has allowed member states to exchange views on the goal of aligning as far as possible their policies in response to asylum requests from syrian nationals. eu member states have confirmed their intention to provide adequate protection, in particular by not returning syrian nationals staying in the eu to syria. there has been a wide consensus among member states that the majority of syrian applicants could be entitled to receive international protection, either as a refugee as defined in the geneva convention, or as a beneficiary of a subsidiary form of protection. this is confirmed in practice by the recognition rate for syrian nationals throughout the eu of approximately 92% in the second quarter of 2012. it is important for this to be standard in the european union. in order to prepare for the possibility of a rising influx, a constant monitoring exercise is being carried out by dg home affairs, including the different relevant agencies and entities – easo, frontex, europol, other commission departments, the member states of course, unhcr and other organisations in the area. this is an ongoing monitoring process; it has ensured that we have constant updates on the situation so that we can react very swiftly if the situation deteriorates to the point of placing additional pressure on our asylum system. easo has offered to stand by to be ready to provide assistance to member states facing particular pressure. we have also asked those potential member states to identify their needs and communicate them to easo. we have received in this connection a letter from cyprus as a pre-warning of potential crisis. at the request of the member states affected, up to eur 9.8 million will be available under the european refugee fund in 2013 to assist in addressing situations of particular pressure created by the sudden arrival of a number of persons who might be in need of international protection and thereby place exceptionally heavy and urgent demands on the reception facilities and asylum systems of the member states concerned. in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons into the eu, the commission is prepared to propose using the temporary protection directive mechanism where appropriate. this would be the last resort. the numbers fall far short of that at present, and we will not use the mechanism until it is really necessary. for the moment, while some countries are under pressure, they are able to deal with applications from syrians. a proposal to activate the temporary protection mechanism would, of course, have to be approved by member states. the commission is already active in providing help to syria’s neighbours in their efforts to cope with the refugees who have fled the in-fighting in that country. we will also continue to be vigilant regarding any possible influx of refugees into the eu, and stand ready to support and assist member states and the refugees through the relevant agencies and other forms of cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i thank the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner for informing us of the initiatives taken so far. the truth is that we are talking about the preparation of europe. but it's important to look at -- and we actually heard today in the introductory presentation what's been done so far -- what's been done so far and how we're continuing the effort because the crisis is ongoing, the flows are ongoing and of course even as we speak syrian citizens are still leaving syria. i would like to add to the figures provided by the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner that, according to the un high commissioner, every day there are 3,000 more syrians leaving the country, while 40% of the 500,000 people who have left syria so far are not in the camps, and it is a given that in the coming period, over time and with the heavy winter, we will have flows south and west of syria. i would like to make two main points: the first is that we must consider how we can support all the efforts in the region, how we can best support both the organizations there and the third neighbouring countries, such as turkey and lebanon and the other countries mentioned. and we must of course consider whether this effort is sufficient - we have heard that more funding is needed - and ensure that the money that has been given so far is used in the best possible way. we also need to map the pathways that they're developing. we have been reading in recent days that turkey is now preventing the flows. turkey is no longer accepting any more refugees from syria because it has no other options. we must see how the syrians move next and in what direction they continue their march. and the second very important issue is how do we continue our own strategy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's external borders. one of those countries is greece, which is already receiving flows from syria. the numbers aren't very big. from august to october there were about 600, as far as i know, and many of them say they don't want to apply for asylum, that they want to return once the crisis is over to their home country, where their livelihood is, their family. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but one country, or two or three, from the south, which are, because of their geographical position, in the front line, cannot respond on a european level. the european union must take the initiative in this period. which he didn't do during the arab spring. in the arab spring, we were fragmented. the european union has a duty to ensure that the schengen area is not used as a barrier to entry for citizens of third countries. let's not make the same mistakes. let us ask all the countries, all 27, since we have a massive influx of refugees from syria, to take all their responsibilities. we have the shining example of the eurema pilot project in malta. it is a very good example to persuade all member states at this time to take responsibility and to host and provide the humanitarian aid that is needed for the people who will arrive from syria until the crisis is over. it's the last night we'll talk this year. may 2013 bring better days for the syrians as well.
the question is "blue card". in her final report, the honourable member highlighted the hard work of the greek government, in cooperation with frontex, the european commission and easo, to deal with the flows of nationals from third countries to the greek border. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, minister, commissioner, it is a fact that the european union has been present in the syrian crisis from the very beginning by supporting human rights and international law, by imposing sanctions on the regime, by preventing barbarity, by humanitarian aid, by communicating with the opposition and encouraging a coordinated peaceful and effective role, and most recently by recognising the alliance of opposition groups as the legitimate representative of the syrian people. but where are we today? fear of tomorrow, insecurity, is growing; the violence and the waves of flight too. the hundreds of syrian refugees in the neighbouring countries have already been mentioned by my colleagues, and apart from the problems of living conditions and the humanitarian problems of the syrian refugees, which concern us, there is also the difficulty of absorbing and providing for the basic needs of the countries that are receiving them, plus the political tensions and the difficulty of religious balance that is created in the host countries. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i wanted to address the european commission and the council because i do not feel that there is a strategy at the moment, in view of the wave of displacement that is already taking place, and on the other hand there are countries that are particularly affected, such as my country greece, and are expected to be hit even more, in view of the possible developments. we all know that a nato intervention is possible, and the use of chemical weapons by the syrian regime is possible. i think that the events in our region are serious, tragic, with political and humanitarian implications. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not affected by the crisis. i believe that a coherent and multifaceted strategy is needed, commensurate with the circumstances and the urgency of the situation.
madam president, we have a moral and legal obligation as the european union to welcome these people who are suffering from the developments in syria and who need us now without the twists and turns and the asterisks. i think that's clear. but let me mention my country, greece. we are asking a vulnerable member of our family, greece, to take full responsibility and to clarify: vulnerable member not because of the economic crisis facing greece but because it already bears a huge part of the burden of the migratory flow to europe. i am not ignoring the considerable financial and technical assistance which the commission is giving us. i should like to thank the commissioner on this point, because we feel that she is our ally in the european parliament and your proposal to create the asylum and migration fund is an injection of solidarity, if i may say so, and the council must move quickly and not hesitate to accept this proposal. the solution is simple, i think, if there is the political will. a refugee coming to europe must face a single european asylum system. in such a system, let me say, there is no place for the dublin regulation, which is absurd, which increases tensions between member states and, with all due respect, let me say, which also gives rise to a kind of hypocrisy on the part of some partners on the issues of asylum and illegal immigration. we must therefore give refugees who come to europe the possibility of going to any country they wish and not being trapped in greece because it happens to be on the external borders of our union. this is unfair to the refugees, it is unfair to greece.
madam president, it is a fact that the european union must show greater solidarity with the people fleeing their country, syria, because of the barbaric attacks and bombings of civilians. the countries neighbouring syria have taken a big share of the responsibility and we have to think that they may not be able to afford to take in larger waves of refugees; they're already at the tipping point, but winter is coming. it is likely that many people will be forced to leave the places where they are today, in tents, so i think we should not wait until spring to plan for a mass influx of refugees. i've personally visited some islands in greece and i see that there are people coming from syria who are not registered as refugees at the moment, because they are looking for other ways to reunite with their families. we must therefore consider that the question is not only how much money there is but also whether there is adequate preparation by, among others, the countries in the periphery of europe and greater participation in the shared responsibility by all european countries. greece and other countries will not be able to cope with the management of refugees on their own and we must be ready well before spring; i would say, in the next few weeks, in the next few months, we need to have plans for perhaps a massive influx of refugees into europe.
in writing. following the events in syria, the number of illegal migrants to the north aegean islands has increased significantly in recent times, and there is also an increase in the number of illegal migrants crossing the bulgarian-turkish land border. according to official figures from the greek ministry of foreign affairs, there is a phenomenon of buying visas and using forged syrian documents, which has increased in recent times. we are afraid of a repetition of the situations we have seen in the past with impoverished migrants arriving in europe from its southern borders. in greece there is no adequate infrastructure to accommodate them. the protection of the human rights of migrants must be the result of eu policies and practices, there is a need for solidarity and responsibility-sharing. the current negotiation for dublin 3 is essential to remove the element of responsibility for the country of first entry of illegal immigrants. the transformation of the current conflicts into a general civil war should be addressed as a possibility by the eu member states jointly, through the activation of the european directive on displaced persons.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, fundamental values and rights are indivisible. they are the constitutional foundations on which our societies and our europe base themselves. they should be the compass for all our actions at regional, national and european levels. they should be the compass for respecting the rights of all our citizens in all policy domains – social, economic and security. the discussions in the council have shown that certain member states oppose the inclusion of the former third pillar areas, which no longer exist, in the fra’s multiannual framework as a matter of principle. their position would be the same if we had put forward a proposal to modify the fra regulation, and that is why i am convinced that it is unnecessary and even counterproductive. i would like, as a principle, and as a message to those member states and to some members of this house, to underline the following. we cannot ignore the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and of the binding charter of fundamental rights. perhaps, during the christmas break, reading our treaties and fundamental texts would help some ministers and some members of parliament to understand the context and the significance of the basic rules on which our common fate is based.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 13 december, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on development in the eu by malcolm harbour and others, on behalf of the ecr group (o-000164/2012 - b7-0369/2012), and by jürgen creutzmann and others, on behalf of the alde group (o-000211/2012 - b7-0551/2012), gabriele zimmer and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-000209/2012 - b7-0371/2012), hannes swoboda and others, on behalf of the s&d group (o-00210/2012 - b7-0372/2012).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, let us now talk about growth in europe, since that is what the questions have been about. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the regions of the community to develop their economies in response to the recession, a recession of unprecedented proportions in the whole of europe since the second world war. the images of certain countries in the south in particular, with high unemployment, with malnourished children, with families losing their homes, are familiar to you. the answer, of course, is growth. but the policies that are being followed interpret the crisis differently. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the situation has become more general in greece, which was used as a test bed for the implementation of these policies to overcome the crisis. one country after another is moving towards memorandum policies, austerity policies. the results for the whole of europe are known. i do not mention them; the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. point one: the multiannual financial agreement - i am referring to greece and other countries obviously - in a country which has lost 25% of its gdp due to the recession, which has 26% unemployment, the esdp is cut in half. the commission contends that the regulations do not allow it to do otherwise. but those regulations you could change. how can such a country and, obviously, other countries expect a growth boost? point two: the honourable member referred to the reforms being implemented in the countries of the south. what does he mean by that ? the policy of fiscal consolidation and competitiveness has a direct impact on growth. the example is very specific: in greece, despite internal devaluation, despite wage cuts, firms are leaving because of limited demand and because of a european policy that increases risk. so these policies are ineffective. we must pursue different policies; we are not going to achieve growth with them.
mr president, madam vice-president of the european commission, i hope that what we are discussing here today and the messages that our colleagues are sending are of interest not only to the european commission but also to the european council which will be meeting shortly in brussels. the issue of growth is certainly not the subject of the european council, but we must not forget that growth is the great patient, it is at the foundation of our efforts to make our political and economic plan sustainable, and at the same time growth is the lever that the european union can use to restore the economy, to rebuild society, which is suffering, losing faith in the european union, particularly in countries suffering the heavy consequences of recession and austerity, such as my country, greece, where the younger generation is losing faith in tomorrow. the forecasts for the coming year are ominous for growth in the union and particularly in the eurozone. the european union is still an important trading partner, the most important in the modern world, but it is on a declining path. already recent announcements tell us that china in 2030 will be the largest economic power, and it seems that 2030 is not that far away. and, of course, by the time we get there, there'll be a lot of upheaval in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore time to see how we can make the corrective interventions on the priorities that the union has set out for the coming year, because it is not possible to justify the differences that exist between the countries of the union, with all the consequences for the recovery effort, differences in access to liquidity, differences in the vitality of the labour market, differences in employment rates. these are elements which give new impetus to the efforts of the countries bearing the brunt of the recovery and to the union itself, because without convergence and cohesion it cannot achieve its objectives. the president of the court of first instance accepts to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". thank you very much for the question, which is very important. i fully agree with what you are suggesting, that smes must be given the right climate by both european and national policies. when i spoke in my intervention about the access to and the difficulty of accessing liquidity and, above all, the unequal distribution in the european union, i meant precisely that this affects small and mediumsized enterprises. we must see that it is the lever of this lever that i mentioned that the european union needs to mobilise for its recovery.
in writing. the agency, which was set up in 2007, has not yet fulfilled its role and developed its potential, as the european parliament points out. the report, which i voted in favour of, finds that the next multiannual financial framework ensures adequate funding for the agency to further develop its scope of action in important areas such as social rights, in particular with regard to the independent monitoring of the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). however, its operation should be in the spirit of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon on complementary actions in these areas.
