blue-card question. – did i understand correctly, ms harms, that it is hungary which is at fault for all the mess you have been describing to us in detail in your speech? is hungary to blame for the crisis and everything else, or how exactly is the hungarian issue related to what you have just said?
blue-card question. – mr moraes, you said that we want the danish presidency to deal with the hungarian issue efficiently and urgently and so on. who exactly are ‘we’, mr moraes? what percentage of your constituents do you think would like the presidency to deal with the hungarian issue now, when there is such a deep crisis in europe and there is so much unemployment and poverty? what percentage of europe’s constituents wants us to deal with the retirement age of judges in hungary, or the data protection ombudsman in hungary?
madam prime minister! they're taking over the governance of europe in difficult times, but you're used to the difficulties. let me translate the proposal of my socialist colleagues: if you target hungary, your program will be successful. i don't think that's what it is. i am very pleased to see in your presidency programme the intention that what the hungarian presidency set as a goal just a year ago, namely that by coordinating economic policies at european level we will create the second pillar of economic union, well, now you can start this process responsibly. as a hungarian representative, i know exactly what it is like to work outside the euro area, committed to common policies. a prominent part of their program is the rigorous monitoring of all elements of economic management. to do this, you need a clear head and a cool head, but above all, an attitude of discernment. a forward-looking attitude to see the implementation of these new mechanisms as more than just numbers. i therefore ask you to look for similarities in your work across the member states, not to try to separate them into countries that are doing well or not, but to look for the effort that each member state committed to when it joined. for this i wish you wisdom, patience and perseverance. i wish you every success in steering the european union's ship for the next six months.
herr martin, i am very happy that you are our president. i have a socialist prime minister and am more than pleased. i would like to welcome helle to this fantastic parliament. helle, you are a very tough person i am sure that you are going to do a fantastic job. as some of my friends told me, small countries can work miracles. so let us believe in this miracle. as usual the work of the presidency is cut out. why it is so difficult? just a few reasons: we have to preserve the unity of europe when the eurozone crisis is trying to tear us apart. we have to constantly fight against the extremists and the eurosceptics, and let me underline that citizens are not happy about the european union. we are going to start to apply the ‘six-pack’ and take some painful decisions. there are serious doubts about the prevalence of democratic principles in some of the member states, including a state i know well. however, i am not completely dejected. we have heard a coherent, elaborate presidency programme for a responsible, dynamic green and safe europe. as a mother of two, you place special attention on youth, as i do. i am, therefore, confident that the commission will keep its determination to do this job, and make sure that our common european values are respected everywhere. what is more, we finally have a country in the presidency that is led by a woman, a social democratic woman. for all this i have high expectations. thank you very much for your solidarity.
in writing. although denmark is not a member of the euro area, one of the major challenges of its presidency will be to put into practice the legislation to strengthen economic governance that entered into force last december and to bring about a fiscal compact that further strengthens fiscal discipline. in addition to measures to reduce public debt and deficits, the council should encourage measures to stimulate economic growth and job creation. the danish presidency will launch substantive negotiations on the european union's 2014-2020 budget. i expect the president-in-office to put acceptable compromises on the table and to involve the european parliament in the preparation of decisions. i hope that denmark will pay particular attention to the implementation of the european roma strategy and to the evaluation of the reports submitted under the strategy. i am confident that denmark will stand by the schengen membership of bulgaria and romania and will continue the enlargement process. the council cannot be silent when any member state is in breach of eu law. i hope that as the chair of the inter-state forum, denmark will stand with the european parliament and the eu governments that are putting pressure on the hungarian government to end its policy that is contrary to eu law and values.
in writing. denmark takes the reins in difficult times. despite the extraordinary economic situation, i am confident that europe will be stronger at the end of this term. special thanks go to the danish presidency for maintaining its composure during the attacks on hungary. you've also proven yourself to be a believer in fair, factual debate. the presidency has recognised that the series of hysterical attacks against hungary is the greatest damage to the european idea. the unfounded campaign of slander by left-wing political forces is only strengthening extremist parties across europe. i'd like to address the presidency's energy policy agenda. i was pleased to note that, in addition to short-term crisis management measures, the development of a green economy and the completion of the single energy market remained among the main objectives. i hope that, building on danish experience and expertise, we can make significant progress in both areas during the presidency. one of the most important reports of the semester is the energy efficiency directive. it's in all of our interests to end this early. however, we can only speak of real success if the directive provides solutions that work in real life. noisy goals have often failed. we therefore need to take concrete steps now to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target.
in writing. first of all, let me welcome denmark as the new president of the eu. your state has a great deal of experience in this area, which is a guarantee, as it is the seventh time that you have occupied this position of great responsibility. as we know, europe is going through a very difficult period, so the success of the new presidency is perhaps more important than ever for the eu27. i was pleased to read your programme and to see that you want to take the measures you are about to take to ensure a responsible, dynamic, green and secure europe. i believe that these values are in the interests of the development of the whole european region. more responsible economic policies, preserving economic stability, boosting growth, increasing employment, making more efficient use of renewable energy, examining refugee policy issues and so on are all topical, pressing issues of our time. let me also say a few words about my own field of expertise, which includes industry, research and energy issues. i have to agree with the position that we need to work towards a better functioning internal energy policy, which increases competition between service companies and thus reduces their prices to consumers. it is also important that the european union should not be left entirely at the mercy of countries with vast natural resources. i am convinced that europe's future success lies in research and development, in the creation of new technologies, and in their practical application. we must support all initiatives that help to achieve these goals.
in writing. − in the short debate before the vote, all speakers criticised the fiscal pact, with varying degrees of intensity and arguments. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the euro, and to be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the euro. the decision states that not only austerity measures but also economic growth incentives, taxation of financial transactions and bonds to alleviate the cash shortage are needed. personally, i have found the current draft - revised many times but still not final - to lack the assurance that the union will follow the eu decision-making method of democratic transparency and accountability in implementing the measures. for these reasons, i considered all the points in the motion for a resolution to be important and i fully supported it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, during the holiday period the attention of the international media turned towards hungary with unprecedented vigour. not only left-leaning but also respectable conservative papers were full of stories about hungary. sadly, all serious reports were negative. hungary is suffering from a double crisis: an economic and fiscal crisis as a result of the government’s irrational and at times openly dishonest and destructive policies. we also have a legal and political crisis as a result of the new basic law and a series of cardinal laws approved in a hurry. the commission has realised that something has gone seriously wrong in hungary, but i call the attention of the european institutions to the fact that it is not only the law on the central bank data protection and the judiciary which violates the common values and legal rules of the eu: the legislative frenzy last december resulted in a carpet-bombing of the rule of law and the system of checks and balances. all non-governmental state institutions have had their autonomy stripped away on a systematic basis. the new legal set-up has restricted the jurisdiction of the constitutional court, the ombudsmen and the competition office. it has emptied out the budget office and made a mockery of the court of auditors and media supervision. leaders of all state institutions have been appointed by the ruling party and will stay in office well beyond the mandate of the present government. their term in office is secured by cardinal laws. to add insult to injury, many laws were approved without the slightest chance for the parliamentary opposition to influence their content. legislative drafts arrived at the last minute as individual initiatives inhibiting public debate and professional control. the old constitution, which was not a stalinist one, was modified ten times in a period of one and a half years to avoid scrutiny. the first president of the constitutional court called this practice a destruction of the constitutional culture. the aim of this rampage was stated by the prime minister, who said in an interview last summer that he intends to tie the hands of the next ten governments. as a result of this legal carpet-bombing, hungary may become ungovernable for a long time. german papers labelled the government as ‘rechtskonservativ’. it is a mistake. this regime nationalised the mandatory private pension system, trampling the sanctity of private property underfoot. having destroyed the trust of investors it was not able to reduce public debt; it wasted 10% of gdp and had nothing to show for it. pain and suffering was inflicted upon the people without any reason and result. depositors now take their savings to austria in droves. populist and nationalist policies damage the interests of hungary. we true conservatives expect europe to help us defend the rule of law and fight for the restoration of democratic institutions in hungary. we know that it is our struggle and only the hungarian people can bring about democratic change. rest assured we will continue the fight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hungary is not the reason for the complete failure of the european union and the collapse of your system. no, it is not hungary; it is you, dear ladies and gentlemen, the european union itself. it is you who made all those decisions which resulted in mass unemployment, mass poverty and mass suffering across europe. so it is very interesting and very bizarre that you teach us democracy. what is democracy about? democracy is about representing your people. who are you representing, ladies and gentlemen? do your people in greece, in portugal and so on, the poor, the unemployed, want you to sit here for hours and hours and spend all the resources of the european union on discussing the retirement age of hungarian judges and the hungarian data protection ombudsman, or would they want you to confess your sins? instead of investigating hungary’s issues of sovereignty and self-determination, why do you not investigate yourselves, your decisions? why do you not find out what should happen to europe, what should happen to the poor and how you can end all the suffering that you, dear ladies and gentlemen, have caused?
mr cohn-bendit, i'm not going to let you go. i'm speaking to your chair, because for you, democracy only lasts as long as you speak your mind out loud, but when you should be answering or listening to others, you walk out of the room. then i'm glad you're here, then i'm glad you can hear what i'm saying, namely that i'm asking for myself, on behalf of fidesz and hungary, to be charged with anti-semitism. in hungary, the jews are not afraid! it was viktor orbán's first government that introduced holocaust remembrance day in hungary, and yesterday we launched he personally the year of wallenberg in hungary. if there is anything that jews should fear, it is not viktor orbán, not his government. hungary is a democracy, protects minorities. we'll be damned if we're going to take that in. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i am a european, a fidesz, a hungarian democrat. i have to go to the polls. i began my fight for freedom as a young lawyer against a dictatorial, communist regime. we called freedom. this is why hungary is a european democracy today. fidesz has always stood for this freedom, until today, no matter what you say. today, hungary is a democratic member of the european union and abides by its rules. if the commission says that hungarian law is in conflict with european law, we will listen and change it. we've been setting an example of that in the past. in the case of the hungarian media law, within a few weeks. we're disciplined, committed members of this community, and we want to stay that way. the hungarian people, ladies and gentlemen, are shocked to read and hear what they read in foreign newspapers. they don't know their own country. we know you've been reading these reports. recently, a prominent french journalist who wrote an article about hungary was interviewed by a hungarian television station and asked how the article came about. he said he didn't know hungary, he didn't know the current situation, he gave me background material and asked me to write an article. that article was full of untruths, second-hand material. the attacks on hungary show, ladies and gentlemen, that we have something that we have missed here in the european parliament and in the european union, namely, to get to know each other. you don't know hungary. the accusations, which are largely made in the press and elsewhere, are untrue. we can prove every single point. we're at your disposal if you need us. you don't know us. you don't know about 2006, when the socialist government attacked peaceful celebrants with a cavalry charge, with rubber bullets that shot out the eyes, when for weeks in 2006, tens of thousands of people demanded every day in front of the hungarian parliament the departure of the socialist government that lies to the people's eyes, but know the enormous effort that hungary is making. viktor orbán told us what they are. the whole hungarian administration and state has been transformed. you claim to be european and democratic. the european and the democrat listen to the other. he's not gonna make a judgment before he's done the investigation. that's what we're asking you to do. continue the investigation. get to know us and you will see that hungary is a democracy where the rule of law is respected and that viktor orbán's government has not weakened it but strengthened it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a hungarian patriot and a european, i feel very bad about today's debate. the orbán government has fully deserved the sharp criticism, but it also casts a shadow over my country. i know that when they want to make the hungarian government see things better - the european commission - they don't want to offend for a moment, but they want to punish the hungarian people, and that's right. although the hungarian government has taken a number of measures that are contrary to european values, i think it is an exaggeration to call viktor orbán hugo chavez, a mere putin or a dictator, although unfortunately we can no longer call him a true democrat, but personal dignity is also due to the hungarian prime minister. i ask mr schulz, mr barroso and the danish presidency to make the hungarian people aware that the union is not dictating, it is not directing, it is not the european style. the european union is not an external power, because we hungarians are also part of this community. the union is us. in the european union, as in all families, it is a custom, indeed a moral duty, to warn a family member who has gone astray. while straying is bad for the individual, it is also bad for the community as a whole. if people in hungary live worse, can arbitrarily take away their acquired rights, their pension rights, if millions of people working with a two-thirds cemented tax system are punished and the rich are rewarded, it hurts hungarian society first and foremost. in fact, the orbán government is punishing the hungarian people and not the european union, which it condemns. it is in the interest of hungary first and only second of the european union that our country once again has a real rule of law, a real freedom of the press, a responsible economic policy that avoids state bankruptcy, and that a government that has lost the confidence of the majority can be replaced. as a responsible patriot, i wish hungary to be democratic again, economically prosperous, and at the same time both national and european in its value system. this is in the common interest of hungarian and european citizens.
i asked to speak because i was personally attacked. my wife is the president of the national office of the judges, but not because she is the president of the national office of the judges, but because she was the president of the largest labour court in hungary for 13 years and a judge for 25 years. during its 25 years of activity, it has delivered thousands of judgments and has never been subject to any criticism of political bias. i think that i, myself, should not be an obstacle to my wife's advancement, and i think that the ladies here should probably agree with that.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, my question is this: why do you not apologize for the previous sentences of mr lambsdorff or mrs lunacek when they insulted the women here in the chamber and those outside the chamber when they claimed that a woman could not hold a certain office simply because of her husband's profession, even though she met all the legal requirements? if anything, that was a grossly discriminatory remark, and i expect mr. lambsdorff to apologize here and now! not from za'er yusuf's wife, but from all women.
i am glad that prime minister viktor orbán is here today. europe is about dialogue, and this is an opportunity for dialogue, despite the fact that you have said that you bow to force and not to reason. i hope you're listening to reason. the communication at home is quite contradictory: partly the government says that only small, technical changes are needed, partly that the international leftist conspiracy, the lies of the left are the ones against which the prime minister must protect hungary. you don't have to defend hungary, because the criticism is not directed at hungary, but at you, your policy, which alienates our partners, isolates the country, worsens hungary's interest-enforcement opportunities, and this increases the cost of our debts, worsens the forint. hungary joined the european union voluntarily, not by force. he shares your values and your democracy. democracy, social peace, balanced frameworks for diversity, for the peaceful resolution of naturally occurring conflicts, for social cohesion. these are what he wanted. and that's the problem with the constitution. it undermines the independence of institutions that guarantee the peaceful resolution of social conflicts, so it is not a small mistake, but an attack on democracy: the premature abolition of the office of the data protection ombudsman, the removal of the independent and critical president of the supreme court, as well as the restriction of the competence of the constitutional court, the stigmatization of the poor, the treatment of criminals, the government control of the mass media. without democratic checks and balances, we risk a social explosion. you may have two-thirds of the hungarian parliament, but 84% of those polled say things are going wrong in the country. is your coverage of the debate here balanced? i would therefore ask the parliament's media service to monitor the coverage of today's debate in the hungarian public media and compare it with the international media response.
ladies and gentlemen, i have been a member of this house since 2004 and since then it has been proven time and again that fundamental freedoms have been seriously violated here in the union, and not just by rumors. we need only think of the aforementioned fall of 2006, budapest, which was also judged by the strasbourg human rights court as a very serious violation of freedom, yet, you were not so sensitive to freedom at that time, because a socialist government should have been condemned. this is what i and a growing number of people in europe call a double standard, and in response to those who argue that the conditions for accession should be met, i would say that many of the old member states would not be able to meet the conditions for accession today, if for no other reason than the lack of protection for minorities. twenty years after the change of regime, we have finally got our legal system in order, we have made it european. the economic situation demands it, but even more so the majority of hungarians, because our basic laws have not been renewed in twenty years. until now, judgments have been years in the making, hundreds of houses of worship have been illegally subsidized by the state, there was no parliamentary representation for minorities, and because of constituency disparities, the vote of all of us was not worth the same amount. you do not agree, by one or another legal provision, that the commission expects correction on certain issues. that's understandable, that's your job, if you base it on facts, but it's not acceptable that you judge based on a press campaign, press reports, called a dictatorship, question the free democratic right of hungarian voters. i asked my fellow mps how many of them had read the constitution, how many had read these laws, and in each case the answer came that they had read it from press reports or knew it.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! reading the european press in recent weeks, it might have seemed that the hungarian government was responsible for the bad weather, not to mention the economic crisis. today, however, there was a chance to finally turn the heated debate on hungary into a democratic debate. yesterday the commission also defined in legal form the three issues on which it expects cooperation from the hungarian government. in response, the hungarian prime minister demonstrating his democratic commitment came to respond personally to the allegations. it was our turn in parliament to provide the framework and control for this dialogue. so today, we have a chance to discuss, rather than hysterical, arguments based on facts. but that chance seems to have been lost. today, it's been proven that many on the left are more interested in pursuing a smear campaign that raises conceptual lawsuits than in peacefully resolving the issues at stake. today it has become clear again that the left would rather smear this house with false accusations than to engage in the pursuit of facts. today it has become clear that many on the left still believe that the democratic decision of the hungarian electorate, taken by a two-thirds majority, can be overturned in brussels or strasbourg. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the left is attacking hungarian sovereignty and the country's populist government, but it's good to be aware that the greatest damage is caused to the common european idea. the left is hoping that it has found a model that can be used across europe to weaken the popular party model and can profit from it, but it is wrong because what it does is actually only helping extremist parties. this is an unforgivable irresponsibility at a time when the union is facing the greatest crisis in its history.
in writing. several member states hundreds of infringement procedures are launched against them within a year. hungary's case is not unique in the european union. yet we get the highest level of attention for whatever we do. the debate shows that the left-wing commentators are very lacking in objectivity, which does not bother even their individual leaders. it is a fact that in my country, in the last two years, there has been a transformation of such a magnitude that should have been done at the time of the change of regime. the government has been given the authority to do just that by the voters. i understand those who have suffered injuries, but the methods by which they seek to justify them i do not find acceptable. i think that when we joined the union, we did not decide to give up our sovereignty in all matters, but to fulfil the obligations we had agreed to. i have already indicated in the debate on the programme for the danish presidency that putting hungary on the back burner will not bring a reassuring solution to the eurozone debt crisis. if they spent as much time dealing with the crisis or protecting the euro as they did with hungary, we might have managed to deal with the problems. it is not worth while, in the present crisis in europe, to look for scapegoats and to divert attention from the fact that another intergovernmental agreement is about to be born, with total disregard for the community method.
in writing. – i was shocked to hear that some of my colleagues think that roma live in fear in hungary and that they blame the fidesz government for that. as the only roma member of the ep, i firmly reject such accusations and i would like to remind everyone that fidesz was the only european party to send a roma mep to the european parliament and three roma representatives to the hungarian parliament. the government prioritised developing an eu-level strategy for roma inclusion, the successful adoption of which was appreciated by the vast majority of this house. prime minister orbán signed an unprecedented cooperation agreement with the national roma self-government, presenting quantified and clear targets, and hungary was the first to submit to the commission its comprehensive national strategy for roma inclusion. i was therefore astonished that some of my fellow meps stated without the slightest evidence that hungarian roma are afraid. there is of course a significant anti-roma sentiment throughout europe, but to blame it on a government that has been in office for less than two years is another example of the political misuse and abuse of the roma issue, which i firmly reject.
in writing. – it is a strange experience to be a hungarian these days. i listen to the statements of the left in this house, read the articles in the western press, look at tv reports on hungary and hungarians, and i entirely fail to recognise myself in what they say. the mirror that is being held up is a distorting one; it shows an imagined hungary, born of the dystopic fantasies of the western left. this selfsame left has referred more than once to european values. the one that i miss is that of fairness, of listening to the views of the other side. nor is there much evidence of moderation or reason in what is being marshalled against hungary; it adds up mostly to wild exaggeration and hyperbole. but this campaign, this onslaught against hungary is not without its unintended consequences. opinion in hungary does not recognise itself in the distorting mirror and it resents what it does see. and that resentment is directed at the left, not at the government. it is directed at those who are seen as traducing hungary, hungary’s european credentials and the very european values in the name of which the left claims to be acting.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! looking through the debate on hungary, it is deeply disturbing that some left-liberal mps view our country as a colony. it is time to realize that the eu is going in the wrong direction, because the european nations do not want to live in a europe that is sunk in globalist worthlessness, but in a federation of free countries based on national self-determination. this eu is not what it was a few years ago and jobbik believes that people should be asked about it again. this will be marked by referendums across europe, so that people can express democratically their views on the kind of europe they want. thank you for your attention.
in writing. first of all, i express my solidarity with prime minister viktor orbán, who was not advised by mr hannes swoboda to follow the example of freedom-loving václav havel. the hungarian prime minister should not be here as the defence lawyer of his country, which has been put on a pedestal, but as a guest of honour of the european parliament. but i am convinced that the time will not be too long when like havelt as a defining personality of the change of system in hungary, he will also be received according to his merits. those who try to shame hungary and viktor orbán at the head of his government have no idea about the period and nature of the struggle against the communists who have returned to power twice since 1994. first and foremost, viktor orbán and his fidesz party have the immutable merit of having risen from a beaten situation and been definitively overthrown in a way that amounts to a second regime change. in today's hungary, the post-communist regime, which has been judged by two thirds of the hungarian electorate, continues its post-defensive struggle against the democratic national public will and is trying to overthrow the democratically elected orbán government both in the domestic and foreign policy spheres. i know the nature of the counter-revolutionary communist restoration well from the case of romania. the european union, which is facing a multifaceted crisis, is facing a comparative and moral crisis when it, instead of far-reaching solidarity and support, is subjecting hungary, which has been devastated by socialists and pseudo-liberals, to infringement proceedings and undue harassment. i was afraid of europe. i was afraid of hungary.
in writing. the cancún climate conference proposed a solution whereby central and eastern european member states could take a limited amount of their unused emission allowances in return for supporting the european union's 30% emission reduction commitment. the solution seems to be advantageous in several respects. on the one hand, the european union as a whole must strive to take the lead in the fight against climate change, even in times of economic crisis. with appropriate regulation, we can encourage european companies to innovate in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy, water and resource efficiency. in the future, these energy and resource-efficient technologies will form the basis of european competitiveness. without innovation there is no competitiveness, without a competitive economy there is no employment, without jobs there is no sustainability of the european social model. on the other hand, such an agreement would also benefit the central and eastern european member states. by selling their climate assets, they can replace the resources needed to shift the economic model towards sustainability. for hungary, this climate asset is estimated at around eur 900-1000 million, which would be a huge help in generating revenue for the green economy in hungary. i therefore urge the representatives of the member states in the council to agree on the transfer of the central and eastern european allowances during the danish presidency, which has a positive attitude to the initiative.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the successful negotiations which have given birth to a key principle of european resource efficiency. we are all aware of the fact that the increasing quantity of electronic waste we generate each year is posing numerous challenges for the union. the unskilled collection and treatment of waste not only has serious health and environmental consequences, but also leads to the irresponsible waste of valuable raw materials in europe in the face of increasingly intense global competition for resources. the current revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive provides a framework to address these challenges. the compromise reached sets recovery targets for the member states which, in addition to being ambitious, take account of the consumption habits of the various countries. for example, in eastern europe, consumers are less likely to replace their household appliances within three to four years of purchase and even to use outdated appliances in their holiday homes. the 'one size fits all' approach of the previous directive, with a target of 4 kg/person/year, was unable to address these market characteristics. the most important element of the current agreement is therefore that in the future, depending on the choice of the member state, the quantity of products placed on the market or the amount of waste actually generated may also form the basis for calculating the collection targets. this possibility makes the objectives of the directive feasible and can thus make a real contribution to increasing resource efficiency in europe.
i am pleased that the informal summit focused on economic growth and job creation. however, it cannot be ignored that the process of bringing an insufficiently prepared intergovernmental pact into line with community law has started in december. let us be frank: it is no coincidence that many members believe that this new draft intergovernmental agreement was unnecessary and contains nothing new compared to the previously adopted six-pack. i don't share that view. i'm also very sorry that this content couldn't be included in the six pack earlier. at the same time, however, i would like to stress the importance of any agreement that promotes common economic management and calls for common european action. not just on the level of words, but backed up by deeds. i'm not entirely satisfied, though, because the joint action cannot be implemented. unfortunately, not everyone has signed the pact, and on the other hand, none of the non-area member states will be invited to both events. of course, all's well that ends well, and i'm glad that the signing of the pact is coming to an end, and i hope that by the end of march there will be enough time to eliminate the shortcomings.
mr president, like many of us in the house, i am somewhat torn. on the one hand, i can appreciate that the majority of european decision-makers recognise the need for immediate action in order to handle the crisis, which i agree is no longer solely economic. on the other hand, i am convinced that our point of departure is not the proper one. of course we cannot do without financial stability and strict rules but, in my opinion, the root of the problem is that there has not been enough attention paid to and emphasis on growth, employment and social inclusion. understandably, the majority of the conservative leaders were too preoccupied with the austerity measures, which was a big mistake. in addition, i am not convinced about the way in which the crisis is being handled. we should follow the community method because we cannot let europe diverge from what it represents – the foundation of european construction, a way of working together, irrespective of the differences between the member states. apart from this, i underline an important point. the european parliament is the only directly elected body among the institutions. our president should fully participate in the euro summits.
in writing. 23.7 million women and men. that's how many people were unemployed in europe at the end of 2011. the fiscal pact that was finalized at last week's summit was barely dry when the shocking statistic emerged: the unemployment rate in the eurozone countries was at its highest since the introduction of the single currency at the end of last year. youth unemployment is particularly worrying in spain and greece, where almost half of those under 25 are unemployed. i am glad that the council has finally recognised what the socialist members of the european parliament have been saying for a long time: the situation is unsustainable, and the growing problems in europe cannot be solved by budgetary cuts alone. despite the successive laws and treaties that tighten fiscal rules, recession seems inevitable. without economic growth, deficit reduction cannot be sustained, new jobs cannot be created, the unemployment rate does not fall but rises, hopelessness increases, and extremist ideas and opinions take over. the council took the long-awaited first step by putting the issue of employment, and in particular youth employment, on its agenda. however, the measures decided are insufficient and lack ambition. immediate decisions and action, and a more targeted use of the eu resources on offer, are needed to ensure that today's young people do not feel that they are europe's 'unnecessary generation'.
in writing. i welcome the fact that representatives of all member states are calling for proposals to strengthen competitiveness, consolidate national budgets and create additional jobs. you want to focus on three areas: encouraging the employment of young people, completing the single european market and increasing aid to the sme sector, reducing its burden. in my view, these three directions are good, but their measures are late and incomplete. the possibility of introducing a transaction tax is still rejected, although it is considered economically reasonable that the amount of eur 200 billion from it could give a new impetus to the european business sector, thus generating internal consumption in the union. the millions of young unemployed will undoubtedly be helped by the support of new programmes for upskilling, training and scholarships, but until we sanction employers and encourage them to recruit new young workers, no breakthroughs can be expected in this area. the council's statements did not calm the markets: interest rates on portuguese government bonds, for example, at 17-20%, have not decreased at all in the past two days. i, as a member of the s&d group, take the view that the inclusion of the treaties on economic stability and consolidation in a definitive framework does not provide an adequate answer to the union's current economic and social problems and does not serve the purpose of a united europe. good work takes time, they say. at this point, we're running out of time...
madam high representative, please. as a member of the itre committee, i would like to ask you a question: specifically about the energy embargo imposed by the european union on iran, which i believe is a clear political decision. when you made this decision, did you give any thought to the serious consequences this could have for the security of energy supply in europe? how are we going to explain to our voters here in europe why a litre of fuel costs more than 2 euros and how are we going to solve the problem of the queues at petrol stations? i ask this in light of the fact that, to my knowledge, the iranian state has allowed the iaea's board of inquiry to visit its territory, and at this time, no evidence has been found or any evidence that iran is actually developing nuclear energy for war purposes.
thank you for the floor, mr president, and i would like to congratulate you in particular. i'll continue in english. iran's nuclear program is i think without any question a source of potential danger for the wider west asian region, but we shouldn't allow ourselves to be mesmerised by the nuclear issue because that way we run the risk of missing several other strategic developments. for one, iran is a major power in conventional military terms; indeed militarily it hardly needs nuclear weapons. second, iran has the potential to block the strait of hormuz. this has already been mentioned. this would affect oil exports from the entire gulf region and it would involve around a fifth of the world's oil consumption. then, with iraq gradually evolving into an iranian satellite, tehran's power has increased markedly. the uprising in syria, another of iran's allies, directly affects iran's interest, hence the support extended to the assad regime. in all it is not hard to see the ultimate objective of iran's strategy: control of the gulf, the neutralization of saudi arabia and the exclusion of the united states from the region. the nuclear question is only a part of these strategic issues.
six motions for resolutions the order for reference was made pursuant to article 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday, february 2, 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in russia.
in writing. russia has lagged behind in the past decade in socio-political and economic reforms that are essential for modernisation. in the latter, even china has overtaken russia, as indicated by the 10-year gap between the two countries' wto accession. the russian leadership must urgently initiate comprehensive economic and political reforms. you need to restore the political institutions and the freedom of the press. it must embark on comprehensive economic reforms to kick-start growth. it must strengthen the rule of law and curb corruption. the russian example also shows how harmful it is when a single political force gains supreme power, a constituent majority and removes the checks and balances of power. such practices must be combated within and beyond the borders of the european union. the protests that have been going on for two months now following the russian elections have highlighted the multi-level crisis of the political system in russia. the political capital of the putin-medvedev tandem that controls the country has been depleted, and the support for the two politicians has been significantly reduced. the special system of directed democracy, which tied the functioning of political parties to the support of the executive for the sake of political stability, also came to a standstill. he adapted the electoral law to the expectations of those who govern the country. he restricted the freedom of the press, the right to freedom of assembly and association. this is a warning example for authoritarian policies in the union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i welcome mr. vengeance's report and thank you for your work. the report by mr fisas kolléga supports the achievements of the commission and the council in the field of sport. that is why i strongly support the inclusion of sport as a new support area in the erasmus for all programme, in line with the priorities of the european parliament in relation to sport. the actions proposed in the new programme to support sport are in line with the eu sport work plan adopted under the hungarian presidency. i welcome the fact that health-promoting exercise is an important issue in this program. the call for support for mobility in sport, as set out in its report on the european dimension of sport, includes a sub-programme for the previously unsupported sport sector as a new element in the 'erasmus for all' programme. the adoption of the report at the beginning of the active ageing year will be a particularly successful start to our year, as sport is recognised as a key factor in maintaining health and as a key factor in active ageing.
in writing. – the participation of the most disadvantaged communities in sport activities and their access to related facilities is way below the average. their higher involvement in competitive or mass sport would not only improve their physical and mental health but would also serve as an effective tool for social inclusion and education. moreover, extending the sport sector could also function as an employment creation factor, particularly in disadvantaged regions. the full access to sport should therefore not only be viewed as a matter of leisure, but as a social service of general social and economic interest. member states must take appropriate measures to increase the number of socially disadvantaged children in competitive and leisure sport activities and to improve skills and develop a positive attitude to an active life for disadvantaged youth, and the structural funds could be mobilised in order to develop sport facilities and opportunities so that disadvantaged children can engage in sport outside school in disadvantaged regions. special incentives – such as scholarships – might also be developed to help disadvantaged children enter the talent care programmes of all main branch associations.
in writing. i myself contributed to the report of mr ayxela fisas as shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the libe committee. i am particularly pleased that disability sport is prominently featured in the report, in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which the eu has ratified. i call on the commission to do everything possible to develop and support sport for people with disabilities, using the framework of the lisbon treaty. i take this opportunity to point out that the deaf olympic movement, the deaf olympics, has suffered for years because of the lack of funding from the eu and the eu member states, the 2010 winter deaf olympics in slovakia were cancelled, and in 2013 greece withdrew from the organization. now in hungary, they're trying to create a deaf olympics with reduced content. we are putting the future of thousands of professional deaf athletes at serious risk. this is unacceptable! we have to do something about it.
a year earlier, parliament's plenary voted overwhelmingly to ban cyanide mining. nevertheless, in complete disregard of the european charter of representative democracy and in invoking the national competences of the member states, the european commission is unable to ban the use of cyanide mining, and in romania, despite all the protests, the authorisation of the mining investment in verespatak is moving forward unabated. on the anniversary of the tisza cyclone disaster on 30 january 2000, as one of the drafters of this resolution, i hereby ask president martin schulz to intervene on behalf of parliament with the commission and romania to implement our resolution of last year. if this gigantic project is realized, the reservoir at verespatak, 40 times larger than the zagytar reservoir in grand bahia, will be a veritable ecological atom bomb.
in writing. in my view, the 14th company law directive on the crossborder relocation of companies is essentially intended to strengthen the union's competitiveness. this requires a dynamic and flexible company law. as we have seen, even a broad interpretation of the most significant judgments is not sufficient to dispel all the uncertainties that have arisen in relation to the freedom of establishment and to create complete legal certainty. and that's what the economy needs. in contrast to restrictions, the competitiveness of the union as a whole can be helped by regulatory competition at corporate and tax law level, which may result from the free choice of the seat. companies are free to choose where they want to have their headquarters. member states are obliged to adjust their legislation if they wish to avoid the emigration of companies which opt for a more favourable legal regime. all this leads to indirect harmonisation within the community. the question of how to proceed is left behind. it has now been established that the criticisms which, in principle, called into question the future and the validity of this directive were unfounded. however, it is clear that the rules that have been established are not without flaws. and your future destiny will be determined by your usefulness and your usefulness.
it is clearly welcome that the european parliament has an opinion on tax policy issues in europe. the report rightly recognises the importance of coordination of tax policies in the exchange of information, the absence of which in the long term leads to taxation opacity and the possibility of tax avoidance. however, this in itself is much more than a lack of millions of euros, as over time the smooth functioning of the single market and cross-border businesses may be at stake. however, it should be clarified that, as long as tax policy properly remains a matter of national competence, member states should cooperate in making tax policies, which also represent the main revenue for their budgets, transparent and comparable, as well as the tax collection system and the tax planning strategies used. however, in order to make europe competitive in the fight against tax avoidance and double taxation in the context of different tax policies, the european community itself needs to be more actively involved in addition to the oecd.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that strengthening positive relations with the bric countries is in the vital interest of the european union, and thus of hungary, in today's socially and economically accelerating world order. the strengthening of this relationship is well supported by the fact that these countries' growth potential is becoming more and more prominent in the world, thereby claiming more and more space for themselves in shaping world politics. this rapid development affects the interests of the european union and its member states in all aspects, both economically and politically. this situation has, of course, direct implications for the union's economic, foreign and security policy, and i am thinking here in particular of chinese investments. i therefore believe that the european union should play a proactive role in engaging with the bric countries, thereby strengthening its global role.
as a lawyer, i voted in favour of the report on the directive on the transfrontier relocation of companies. i did so because the freedom of establishment enshrined in articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly serves the european union's aim of achieving the single market at all levels by breaking down national frontiers. strengthening the single market is in our common interest, since it is in the interest of all member states that the european union should be a genuine free area without restrictions. by extending the freedom of establishment to enterprises, investments and business establishments of the hungarian economy are also fully protected and secure as part of the internal market. the very successful removal of restrictions so far makes the union and the member states individually competitive in the world. we must support this endeavour, as the case law of the european court of justice confirms.
i, for one, agree with the desire to improve the efficiency, speed and coordination of the european union's disaster management tools. the union has a great responsibility as a global actor in humanitarian aid throughout the world, as it is the largest donor. as the commission's directorate-general for echo manages and directs the use of these funds, i welcome the rapporteur's proposals to strengthen the efficiency of echo's control, monitoring and surveillance system. i consider that rapid response to natural disasters is essential, as demonstrated by the disasters in haiti and pakistan in 2010. the european union and hungary have done well in this area, and i supported this proposal.
i voted in favour of the report because i condemn all forms of violence, especially violence against children, young people and women. i agree that the increasing use of online social networks has led to the emergence of new forms of violence. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i think it is right that the report states that children should be informed about the dangers of online content at school. on the other hand, education at an early age could reduce gender inequalities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the development of the information society and the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the development of the information society is based on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the development of the information society and the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the promotion of the use of the internet for the purpose of promoting the promotion of the use of the internet. that needs to change.
in writing. − the 2008 judgment of the european court of justice in a hungarian case confirms the urgent need for a harmonised system for the crossborder relocation of companies within the union. the adoption of the report sends a clear signal to the commission to get to work and put forward a legislative proposal on the subject.
in writing. − collective enforcement increases legal certainty and can have a preventive effect on businesses that normally cause damage of a small amount but affecting many people. in such cases, the deterrent for the injured party is the risk of incurring legal costs, because the cost of individual enforcement usually exceeds the expected benefit. i want to emphasize that i do not support the widespread abuse of unfounded class actions in america to invade europe. however, i believe that a uniform european regulation on collective redress would significantly reduce consumer distrust and could be a suitable tool for developing a practical and more effective remedy that would serve the interests of both the injured parties and the companies.
in writing. − in the interests of the european union and its member states and of international peace, i have voted in favour of the resolution of the european parliament on iran and its nuclear programme. in recent months, iran has undermined the european union's efforts towards international peace on several occasions. this included repeated violations of articles 2 and 3 of the npt, secrecy about its nuclear programme and threats to close the strait of hormuz, which, as a strategic point, could have a very serious impact on europe's oil supply. this measure may also undermine the relatively calm situation in the region. based on all of this, and the iaea report, i believe that iran's nuclear program is not for peaceful purposes. the negative measures already taken against him and those to be taken pursuant to the council decision of 23 january 2012 are therefore, in my view, justified and serve the interests of the international peaceful world order and the european union.
in writing. − as a former minister for youth and sport, i am convinced that sport plays a decisive role in both the economy and society. sport is a link between citizens of the union, since it is open to all citizens, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, religion, age, nationality or social status. the economic added value of sport in the union is significant: it represents 15 million jobs (5.4% of the active population) and contributes 3.65% of european gdp. in addition, sport has a positive impact on the health budgets of the member states, as it has a positive impact on the health of european citizens. we must not forget that sport can also play an important role in boosting tourism. in the light of all this, i agree with the rapporteur that the economic and social role of sport needs to be further strengthened. the fact that sport can benefit from the european structural funds is an important step in this direction. special training is essential for elite athletes who wish to pursue higher education. the fight against doping must be continued unabated. sport should be promoted in education, as it (among many other positive effects) helps to break down social barriers and to integrate marginalised groups. sport is an effective means of strengthening european identity. to this end, i support the rapporteur's proposal to organise an annual european day of sport, to elect a 'european capital of sport' every year and to set up mobility programmes for young athletes to learn new training methods while promoting intercultural dialogue.
in writing. the european union is undergoing rapid and dramatic change. some challenges and problems, although of varying probability, are predictable: recovery from the crisis, the consequences of global competition and the difficulties in managing sustainable development. but there is no doubt that the eu will face challenges that are not yet visible. however, it is also clear that, since the existence of competition policy, it has always been able to cope with a major transformation of its environment, against the background of the stable framework of the treaty. the eu's competition policy remains one of the european union's greatest assets, thanks to its flexibility and adaptability. i therefore consider it important that the adoption of the commission's guidelines on enforcement priorities for the application of anti-competitive and abusive conduct by dominant undertakings has succeeded in embedding the consumer-centred economic approach in the framework for the implementation of antitrust measures. i support the measures outlined by rapporteur andreas schwab, as the effective application of eu competition policy tools is in the interest of all european citizens, both within and outside the union, and is therefore a duty of the european parliament.
mr. president, i have to go. ensuring an adequate level of protection of intellectual property rights and a single market is key to the union's economy. the european intellectual property framework needs to be transformed to create opportunities for companies and citizens that are available today, but it is also important that it meets the requirements of the online world and the global competition for ideas. but we also cannot fall into the trap of over-regulation, which, as we see in the case of acta, is a source of anxiety, speculation and, in some cases, hysteria. progress is also dependent on new ideas, new knowledge. but innovation will not be an attractive investment opportunity for anyone if we do not give intellectual property rights the necessary protection. therefore, it is important to have a observatory that can provide european knowledge.... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! my fellow members of the house of representatives! based on the experience of the last few years, we can confidently say that january is the month of gas crises. in early 2009, russian gas was cut off for several weeks. last year, the ukraine-russia dispute raised questions about whether europe should receive russian gas. things haven't improved this year either. in january, gas from russia fell significantly overnight in a member state of 9 million. my fellow members of the house of representatives! we have a solution. it has been said many times in this house that we need new resources. however, the construction of the import pipelines seems to take too long. in the short term, therefore, efforts should be made to build at least interconnectors between member states. the security of supply of the most vulnerable countries in central and eastern europe can only be ensured by connecting them with the western european member states which already have alternative sources of supply. this solution is in the interest of the whole european union.
madam president! i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the cry for help that many of you are making. throughout europe, the consequences of the economic crisis have been felt most acutely by the most vulnerable groups in society. this is especially true today in hungary, where a one-time tax and family policies that favor the wealthy have caused a huge budget deficit, and the government is preparing to make up for it by abolishing previously established disability pensions. it transforms the insurance-based benefit for people with altered working capacity into a lower benefit or leaves them without income if they cannot find a job in a labour market that cannot take healthy people. in government communications, it's about a useless, unwilling layer of workers, abuses, fraud. in numerous letters, i have been asked to inform the european parliament of the plight of these desperate people. to quote one letter writer: "i understand the need to tighten the belt, but in this country, it's just for poor people these days".
mr. president, i have to go. the frequency of intellectual property infringements has increased in recent times, with significant losses for the cultural and creative sectors. during this period, the activities of the european union observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, set up by the commission, have multiplied. i therefore voted in favour of the regulation, namely that the observatory should henceforth be placed under the authority of the office for harmonization in the internal market. the merger will also have budgetary savings. the report also takes account of the opinion of the committee on culture and education, thus highlighting the cultural dimension of intellectual property rights, and the european parliament's proposals show that we are focusing on encouraging new business models that expand the legal supply of cultural and creative content and on supporting the protection of intellectual property of smes.
in writing. − i voted against today's socialist-liberal motion for a resolution condemning hungary, because with this resolution the socialist-liberal factions have crossed a line that cannot be accepted by any political opponent. this decision, which was finally adopted today, is against the hungarian people and all of hungary. hungarian socialists sacrifice their country for their political goals, which is a category of treason. the motion for a resolution itself is a fabrication because it makes slippage seem real and the prosecutor is a braggart. although the political decision has no legal force, the political intention behind it is clear - to weaken the hungarian government and to render its measures obsolete. obviously, it took enormous forces for the socialists to join forces with the greens and the liberals to adopt a number of points that were full of slips, lies and serious violations of our right to self-determination. hungarian socialists like to hide behind other people's skirts. in 1956, the soviet union was invited, now the eu advisory bodies and the un and the osce were invited, and they did not even wait for the normal procedure, i.e. the end of the consultations between the government and the commission. this was a real modern-day conception trial disguised as a democracy.
in writing. − the single register of companies is not only useful for consumers, but also has significant advantages for businesses, as free access can save businesses time and considerable costs. this could mean savings of up to tens of millions of euros. unfortunately, at present, business operators face many difficulties because the business registers in each member state contain only certain types of data, the information is not always up to date, access is difficult and the translation of the data is often not available. it is for these reasons that i believe that the further integration of the internal market in this area should be a top priority and that it is therefore important to remove the existing legal and practical obstacles as soon as possible. today, more and more companies are advertising their services across national borders, which has led to a significant increase in online shopping within the union, for example. it is therefore necessary, in the interests of consumer safety, to establish a system to monitor the lawfulness of the companies in question. the aim of the proposal under discussion is precisely to increase legal certainty and transparency in the legal relationship between consumers and companies, and i therefore support the report.
in writing. − with the increase in cross-border mobility of companies, there has been a recent increase in the need for information on companies to be made publicly available throughout europe, equally to citizens of any member state. however, trade repositories are currently regulated differently at member state and, in some cases, regional level, which creates legal uncertainty for third parties and hinders the restoration of confidence in markets. in my view, the effective functioning of the internal market requires that economic operators have easy access to up-to-date and reliable company information. i think that the adoption of this proposal will bring us closer to that goal.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i do not support the proposal because it is again a question of giving way to the large international financial institutions in the national markets, crowding out the system of financial intermediation that may still be in the hands of the national authorities, and of course the considerable profits of financial intermediation would also be lost to the national institutions.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! fortunately, the poor and the hungry don't watch this debate, because they would hate the european parliament and the eu institutions even more. it is a shame that this debate is taking place today, and i would like to draw the attention of farmers to the fact that the opinion of europe on agriculture is not so good, that is to say, that it would help the prestige and authority of agriculture a great deal if we did not make the argument that we should choose between agriculture and social policy. i would like to draw the attention of mr nicholson and mr lyon - i have great respect for them - but we know very well, as farmers sitting here, that there are many social elements in the first pillar of direct payments. anyone who denies that is a liar. consequently, hungry people are not interested in whether they get bread under agricultural policy or social policy, but whether they get food or not. so i ask the farmers not to invoke this, but to defend the poor and the dignity of agriculture.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the basic problem is that there is an imbalance between the milk producers and the milk processors. unfortunately, there is a hierarchy and the milk processors, i must say, take advantage of the milk producers. we see examples of exactly what they're doing in a price competition, what additives they're putting in certain dairy products so they can sell them cheap. they add additives and then they go through multinational chains of distribution to all over europe, generating a price competition that will eventually lead to even milk being imported from china and milk producers going bankrupt in europe, so it's very important that we call for restraint through the regulatory system to milk processors. here's the solution, and the key word is food sovereignty. it is only within the framework of food self-sufficiency that we can ensure that people have access to dairy products at low prices and that these dairy products are of high quality throughout europe.
in writing. the milk crisis of 2008-2009 which brought producers to the brink of survival must not be repeated. two years ago, milk from hungarian shops was bought for 109 forints per carton at a price of 9 forints, according to the dairy council. the report also ensures that producer organisations do not become a monopoly, either at national or european level. the fixing of purchase prices every six months helps to eliminate the price fluctuations affecting producers. this is a necessary step before the milk quota system is abolished in 2015. i regret that the commission and the council have not agreed to make contractual relations binding. the commission notes that the hungarian milk sector is not competitive due to the climatic conditions of the carpathian basin. the distribution of rainfall makes it much more economical to produce polish, slovak or german milk, and it would therefore be essential for hungarian farmers to regulate contractual relations. the high feed prices and the increased tax burdens, wages and contributions resulting from fidesz's measures make it impossible to live decently at the current commercial 'transfer price level'. we need to convince the hungarian people again of the need to unite. the cooperative form is not an invention of the devil, and in many countries of western europe it has a long tradition. farmers can protect their interests against the manufacturing industry and supermarkets. i trust that the hungarian government will voluntarily undertake the obligations laid down in eu law.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday, february 16, 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the agricultural trade agreement with morocco is contrary to the interests of european consumers and farmers. it is contrary to the interests of consumers as it would facilitate the entry into the union markets of fruit and vegetable products that are often treated with plant protection products already banned in the eu. in recent years, peppers from morocco have been found in hungary containing banned chemical residues. the agreement also runs counter to the interests of european farmers, who must comply with increasingly stringent eu environmental and food safety rules, while imports from morocco are not subject to these rules. the spanish farmers pointed out that the european commission had not carried out any impact assessment on the likely effects of imports. we agree with and support the position of the largest european economic association, copa-cogeca, of which magosz is a member, which calls for the convention to be rejected.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds (o-000333/2011 - b7-0022/2012) by mrs sharon bowles on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
i am very sorry but the commission is also obliged to keep to its speaking time.
madam president! officer, please. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine is a very good one. that's for sure. but from now on, i have only questions. both in relation to the introduction of the scheme and to the member states wishing to join. you, officer, gave a general introduction, for which i thank you very much. i feel that you are in a very difficult position with regard to the replacement of commissioner rehn, but i cannot ignore the fact that this matter has long since passed the general line. we should be talking about specifics now. the green paper contains two essential elements for the introduction of bonds. it is a question of budgetary discipline and increasing competitiveness. are there any other conditions that are necessary for the issuance of bonds? it is also unclear how member states which are not part of the union will be able to join. i'd like to see a road map, but it's not general anymore. it's specific. i'm waiting for your answer on this.
in writing. the package of legislation mentioned by gunnar hökmark is an important step towards strengthening the european union's competitiveness. it is gratifying to see that, in addition to tackling the economic crisis, there is finally a growing focus on long-term competitiveness. the proposal adopted states that the availability of the 800 mhz frequency band from 2013 will facilitate the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market and open up the possibility for new services to be available to users. the proposal envisages the provision of 1200 mhz for mobile data traffic by 2015, at the request of the european parliament. the allocation of frequencies is a matter for the member states, but the rules on spectrum management are the responsibility of the european union. the frequency bands released for mobile broadband contribute to the digital agenda's target of a minimum speed of 30 mbps by 2020, thus guaranteeing high download speeds even for those living in remote areas. i would like to highlight the role of the hungarian presidency in the drafting of the proposal, as during the six months of the presidency a political agreement was reached on effective frequency management. with the successful closure of the dossier, a growing part of society can benefit from the benefits of the internet, leading to economic growth and a stronger european competitiveness.
mr. president, i have to go. we should welcome the fact that the sixth package will be joined this march by a new element, the fiscal compact, which will help to ensure compliance with the common economic management. i won't. it is now clear that austerity measures alone are not enough to overcome the crisis. i cannot understand how economic assessments based on precise indicators can be ignored by some commissioners, perhaps because of political emotions, and thus distort markets, but most importantly, the member state concerned. then they'll impose fines, depreciation, and then further budget cuts, which is foreclosure. there's another problem. that if the imf and the eu formulate short-term measures to restore the budget, that is acceptable. if a member state does it on its own, that is unacceptable. why is that? i often feel that europe wants everything and nothing. but it's also immediate and simultaneous.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! growth, fiscal consolidation, and job creation. these three areas are what will determine europe's successful future, its recovery from the protracted economic crisis. growth can be achieved through research and development, the application of new technologies, fiscal adjustment of public expenditure, the transformation of large supply systems, and the creation of new jobs by encouraging employers and expanding the skills of young workers. i therefore maintain my position that a pan-european economic policy should not be based on austerity alone. as a hungarian politician, although i believe that the treaties on economic stability, consolidation and governance and the european stability mechanism do not offer a clear cure for the situation in europe, it is in my country's fundamental interest to join them. i welcome the fact that the hungarian government, led by fidesz, has changed its initial negative, withdrawn position and committed itself to signing the agreement. however, it should be noted that these measures may be temporary, but in the long term they will certainly not solve the future of europe. we need to find new sources of energy that will increase consumption, stimulate micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and thus create new jobs. the introduction of eurobonds and a transaction tax, which have long been the subject of debate in brussels, could provide a solution. my fellow members of parliament! the road ahead is not smooth, and perhaps the end is not in sight, which is why we must have particularly precise, predictable solutions.
mr. president, my dear officer, my dear colleagues. as the employment coordinator of the epp group, i welcome mrs berès' report on the employment guidelines. and i'm doing that because i was the lead reporter for the initial report in 2010. so we thought we'd put together a guideline that would remain unchanged through 2014. we thought we'd review and renew it on a yearly basis, on a regular schedule. i was secretly hoping that it wouldn't. i was hoping that perhaps the results would require a change, perhaps a change to more ambitious objectives. unfortunately, that's not the case. the 2010 guidelines have not been repealed. the unemployment figures are still bad, dramatic, and in some ways, even worse. the unemployment rate went from 9.5 to 9.9 percent, right? there are nearly 24 million unemployed, and this has been said before. and what's even more dramatic is that five and a half million is essentially the number of young unemployed. this calls for immediate action. i therefore welcome the council's decision of 30 january, which specifically focuses on the problem of youth unemployment. i think it's the right thing to do, and i think it's the right thing to do, even if there are countries where things are a little bit better. so i would like to emphasize and call on the member countries to give priority to the youth in action flagship initiative. indeed, getting young people into careers within four months is a key issue for the future. i am of course in favour of keeping the guidelines in place.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the committee on employment and social affairs has drawn up this report and i also hope that parliament’s position will be taken into due account. youth unemployment figures in europe are extremely worrying and they are getting worse – 5.6 million young people are unemployed, which is the equivalent of 22% in the eu. this is twice as high as the adult unemployment rate, which stands at 10%. we risk condemning an entire generation to despair and social exclusion because young people are being forced into inactivity. therefore the party of european socialists, under its campaign ‘your future is my future’, has to put concrete solutions on the agenda. we want a european youth guarantee that will ensure that every young person in europe is offered a job, further education or work-focused training within four months at the latest of leaving education or becoming unemployed. society needs young women and men, and their talents and skills, on the labour market in order to strengthen europe. yes, it will cost us eur 10 billion, but if they remain unemployed it will cost the european union eur 100 billion every year.
in writing. – i welcome the fact that tackling the social consequences of the crisis is one of the five priorities listed in the recent annual growth survey. it is very important that the sector of employment and social affairs is not overshadowed by the focus on fiscal consolidation, and that the headline target of increasing employment is kept on the agenda and further promoted by investing in sustainable job creation. it must be ensured that consolidation measures will not have further negative impacts on people at risk of poverty and/or social exclusion. the commission should therefore put more emphasis on guiding member states in coordinating their national reform programmes with the goals of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular increasing employment and introducing effective incentives for work. the successful launch of the national roma inclusion strategies and its european framework is indispensable in this respect, since roma constitute a huge reserve of idle workforce and are disproportionately over-represented among those living in poverty. increasing the employment of roma – so that this approximates to the regional average – would already trigger substantial economic growth that many countries with a significant roma population and hit by the sovereign debt crisis are so desperately in need of.
mr. president, i have to go. the 2012 annual growth survey rightly emphasises that the success of economic governance depends to a large extent on the fiscal austerity of individual member states, but that it is equally important to kick-start economic growth and at the same time complete the internal market. unfortunately, this has not been given enough attention in the six-package or the current fiscal pact. but there is no point in member states cutting public spending in the short and medium term if structural reforms are not implemented. the commission is not satisfied with the reforms and efforts of the member states. it wants a quick result, it urges, it forces these results, which leads to unnecessary austerity and further increase in unemployment. that is why this report is good, and why it is important that the commission finally raises the issue of putting this back at the centre of its country-specific recommendations.
mr. president, i have to go. i accept your generosity, and i will next time.
mr. president, i have to go. i voted no to the amendment rejecting the council's position. the union's frequency policy is part of its competitiveness and i agree that the european union should strive to be a leader in terms of speed, mobility, coverage and capacity of broadband services. the legislative proposal reflects well the emergence of a triple priority: consumers, content and competition. increased demand from consumers indicates that additional frequencies are needed in terms of both capacity and coverage. content, i.e. universal access to digital services, is helping to deliver the eu 2020 strategy. an effective spectrum policy means that consumers can choose between providers, thus creating healthy competition. the way in which the frequencies are sold varies from country to country, and i think that a common allocation mechanism is needed. finally, it should not be forgotten that a well-designed spectrum policy and frequency expansion are also a prerequisite for the growth of the cultural and creative industries.
in writing. − the economic crisis and the resulting rise in food prices are having a serious negative impact on the food security of the most deprived eu citizens. i therefore welcome the fact that parliament opted to accept the council’s position without amendments since, following a two-year obstruction, any further delay would worsen the situation and undermine the credibility of the programme. both the commission and the council have taken on board most of the ep’s recommendations at first reading, so the scheme will be based solely on food of community origin, purchased on a competitive basis, with preference given to locally-produced fresh products, and with a clear obligation for distribution points to advertise the eu’s involvement. it is also very important that storage costs incurred by charitable organisations will be reimbursed and that, by doubling the sources of supply, distribution will no longer be limited to products to which intervention applies, so member states in cooperation with civil society can make their choices on the basis of nutritional balance. further issues, such as the review of the 100 % ratio of eu funding and the introduction of co-financing, might be discussed again later, given the possibility of reviewing the plan in exceptional circumstances.
in writing. − in addition to my opinion on the pan-euro-mediterranean system of cumulation of origin, i support not only the extension of the diagonal system of cumulation but also its practical introduction and integration into the eu regulatory system. i agree to the conclusion of the agreement, as it is the conclusion of the barcelona process. this agreement will enable the eu to respond effectively to the overly complex mechanisms that have arisen with its mediterranean partners in the context of existing bilateral arrangements, and to the new opportunities and challenges that have emerged in the context of the arab spring. i would like to stress in particular the desire to extend the diagonal cumulation system to the western balkan countries as a long-term objective, thereby facilitating agreements with future new members from this region.
in writing. − one of the main reasons for the 2008 crisis in the european dairy sector was the increase in milk quotas voted in the council by the previous socialist government. the fidesz european parliament delegation opposed both the increase in quotas and the subsequent abolition of the quota system from 2015. in our view, supply-limiting measures would be necessary even if the quota system were to be abolished. however, the current proposals of the european commission on the milk market could lead to the single internal market for milk being broken up into member states' markets, where different national rules may apply to the sale of milk. i've submitted a motion to amend in the interests of the producers. this would mean that in the case of a crossborder transport contract the rules of the place of residence of the owner would apply, but my proposal did not receive a majority.
in writing. - mr prime minister! first of all, i would like to thank you for your report today, in which you also highlighted the sad fact that the growth-enhancing aspects of european policies continue to receive insufficient attention. but i must emphasize at this point that these proposals are only useful if they can be integrated into the common european economic policy framework and, in addition, fit into a well-constructed crisis mechanism. i am concerned that the commission always sets out ambitious plans, and that the positive impact is sometimes only marginal. the range of measures taken to reduce youth unemployment is a good example. there is no doubt that long-term reform of labour markets is needed, but reforms that are delayed are slow to deliver the expected results. a pan-european crisis map is needed to identify and demarcate the most affected crisis areas on the basis of their most fundamental characteristics. the availability of jobs, the rate of unemployment, the quality of public services and other environmental conditions must therefore be taken into account. if we do not do this, europe's problems could become a cause for further concern and we could find ourselves facing another wave of discontent. in addition to addressing the challenges arising from the current economic crisis, it is therefore essential to step up our joint efforts to ensure sustainable and employment-enhancing growth.
mr president, i think we can all agree that what is happening in syria – the use of force against people calling for political change – is unacceptable and deplorable. we have heard a great deal this afternoon on this topic. the question in my mind is: why are syria’s rulers so obstinate in resisting change of any kind? the assad regime has not offered a single meaningful concession to the social forces demanding change. i think this requires an explanation that few of the assessments have so far offered. it is a mistake to see syria as a unified society, far from it: it is wholly divided, with basically five major groups living side by side. the group that has monopolised power is the alawites, to which assad’s own extended family belongs. the alawites have co-opted the druze, the christians and the shia. taken together, they make up about 30% of the population. the majority of those at the heart of the anti-assad movement are sunni muslims, who have been very largely excluded from power and its benefits by the assad system. the fear of the ruling establishment is that a simple majority system would put power in the hands of the sunni majority, with no guarantees that other groups would be included in a future regime run by the sunnis. any settlement, if it is to work, must take these factors into account. otherwise, sadly, the fighting and killing will go on, because neither side will see any benefit from a settlement. international guarantees for the security and wellbeing of syria’s minorities are essential if a settlement is to last.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. let me first congratulate mr. derek vaughan, who prepared the report. let me start by saying that we consider it a very important achievement that in the 2012 budget we have already been able to show very significant results in terms of savings. that's what we have to keep doing. we must be good housekeepers in the european institutions, and in institutions outside the commission. i think it's very, very important that in a difficult economic time, in a time of economic crisis, we start saving ourselves, and it's very important that we start with the members, so reducing the travel of the members, freezing the daily allowances and possibly reducing the indirect costs related to the members, such as translation costs, should be the first. but it's also very important that we don't act like lawn mowers. continuous improvement in efficiency must be a goal, so we must not only save, but also invest in the hope of saving in the long run. for example, better integration of technological advances is sure to save money in the long run. at the same time, i would like to stress that it is very important that there should be no savings in the costs incurred, for example, in preparing croatia for accession. members from croatia and staff from croatia shall have the same driving licences as the other members. so we have to think differentially, of course. i would stress that when reducing staff costs, there must be negotiations with the trade unions, negotiations with the social partners. and i would like to welcome the establishment of a committee which, in cooperation with the committee on budgets and parliament's secretariat-general, can develop measures for continuous efficiency and cost-saving. in the hope of this work, i would like to once again congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have taken part in this work. thank you for listening.
society generally thinks that by "access" we mean the elevator, the ramp, or the handrail. that's not true. a large proportion of people with disabilities are denied access to information, such as the deaf, hard of hearing, or, as this debate is about, the blind and the visually impaired. i ask the honourable chairman to note in the minutes that i was not asked to speak by the sign language interpreter, so that you can understand what it means to be unable to access information. five percent of the visually impaired can only read books. we need active political engagement.
in writing. − as this is an area of the internal market where the common requirement is to ensure the comprehensive protection of depositors and the same stability of deposit guarantee schemes within the eu, it is clear that i myself am contributing to the adoption of this report. nothing justifies my commitment more than the fact that by accepting this, the kind of banking system that has recently led to a great upheaval in hungary will be excluded, since many have eliminated their domestic bank deposits and placed them in banks in another country. it is particularly welcome that the directive clearly defines the level of cover for the same depositor, that it specifically and specifically identifies the revenues from all transactions that are covered by this protection and that the revenues of local authorities are also adequately covered. this common safety net provides a high level of protection for depositors in the european union.
in writing. − a sensible and justified extension, cost-effective and in the midst of a moderate maintenance. this is how i can summarise the substance of the yes vote i gave in support of the report on the guidelines for the 2013 budgetary procedure. the european union, through the european parliament, has once again demonstrated its great capacity and willingness to implement a strategically important enlargement such as the accession of croatia in a way that does not impose a burden on the multiannual financial framework that has already been adopted. i was also pleased to note that there was a strong demand for the establishment of a working group to carry out an independent evaluation of the ep's budget and for all measures to keep the budget within reasonable and economic limits. there is no doubt that the institutions of the european union and the european parliament itself must be at the forefront of the restrictive economic policy that it promotes and requires from the national budgets of each member state. the acceptance of this report can be the justification and the basis of the social demand that is increasingly appearing against the political elite.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual plan for the western atlantic stock of the atlantic bannerfish and its fisheries. i agree that to maintain the western bass king stock at the right level, there must be a balance between sustainable exploitation of the population and the highest long-term yield. of course, this equilibrium level can only be established with accurate biological information. this is a major issue for coastal regions, but by setting precise rules and limits for this species, we are helping to extend the rules to other species. i believe that this is necessary to ensure the competitiveness of the fisheries sector at eu level and to ensure that the very diverse marine fish stocks that still exist today are accessible to future generations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it concerns one of our most important common resources, the conservation and management of fish stocks. this ecosystem-based approach contributes to the establishment of protected and sustainable fisheries by strengthening the responsibility of those concerned. it thus also fulfils an environmental protection function, which can also reduce the effects of negative changes due to climate change. i should like to stress in particular that fishing, as a core activity and its associated ancillary activities, is an important building block for europe's economic growth.
in writing. − this political decision is a disgrace to european socialists and liberals, because it was made without knowledge of the facts, based on biased press reports, and lacking in evidence. this political decision is a disgrace to the hungarian socialists, because it follows the principle of "the worse the better". whoever wants to suspend hungary's membership rights is also initiating the withdrawal of european union funds. the socialists want to deprive hungary of thousands of billions of forints of eu aid in the midst of the economic crisis, only to further restrict the economic space of the orbán government, and then to show the government again that it cannot implement its program.
in writing. − i reject the fact that hungary's self-determination is seriously violated by certain political groups. there is a formal dialogue between hungary and the european commission, the european parliament should wait for the commission's analysis. hungary is open to this dialogue. i find it unacceptable that the european commission has come under political pressure. the current hungarian government is working to ensure that a country that is indebted, vulnerable and barely able to withstand the negative effects of global economic changes as it was in 2010 remains a functioning eu member state. i reject the double standard that after the events of 2006, the left-wing parties and the international press did not speak out against the then socialist government, and now they are spreading uninformed and baseless slander against my country. the country is currently struggling financially, and the government is trying to secure a loan agreement. the financial sector appears to be a new branch of power in european decision-making, since the application of article 7 of the lisbon treaty would lead to the suspension of the payment of eu aid to hungary. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in conclusion, i would stress that this is no longer about accepting european values, but about the political power and expansion of money.
in writing. - we must all stand together for our country and the hungarian government! i firmly reject the resolution of the socialist, liberal, green and communist groups condemning hungary, whose text is full of untrue allegations and malicious accusations. what happened in the european parliament today is unacceptable and shameful. it pains me to see this play today, which clearly evokes the mood of a conceptual lawsuit.
in writing. − my vote in favour of the adoption of the resolution is clear, since all the statements contained and referred to in it give rise to serious concerns. there is no doubt about the achievements of the eu-russia political and economic relationship so far, but the public mood of the past period, the individual investigations, reports and accounts, as well as the attitude towards syria (un veto and arms sales) lead to very serious conclusions. the forthcoming russian presidential election and the campaign that preceded it certainly play a role, but the eu cannot ignore the fact that political pluralism, the integrity of elections, the prospect of intimidation, restrictions on freedom of expression related to sexual orientation or gender identity, or other anti-democratic steps would lead to a serious undermining of the achievements and practices of human rights. russia must take a clear and unequivocal position on the syrian issue, as its current behaviour may create uncertainty about joint action based on the arab league proposals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of approving the agreement because i believe that it would help the eu to promote economic reforms in morocco and to develop a more advanced trading system in the region. of course, the union would also benefit from the agreement, because it would significantly increase our exports and open up the community's markets to the arab spring countries. our goal is to become a dominant player in the region. this agreement could open the door to the mediterranean markets.
in writing. − i agreed to condemn the violence in syria in its entirety and to urge common european action to put an end to it. the violence against civilians in syria since march 2011 violates every aspect of humanity. today, the death toll has reached 6,000, according to un estimates, and is rising by the day. among the many horrors, one that hurts me the most is that according to a unicef report, 400 children and adolescents are now among the victims. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and punishment of offenders against women and children. these crimes are the most serious violations of human rights and children's rights in all their aspects, and it is now essential that the european union acts as quickly and decisively as possible in this regard. in order to overcome the situation in syria, i consider it positive that the arab league is unanimous in condemning the events taking place in that country, and therefore europe must continue to take its measures in a united manner to prevent further aggression.
in writing. − the european union considers human rights to be universal and indivisible rights and is active in their enforcement and protection within its borders and in its relations with third countries. human rights have been enshrined in detailed legislation by the union, which i recognise and support. that is why i voted for the motion for a resolution. the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs visited our parliament in december 2011 and presented her declaration that put human rights and democracy at the heart of the eu's foreign policy. in this connection, i would also draw attention to the point in this document which emphasises the active participation of the union in the work of the united nations human rights council (unhcr). i regret that the high representative for foreign affairs will not be attending the next meeting. of the countries with a problematic human rights situation, the democratic republic of congo is particularly well known to me. based on my personal experience of election observation in november 2011, i consider the presence of an independent human rights expert in the country to be indispensable.
in writing. − the union recognises the importance of the participation of people with disabilities in the life of their community. blind and partially sighted persons have the right to have access to books in a form in which they can understand the contents. i supported the adoption of a binding wipo treaty regulating the ownership of books and other printed products produced for them. as a lawyer, i am aware of the unfortunate problem that there is currently no international legal standard on the targeted exceptions applicable to cross-border trade in copyright in printed products tailored to the needs of the blind and visually impaired. i also voted in favour of the european parliament's 2011 report on unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries, in which we already called on the commission to support the adoption of a binding wipo treaty. while audio books provide a partial solution for the disabled, reading braille books by themselves can be a much greater experience.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion because i welcome any initiative which helps to resolve the asymmetrical dependencies between the union and the pan-euro-mediterranean countries. as the eu will remain the dominant trading partner in the region - albeit only because of its geographical location - any initiative that facilitates the smooth running of trade relations is essential. an important feature of the proposal is the increase in efficiency that can be achieved by harmonising standards and measurements in the countries concerned. these and other provisions can help to create a much more favourable investment climate.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the future of global environmental and security surveillance (gmes) as i believe it is important to maintain an already established eu-wide earth observation system. by comprehensively examining the global environmental and security situation in five areas - land, sea, air, emergency response and security - gmes helps europe to respond in advance to any adverse environmental and security policy changes. furthermore, the system, by virtue of its characteristic of providing basic services accessible to private individuals, can also promote european and national innovation. the reason is that the funding framework is only provided until 2013, after which time not only the material and intellectual energy invested in the system would be wasted, but also our common aspiration to develop a branch of european space research. that is why i thought it was important to support the resolution on gmes.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, parliament is commemorating the 101st international women’s day by putting two very important reports on its agenda: on equality between women and men in the european union and on women in political decision-making. the goal that equal work deserves equal pay, set more than one and a half centuries ago by the protesting female labourers of new york, is still valid today. women earn 15% less in the european union and, although more than half of the total voting population is female, they only share 10% of the global income. in addition to eliminating the gender pay gap, still pending are the proper recognition and reinforcement of women’s role in families and enforcing the principle of equal treatment. it is unacceptable that being a woman and being a mother still constitute a disadvantage and a risk poverty factor in 21st century europe. besides the importance – as commissioner reding recalled – of the presence of highly qualified women in leading positions in the public and private sector, much more emphasis should also be placed on improving the situation of vulnerable women, such as single mothers or orphan girls, elderly, minority and immigrant women, mothers of large families and those who interrupted their studies because of childbirth, as they are especially exposed to the risk of poverty and multiplied discrimination. for them the glass ceiling is much thicker than we would think. women in ethnic minorities, especially roma women in europe, have completely different problems from their male counterparts or the majority of women and find themselves in an especially vulnerable position when it comes to child care and state child-care facilities. this crisis compels us to take into account, at once and seriously, the economic importance of gender equality because gender-based exclusion is not only unfair – as we always say – but offsets the economy as well. member states and the private sector should be encouraged to integrate gender experts into their crisis management. all the political groups in this parliament are agreed that, in spite of the programmes set up in the last few years, no real achievement has really been made when it comes to equal opportunities. although both of the reports ask questions that address many of the issues – and, as some of them come under the principle of subsidiarity, many colleagues are finding it difficult to agree with them – we in the ppe still believe that the questions raised during the discussions of the two reports are extremely important and should be kept at the top of the european agenda.
madam president, some of you, hopefully very few people, might wonder why we are talking about gender equality when we have just celebrated international women’s day last week and when we also have the crisis to deal with. the reason is that, even though there have been developments, and goals have been achieved, a lot still needs to be done when it comes to gender equality. i will not let anyone use the crisis as an excuse for not doing this. the gender pay gap remains at an unacceptable level, gender-based violence is still taking thousands of victims every year, sexual and reproductive rights are threatened, women have difficulties on the labour market – just to give you a few examples. i am asking for a clear commitment from the commission and from the member states to change these unacceptable conditions. clear commitment in my understanding means binding measures and quotas. that is what i have been calling for, for a long while now. it is true that it will take some political will. this is why i say that we need more women in decision-making positions. i do not expect men to fully grasp our difficulties and i do not require them to do so. we will work with them in our common interest. all we need is the possibility to do so at regional, national and european level. commissioner reding, let us have the campaign, as we had with margot wallström in 2009; let us have the campaign on parity, because this is a great example for european citizens that we are for women, for men, and for equal treatment for women and men. i believe that we can conduct a very good campaign. it is good for us; it is good for europe, because if you educate a man you simply educate the man; if you educate the woman, you educate society. that is what we badly need.
i want to speak hungarian. the report rightly points out that there are groups within the women's movement that are severely disadvantaged, disenfranchised. the problem for me is that it is not right, from a professional perspective of women's rights, that while the report lists women from ethnic minorities, it does not list women from indigenous national minorities. the library has a literature of women from indigenous national minorities suffering all the types of discrimination that indigenous national minorities generally suffer in a significant way. let me give you two examples from europe, and i would like to ask the authors of this report if they are familiar with these examples. upland areas, hungarian minority: language law. hungarian women suffer from the disadvantage and violation of human rights, that they cannot use their own language before the authorities, in healthcare, much more than men. after all, women are the ones who are the most involved in health care, with children, with the elderly, with taking their relatives to various health services. he's probably doing the family's business before the authorities. my second question is whether the house, or indeed commissioner reding, is aware that a 99-year-old woman in slovakia has now been deprived of her slovak citizenship simply because she decided to take up hungarian citizenship, taking advantage of the legal possibility, given that she is hungarian. we talk so much about the right to sexual identity, why shouldn't someone have the right to a national identity? and in particular, do we know how badly it affects women?
the single market, the free movement of capital, services and labour is one of the union's most important achievements. more and more cross-border relationships are being established, both in the personal and business spheres. this requires, on the one hand, the settlement of cross-border civil, commercial and family disputes at the level of the member states and, on the other hand, the mutual recognition of judgments and decisions of the courts of the member states. but freedom of movement also requires that european citizens have confidence in the legal certainty of each member state, in the readiness of the law enforcement authorities, in the independence of the courts and in the independence of the courts from political influence. it is therefore important to know each other's legal systems, to know common european standards and directives for lawyers, and to apply them properly. as the shadow rapporteur on the 2014-2020 justice programme, i consider it important that sufficient and well-spent resources are available to train judges, lawyers and to build this trust, to guarantee the conditions. lawyers should know and apply eu law, and should feel that they can embrace both the letter and the spirit of eu law.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 march 2012.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues.
thank you for the first time you've given me the floor as interim president. an important pan-european issue is whether countries that are already in a difficult budgetary and economic situation should be punished by withdrawing cohesion aid. obviously, financial discipline is something that all governments must observe. but even if a government deserves sanctions, the withdrawal of cohesion policy funds punishes municipalities, regions, businesses, the population, and is therefore unjust. i find it unacceptable and unfair that the european commission has proposed to suspend almost 500 million euros of aid to hungary. will the commission penalise spain in the same way as it did hungary in the context of the excessive deficit procedure? the european commission cannot be double-minded! don't get me wrong. i don't want spain to be punished, quite the opposite! i fear that the council of finance ministers meeting tomorrow will not have more economic sanity and political wisdom than the european commission has had in its previous decisions.
that concludes the agenda item.
the next item is the report by sven giegold, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a supplement to the statute of the european cooperative society with regard to employee participation (2011/2116 ((ini))
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report by luigi berlinguer, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for the bologna process (2011/2180(ini)).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
i focused on the 2011-2012 session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 11.00 p.m.)
mr president, the decision of the european council to endorse serbia’s candidacy has a two-fold significance. with respect to serbia, it marks the definitive end to the aftermath of the wars of the yugoslav succession, and the lingering assumption widely held at the time that the serbs were somehow the hereditary villains of the balkans. with the acceptance of serbia’s candidacy, that particular canard has been laid to rest. serbia can now be regarded as having returned to the european family and this has its long-term significance. after all, stability in south-eastern europe is inconceivable without serbia – and stability here has to extend to all policy areas, notably crime. without serbia’s full commitment in the fight against organised crime, the balkans would continue to constitute an easy prey for transnational mafias. but the step has a second, possibly greater significance. it makes it clear that eu enlargement, though moving forward only slowly, has not stalled. this obviously has implications for the rest of south-eastern europe. what is equally noteworthy is that, despite the economic crisis, the eu continues its commitment to enhancing the stability of its neighbourhood, relying on soft power to achieve this. the encouragement of the countries of the eastern partnership and the planned elaboration of a road map are evidently steps in the direction of ensuring that objective. all these strategies and policy objectives, however, depend on overcoming the long drawn-out economic crisis, the central concern of the summit. here the decisions point in the right direction and it is absolutely crucial that fiscal discipline goes hand in hand with the recognition of the importance of economic growth. in the absence of this, the eu will find itself much less attractive and with much reduced soft power.
for the first time in two years, the european council did not deal with firefighting, but the fire was not yet out. europe is still in a danger zone, because we will not be able to get out of the debt spiral without economic growth. a lot has been said: the development of the internal market, the early introduction of eurobonds, but i am convinced that we also need a comprehensive eu growth programme, an eu development package to stimulate job creation. on the other hand, there is a fundamental structural problem with the way the euro works. it has been found that the euro, as a single currency, is not suited to managing the economies of countries with different levels of competitiveness. the economic difficulties of greece, ireland, spain, portugal, the near bankruptcy of their governments, are not only the fault of their governments, but also the failure of the euro as a whole. the euro therefore needs to be fundamentally reformed!
in writing. at the last summit, a majority of member states signed the fiscal compact, which is responsible for the stability of economic and monetary union and for its even closer coordination. this was not only another intergovernmental agreement, but also the culmination of a very long process in which the european parliament provided key support and expertise. however, it is important that, in addition to the rules of the common economic policy, which clearly provide a clear framework for the budgetary policies of the member states, the european union should in future assess the member states' actions in the field of common economic governance in a transparent manner, on the basis of criteria that are quantified in the stability and growth pact. the council conclusions also indicate that fiscal consolidation should be implemented in a differentiated manner, taking into account the specific circumstances of the member states. it is therefore unacceptable to make an unfair assessment of the performance of individual member states on the basis of subjective factors, without recognising that the tendency of the economic policy of a member state is to avoid austerity in the medium and long term and to pursue the commonly agreed objectives of reducing the budget deficit and gradually reducing the public debt. if the successfully established economic policy system is operated irresponsibly, with unnecessary differences between member states and with constant tension, the credibility of the whole european institutional system and the sustainability of the common economic management system are at stake.
in writing. – i am particularly worried after the signature of the fiscal compact during last european council. we, socialists and democrats, have been defending from the start balanced budgets and fiscal responsibility, but this cannot be the only reaction to the dreadful crisis europe is facing. while we witness every day the dramatic social consequences of measures focused exclusively on austerity, we urgently need concrete measures to restore growth and tackle unemployment. i would like to emphasise the issue of youth unemployment, which is now reaching an average rate of more than 22% in europe. this is unacceptable. that is why the party of european socialists, with the support of the s&d group, has launched a campaign to tackle youth unemployment, calling for binding measures and sufficient financial support to ensure the access of young people to quality jobs. therefore i strongly hope that the commission and the member states will take into consideration our demand to introduce a youth guarantee that would prevent any young european from being without a job or training for more than four months. how can we prepare the future of europe if we do not do everything we can to ensure a decent future for our children?
i want to speak hungarian. in 2005, as a lawyer fighting for abused women and their children, for their lives and physical integrity, i campaigned for many of these abused women and children. one of the husbands was offended, filed a defamation suit against me. nothing happened until i was elected to the european parliament. in 2010, the process started all of a sudden. a year and a half ago, they asked me to suspend my immunity. the european parliament has been sleeping on this matter ever since. what's so important that it's suddenly on the ballot from yesterday to today? why can't i have a say in this? and don't you think it's tasteless that you're voting for a case against a women's rights activist and a lawyer who fights for abused women at a time when two very important women's issues... (the president withdrew the floor from the member. ) sorry, but that's a lot of money to pay for a two-minute speech, right? don't you think it's tasteless to come in here just to vote and not even listen to a two-minute speech? shame on you. *** other
i voted against the report by mrs veld on equality for women because it uses the suffering of a mass of disenfranchised women as an alibi for two shameful purposes. one of the aims of this report is to raise huge additional money for those close to the fire for their friends for completely unnecessary projects to be funded by the european union. while abused women and their children flee without any legal protection in hungary, for example. disfranchised workers in the various multinationals, the female workers, they don't get any legal protection. so this whole thing is a big fake. the other big lie is that through this report, using women who have been disenfranchised as an alibi, he is trying to push his own agenda to legalize prostitution, expand abortion and force gay marriage on member states. nothing proves the lie more than the enthusiasm with which the authors of this report raised their hands in the air when it came to a witch hunt against a women's rights activist.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to thank mr lechner, because we can all be proud of the enormous work he has done, especially since this is mr lechner's last report, given that he will leave the ep in march this year, after 14 years. i am pleased that we have the opportunity today to vote on this subject which has been long awaited by our citizens. as i live in sopron, a border town, i am particularly aware of the administrative and enforcement difficulties that citizens often face in cross-border cases. this unfortunately reduces legal certainty, which is nevertheless of paramount importance in the field of succession law. i supported the report because its adoption will significantly simplify the handling of cross-border succession cases, giving citizens a secure, predictable basis for the settlement of their legacies, saving them a significant amount of time, energy and money. although the report has not been the subject of much international media scrutiny, i think that votes like this really show the value of our work. we meps are here to address these issues and to represent the real interests of european citizens! we represent them, rather than debating the unfounded accusations that are heated up by certain political interest groups and affect only certain member states!
in writing. − i supported the report 'the contribution of the eu institutions to consolidating and advancing the bologna process', as high quality higher education is one of the cornerstones of the future of the european union. in my view, the objective of the report, which is to provide compatible higher education that is attractive to students from outside the member states, is an important step towards achieving employment mobility with appropriate language competences. this kind of mobility leads to a significant reduction in unemployment, including frictional unemployment. it should also be noted that the cooperation resulting from the process makes a significant contribution to the exchange and exploitation of experience and to research and development. it is therefore of the utmost importance that universities in the member states are able to establish appropriate cooperation with higher education institutions in other non-member countries, and that these links can lead to the promotion and dissemination of culture. it is very important that quality education and the opportunities offered by the bologna process are made available to citizens of all member states. i therefore consider that it is worth considering further the development of a uniform, objective selection system for students who may continue their studies abroad.
blue-card question. – mr swoboda, have you in the socialist party considered the root cause of this problem? have you considered that, when you have to justify the existence of the very badly functioning european union, you claim that it is because otherwise there would be tension and maybe even war among nations? do you recognise that instead of more peace, more friendship there is increasing tension among the nations of europe? why is this? it is because your european union is a totally artificial malignant institution that forces on european nations very malignant economic policies and a lack of self-determination. that is the root cause, mr swoboda.
in writing. the following facebook post was sent by a friend of mine the other day: 'i lived in the netherlands for 20 years. the dutch are very tolerant by birth, it was unthinkable even then. all this is now due to the right-wing radical trend.' he was reacting to the news that geert wilders' freedom party had launched a website encouraging people from eastern and central europe to report their employment in the netherlands. four years ago, the foreign minister of the right-wing dutch government distanced himself from a wilders-party film that denigrated islam. the government was not yet dependent on a radical, extremist party. but the right-wing minority cabinet today refuses to condemn the creation of the website. because your fate depends on the support of geert wilders and his associates. the dutch government knows very well that the 200,000 eastern europeans who have been legally working in the netherlands since may 2007 are not adding to the problems, but on the contrary, are contributing to the well-being of the people living in the country. a polish or hungarian worker who works permanently in the netherlands contributes 24,000 euros a year to the treasury's revenues, according to dutch economic researchers. we do not just expect the dutch government to condemn all the anti-foreigner, hate-mongering and discrimination of the freedom party. it also aims to provide the public with factual information on how foreigners, including immigrants from eastern and central europe, contribute to the country's growth.
in writing. we regret to inform you that the dutch prime minister did not appear today at the debate on the extremist dutch website that insults eastern european citizens. while european liberals attack populist governments for partisan purposes, citing fundamental rights, the liberal dutch prime minister openly collaborates with the extremist freedom party, which maintains the website. we find it deeply outrageous that the website of the freedom party incites the dutch population against eastern european citizens on the basis of origin. such manifestations and their tacit tolerance undermine trust between member states at a time when solidarity needs to be strengthened. you can't hide behind freedom of speech when other citizens' fundamental rights to privacy are trampled on. we cannot tolerate the humiliation of human dignity and the questioning of equality of origin. we cannot tolerate openly insulting the citizens of eastern europe. the dutch website case is not an abstract case but a concrete case where fundamental rights are violated in practice. but the liberal prime minister is not shutting down the website, despite widespread international calls. such behaviour undermines eu integration and weakens the belief in common values.
in writing. – there has been an alarming and accelerating increase in the amount of discriminatory online content in the past few years. according to the estimates of the simon wiesenthal centre, there are approximately ten thousand online groups, blogs, chat rooms, videos and games that were created by racist, homophobic and anti-semitic persons, the most serious of which are of course those operated by terrorist groups and other criminal associations. the commission and member states must consider developing a code of conduct for combating online incitement of hatred, and modifying their legislation to effectively respond to the new challenges of information technology. first, those websites that are fundamentally discriminatory in nature or instigate crimes need to be shut down; the national and international procedural rules for doing this need to be properly established. second, discriminatory content appearing in mainstream websites and most typically in social networks must also be rejected. although these pages have so many visitors that supervising them is almost impossible, authorities need to reach agreements with content providers and server hosts to at least limit such activities. third, it must be considered that certain websites might be discriminatory by negligence, such as official and administrative pages of public interest that are non-accessible for people with disabilities.
i have a simple question for the european commission: in your opinion, is there any reason for hungary to remain a member of the european union? why do i ask? in the last debate my dutch colleague said that they, the dutch, are fed up with eastern european workers, that is, hungarian workers. i'll report, and we're fed up with the dutch and other western european colonizers. similarly, we are tired of the process that began when the european union forced hungary into the union on humiliating terms and with false promises. then it went on to total colonization, which you could call the free flow of capital, which was one way, and the free flow of labor, which was the other way. there are many ways to describe what we call colonization. he went on to accuse hungary of various crimes for various reasons. it was confirmed today by the bold decision of the finance ministers to suspend cohesion funding. do you think that after this, you can also annex hungarian land on april 30, 2014, when the moratorium expires? have you heard of 1956 and the hungarian people's love of freedom? (the president withdrew the floor from the member. )
in writing. the proper allocation of the 2013 budget is particularly important for both the member states and the eu as a whole, as the impact of the crisis continues to be felt and the urgency for effective, concrete action is growing. one of the most important issues is the issue of smes. they are the engine of our economy, as they generate the vast majority of new jobs. our europe 2020 strategy sets out that the union's fundamental objectives are to create and maintain economic growth, jobs and competitiveness. i believe that we need to provide significant resources for smes, to provide the right environment to help start-ups. boosting and enlivening the sme sector will result in higher labour market demand. in this context, the focus should be on a topic that is also relevant, namely young people, who are the future of the eu. the funds allocated to education and research and development and innovation are also indirectly allocated to smes. if you think about how many entrepreneurial-minded young people there are, and how many of them are willing to start their own businesses. instead, they are profiting from their creative, innovative ideas in different multinational companies, which is a barrier to the eu's competitiveness. there are a number of alternatives that can help boost the sector, such as investing in business incubation centres, whether it be start-up centres that help and support start-ups, or technology centres, which are the right kind of community for innovative, technology-oriented companies. to do so, the budget needs new resources, which may be the issuance of eurobonds or the introduction of a transaction tax.
in writing. the 2013 budget of the european union is the closure of the current seven-year financial framework. member states will be reaching their peak in the number of catch-up programmes this year, with the largest amounts to be paid out now. at the same time, the 2013 eu budget will also reflect the views of the institutions on the future, as, in the event of no agreement, this year will be the base for the next period. the european parliament sees the european budget as a means of overcoming the crisis, as a motor for growth and job creation: we want a strong europe, guided by common policies and adequately resourced. some member states would reduce their own contributions in order to meet short-term objectives in the interests of a smaller eu budget. the risks are high: a decline in european solidarity, a loss of trust in the union, a turn away from the eu institutions. in the long term, this could even threaten the very existence of the union. in the medium term, the success of the europe 2020 programme will also be called into question if the financial means necessary to achieve it are not allocated to it. we must not hesitate to show our citizens that we live in a union which uses its resources wisely and well in order to achieve common goals and to strengthen the european idea.
mr president, i think this is a thorough and illuminating report, yet the topic of this debate has a decidedly bizarre aspect. there is no agreement – it has been very clear – on what the country that we are discussing should actually be called. i am going to call it ‘macedonia’. of course it could always be called ‘fyrom/macedonia’, but if we try to look at the issue in the round we can see the absurdity of it all. i cannot think of a single precedent for when a country has come under pressure regarding what it calls itself, in sum because one of its neighbours decided one day to object to the name ‘macedonia’. note that the name never bothered this neighbour while macedonia was a part of yugoslavia. this would be weird enough in itself, but to use the name issue to deny macedonia the right to open negotiations for eu membership can properly be called inexcusable. for one, i certainly do not see the name question as one of the copenhagen criteria. worse, the dispute brings the entire enlargement process into disrepute. it really is time to find a solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i cannot do any better than to quote shakespeare. ‘what’s in a name? that which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet’.
i fully agree with my colleagues rouček and schöpflin and as a hungarian and central european i too see no other chance than historic reconciliation. i find it regrettable that greece has not shown a willingness to compromise in recent years. therefore, macedonian citizens have already started to lose their faith in european integration. this paved the way for a nationalist-populist government which, taking some bad examples from e.g. the right-wing hungarian government significantly restricted freedom of the press, used independent institutions for political purposes, and ignored minority rights. i fully agree with mr brok that the ethnic violence we have seen in parts of macedonia for the past week is a matter of very serious concern. all the minorities, the bulgarians, the romanians, the albanians... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. i am pleased that the draft resolution focuses on issues such as the peaceful coexistence of the macedonian peoples and the situation of national minorities. the text includes a section on the significance of the ohrid convention, signed 10 years ago, which was based on the principle of mutual respect for national identity and laid the foundation for the settlement of interethnic conflicts. the laws that have been adopted and amended in the spirit of the convention are welcome. however, as i have stressed in other speeches, all laws are worth what they actually do in practice. the basic condition for peaceful coexistence is the proper upbringing of the rising generation, the promotion of sensitivity and positive relations with neighbours. a new generation raised in this spirit is the key to the emergence of an independent and open multicultural civil society. it must be ensured that every child has access to education in his or her mother tongue from appropriate textbooks. but it is equally important that, in addition to his own language and culture, he should learn the language, culture and history of his traditional neighbours from an early age. the pre-accession facility should emphasise support for such mutual understanding projects and existing civil society organisations. the establishment of a historical committee of experts from the peoples living together can also be a means of building understanding and good neighbourly relations between neighbouring nations. all this leads to the prevention of discrimination on the basis of nationality, mutual acceptance and the assumption of ethnic identity.
mr president, may i thank, among others, doris pack, for her great report. first, let me underline that i firmly believe in the european future and prospects of bosnia and herzegovina, along with its western balkan neighbours. i also welcome the recent appointment of mr bevanda as prime minister, which puts an end to 15 months of political crisis. however, though progress has been made, much remains to be done regarding fundamental reforms with a view to eu integration. i would like to insist here on the human and social rights issues. though human rights and protection of minorities are broadly ensured, constitutional changes still have to be made regarding compliance with the european convention on human rights as well as the effective implementation of major human rights conventions. moreover, though state-level anti-discrimination legislation has been put in place, its implementation remains very weak, particularly with regard to the protection of women against violence and the social protection of children. finally, i would like to highlight my concerns regarding the number of divided schools and mono-ethnic schools. i know that the scars of the past take time to heal, but i believe that much progress needs to be made in terms of inter-ethnic relations.
in writing. − i would like to remind honourable members that the issue of judicial training cooperation was raised at the hungarian initiative at eu level and was a priority in our presidency programme. the problem in this area is that, despite the acceleration of eu legislation, a significant proportion of national judges in the member states have a rather limited knowledge of eu sources of law and do not speak foreign languages to the extent that they know the legal language of other member states. as a first step, training should be made available to eu legal experts and a system should be established to ensure multilingual training. in the absence of new institutions, the starting point could be the creation of cooperation between existing national training institutions and a greater emphasis on the teaching of comparative and international legal studies. the european area of justice must be based on a common judicial culture, which in my view is based on mutual knowledge of national judicial systems, in addition to union law.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution on 'child labour in the cocoa sector' as the protection of children is of paramount importance not only in europe but also worldwide. the european union must therefore use all possible means, whether it is to bring the international agreement under the roof, to develop economic alternatives for the countries concerned or, ultimately, to apply economic pressure. i believe that governments should use legal means to force the public to make schooling a primary obligation for children, since education is one of the foundations of development. where governments fail to do so on their own, it is the task of the international community to put pressure on governments to do so. i consider the withdrawal of the trade preferences contained in the resolution as part of the review of the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp) and the legally binding and sanctioning clauses attached to trade agreements to be appropriate tools for this.
in writing. − diabetes, one of the most common of non-communicable diseases, is directly responsible for the death of 325 000 eu-citizens every year and the shocking decrease by 5-20 years of the life expectancy for 32 million people, earning its nickname as the silent assassin. diabetes and the related impaired glucose intolerance demands more than 10% of total national healthcare expenditures and researchers expect a 16,6% increase in the number of people living with diabetes by 2030 and consequently a growing burden on health care systems. despite these alarming figures, however, only 14 of the 27 eu member states have developed their national programmes to tackle the disease and its consequences and despite the initiatives of the austrian presidency in 2006, the european parliament and the un, there is still no eu level strategy to address the issue. the commission must develop a targeted strategy for the effective prevention, diagnosis, management and research of diabetes and to present specific recommendations for member states to support the development of national diabetes programmes. reliable data collection, standardized criteria for data processing and health education are also necessary, since diabetes can be effectively addressed by identifying the risk factors and promoting prevention strategies.
in writing. − i support the integration of the western balkan countries into the eu and expect the same from the representatives of the other member states, since their leaders committed themselves to their accession in the council as far back as 2003. the enlargement policy anticipates the process of social transformation, i.e. it contributes to the stability of the country. leaving the aspiring countries to their own devices poses a security risk in the region. in the case of the republic of macedonia, we should also remember that the commitment should bear fruit, otherwise the union's credibility will suffer great losses. the country fulfils the political conditions, as the commission has acknowledged. bilateral issues have no place in the accession process. the eu should seek to contribute to the reduction of tensions with the republic of macedonia, which has a high proportion of ethnic minorities of albanian origin. the macedonian public is still more in favour of accession than against, and it is not too late to start negotiations.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that macedonia was the first country to be granted candidate status. the role of the balkan region is of crucial importance for the european union and is particularly important for hungary. that's why we must not leave any country behind. in recent years, macedonia has made a number of efforts and has fought hard to become a member of the european union. the market economy is being developed in line with eu standards. the changes in the judiciary and public administration, the decentralisation of power and the efforts in the field of human rights all demonstrate the country's commitment to europe. it is important to mention that there are still ethnic problems, for example the situation of the bulgarian minority, and there is still work to be done in combating corruption and making public expenditure transparent, but the country is on the right track and i am confident that the european union will be a partner in taking all the necessary measures. i do find it sad, however, that a name dispute can prevent the future of a country from developing. we need a much broader approach than that.
in writing. − although the former yugoslav republic of macedonia took over the presidency of the decade for roma inclusion in the second half of last year, and some minimal progress has been reported in enhancing the school performance of roma children, the inclusion process of the country’s most vulnerable minority group remained unacceptably slow. there is an astonishing twenty-fold over-representation of roma children in special schools, the lack of personal documents and the extremely high unemployment still remains an unresolved problem and the percentage of children living under the poverty line even increased, reaching a shocking level of 37%. discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin is still wide-spread, especially affecting roma women and reports of police brutality and the use of excessive force against roma are a concern. it is necessary to promote dialogue between local authorities, judicial bodies, police and the roma communities in order to abolish discrimination, to improve confidence and to combat ethnic profiling. the general lack of coordination and evaluation mechanisms can only be remedied by joining the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies and elaborating a national long-term strategy for roma inclusion, including the necessary cross-sector, complex and territorially targeted development projects.
in writing. − we are very pleased that iceland has managed to steer the negotiations in the right direction, although some chapters are still to be agreed. iceland is an integral part of the accession process, but it is important to emphasise that we have a duty to take account of the country's specificities and expectations within the eu framework. the rapid resolution of the fisheries issue is also important because the fisheries policy of iceland, which is radically different from that of the european union and accounts for 5% of the icelandic economy, is treated as a matter of great importance by the population. this is an important issue for both sides and can go a long way towards ensuring that the population, which is otherwise anti-eu, does not have a negative attitude towards membership. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the following areas: i am confident that the danish presidency and the european commission will do everything possible to promote these negotiations. iceland has a lot to offer the eu, and the eu has a lot to offer iceland. the country has always been an integral part of europe. iceland's accession negotiations are not like those seen in recent years, as the island is a member of the schengen area, the european economic area, and also cooperates with the eu in many respects and applies its legislation. accordingly, iceland's ambitions must be taken very seriously. i welcome the opening of negotiations between the commission and iceland and wish them every success in launching the accession process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2011 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. i am committed to the integration of a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina, and i agree with the accession prospects set out in the document. particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the western balkans are not left behind in the process of european integration. it is a great step forward that the bosnian leadership has realised that it does not want to lose its european perspective. i look forward to the new government's future actions. i stress the need to strengthen education and training, reform the judicial system, fight corruption, human trafficking and money laundering. i agree that the activities of the eu police mission will be transferred to ipa-funded support projects after its termination. the inclusion of croatia will strengthen the country's commitment to integration, as it is closely linked to the neighbouring state by the presence of the croatian minority.
in writing. − hungary, as it has said so many times, is committed to the integration of the balkans into the european union. that is why it is welcome that a new federal government was formed in bosnia and herzegovina in february, 16 months after the elections. the government is in a difficult position. it's got to get three entities to talk and work together. ethnic and national differences still divide the country today. we must prevent all forms of extremism, because we must not become involved in ethnic disputes. we must not allow these contradictions to hold back the progress of the country. the rights of croats and other minorities living in the central part of the country are an essential condition for accession. it is important to transpose eu laws and rules more effectively into national legislation and to establish an institutional framework that promotes democracy and stability and european union integration. the adoption of the state aid and census laws and the government's priority to eu integration are welcome. however, it is necessary to amend the constitution in accordance with the european convention on human rights. now that serbia has been granted eu candidate status and croatia will join next year, the european union will share a border with bosnia and herzegovina. it is therefore important for the country to take the necessary steps that will give new hope and new impetus to the country's development and its integration into the european union. i am confident that the eu's balkan policy, including the candidate status of bosnia and herzegovina, will be successful.
in writing. − bosnia and herzegovina has developed its own national roma strategy under the framework of which it has implemented four action plans in the priority areas of the decade for roma inclusion. despite some progress in the fields of housing and education, however, the situation of the country’s roma communities in terms of health care and education still remains alarming. there are significant structural problems with regard to the sustainability and transparency of action plans, the coordination among stakeholders at state and entity level, the allocation of funds and the monitoring of projects, in brief: despite the promising beginnings, the decade initiative ran out of momentum. moreover, the state-level social inclusion strategy for 2008-13 – recognizing roma as a priority group – is still not adopted. the government, entities and local authorities must sign up for the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies and after the expiration of the current and unsuccessful strategy, bosnia and herzegovina should develop and submit to the commission its own complex roma inclusion strategy up to 2020 with special regard to improving the cooperation among bodies and policy networks, eliminating parallel, overlapping or conflicting efforts, and creating synergies.
there have been many legitimate criticisms, but i would caution against using a didactic tone, because it is counterproductive. there is no real equality of opportunity in the electoral law, the party law, access to the media, as the elections have shown. but the fact that the russian president is called vladimir putin, the european union must cooperate with him! whether putin's reforms succeed in the political system or in the economy is primarily in russia's interest, but it is also in the interest of the european union. the putin regime has exhausted its political reserves. we need more press freedom, we need more democracy. but what's even more problematic is that economically, russia is lagging behind the other bric countries. if the russian economy is not modernized, if the russian economy is not developed, there will be tensions that threaten social stability. the european union has an interest in russia being stable and developing.
six motions for resolutions (see minutes) were tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 15 march 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
next item statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy the situation in nigeria
in writing. i welcome the fact that the report has taken into account to a large extent the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development which i prepared. european agriculture has a significant contribution to make to reducing the eu's carbon emissions, while creating new jobs, especially in rural areas. farmers can contribute to climate objectives by producing renewable energy, in particular biogas, while supplementing their income. the use of agricultural products for energy purposes must be such as not to endanger food security or cause food price increases. union policies need to be coordinated to increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions. therefore, only energy-efficient investments, in particular those aimed at the use of renewable energy, should be eligible for support from the rural development and other community financial funds in the future. one of the biggest problems farmers face is rising energy prices. increasing energy efficiency and the energy use of agricultural and forestry by-products could reduce their dependence on fossil fuels. this would not only help european farmers to meet climate protection objectives, but also significantly improve their competitiveness.
in writing. the 6th world water forum is being held in marseille in parallel with the european parliament's plenary session. in the 21st century, the world's dwindling freshwater resources are increasingly being competed for by geographical regions and economic sectors. it is particularly important to reduce water use in the agricultural sector, which accounts for almost 80% of global water consumption. this requires the use of economical irrigation technologies, the development of drought-tolerant crop varieties and the introduction of fair but cost-saving pricing. that is why, in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, i will propose that support be given to irrigation systems that promote water saving. desertification is a particularly big problem in hungary as well. on the already dry little island sand dunes, groundwater levels have dropped five meters in the past two decades alone. this is partly due to human intervention, and partly due to climate change. we need to increase the recycling of water for agricultural purposes across the union. to do this, we need to work closely with israel, where recycling is at 75%. this is well above the eu leader spain's barely 25% share, while other eu member states, such as those in the mediterranean region, are far from even this level. hungary also has a lot of work to do in terms of water recycling. eu legislation should also encourage efficient water management and recycling, as this is the only way to ensure that european companies are internationally competitive in this strategically important area.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution of the european people's party on 'discriminatory websites and responses from governments', because all forms of discrimination and xenophobia are to be condemned. the dutch complaint is openly controversial in europe and encourages negative judgments based on national bias. this is incompatible with the values and objectives of the european union. i also agree with and emphasize the idea in the resolution that such an initiative could set a precedent throughout europe and even trigger similar initiatives in response. it is therefore very important that the website is shut down as soon as possible. the european union institutions, member states' governments and civil society organisations need to respond together to the economic, political and social challenges posed by migration within the union. citizens should be made aware of the benefits of migration within the member states and of the fact that, although each nation has a different culture and history, we all share the same european principles and values.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my congratulations to mr kacin. this is a thorough and cogent report. cooperation has been very good. serbia has been granted candidate status, and at the same time – this is important – elections are to be held in early may. so this report can serve as a guide for the next serbian government in its stance towards europe. a great deal has been done to make serbian accession feasible, and the country should receive due credit for all these efforts. however, as the report makes clear, this does not mean that all is done and dusted: far from it. there are many areas where the serbian system of government – and, for that matter, governance – demand a major overhaul before they meet the eu criteria. one of these areas is very serious. this is where legal provision is used, indeed abused, to eliminate competition and to stultify the market in favour of insiders. it is all the worse that this practice is undertaken in the name of the fight against organised crime. then there is kosovo. all candidate countries have to come to terms with their neighbours, whatever the antecedents. this means that serbia has to confront kosovo’s independence and abandon illusions that somehow, one day, kosovo will again be a part of the serbian state. it will not, however hard that may be to accept. thirdly, while serbia has taken a number of steps in the direction of providing equal status for its non-serbian minorities, its citizenship concept is not yet sufficiently inclusive to provide full rights to some non-serbian groups, notably the romanian speakers of the timok valley and the bulgarian minority. the model – the good model developed in vojvodina – of all minority councils should be extended to the rest of the country. the next government will have plenty on its plate.
mr. president, i have to go. we welcomed the fact that serbia has been granted candidate status, which should be followed by the opening of accession negotiations. we know this journey won't be easy. there is much to be done, but every step that is taken to meet the criteria, to build the rule of law, is somewhere in serbia that benefits people. it is an essential element of this report and i thank my colleague schöpflin and the rapporteur, mr kacin, for their openness and receptivity to the fact that, in view of the need to protect the rights of national minorities, this copenhagen criterion has been given due weight and attention in this report. i am particularly pleased that aspects of importance to the hungarian community in vojvodina have been included in the text in the form of expectations towards serbia, the observance of which can help these communities to prosper in their homeland and to have equal access to opportunities. it is important that serbia does not fall into the mistake of others, that only in order to join, only temporarily and in theory, it takes into account the interests of these national minorities, but makes it felt in practice, in everyday life, for those who live there. we'll have to keep an eye on that here.
mr. president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank mr jelko kacin for his report on enlargement. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the provisions of the document relating to the protection of minorities. the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria and the relevant provisions of the lisbon treaty was a crucial precondition for serbia's final accession to the eu on 1 march. both slovakia and romania, which have minority policy deficits, can learn from the consistency of the european council in protecting serbian minorities, including romanians and vlachs. the council conclusions and the motion for a resolution on serbia itself are intended to strengthen collective minority rights, not least by providing for the continuous monitoring of serbia's minority policy. we hungarians support serbia's accession to the european union, but at the same time we demand justice for the mass killings of minorities in the past, and community rights and autonomy for our hungarian community, which still lives there. in defending the interests of the serbian hungarians, we take the example of romania, which stood firmly with the romanians of the timok valley.
the european council granted candidate status to serbia ahead of the serbian parliamentary elections in may was crucial. the community has recognised the efforts made by serbia to fulfil the copenhagen criteria. it is of great importance for the stability of the whole of the balkans and the progress of serbia's integration is decisive. the system of protection of minorities that has been established in serbia is very important. many eu member states could be proud of the system of protection of minorities that serbia has established, but i would also like to draw the attention of our serbian friends to the fact that this requires adequate financial resources. as for kosovo, i urge the commission and the council not to impose unenforceable requirements on serbia. in order to move forward in serbia and kosovo, both sides must make appropriate concessions, not only to serbia but also to the albanians in kosovo.
my colleagues! i know at least two groups of people who wouldn't recognize the country we're talking about today. one such group is the hungarians living in serbia, who suffer continuously and systematically the most brutal human rights violations, including physical abuse, simply for the use of their mother tongue, hungarian. the other group of people, our fellow members of the council of europe, who held a similar debate and adopted a resolution condemning serbia for serious human rights violations, namely violations against indigenous national minorities. now it seems we're being very polite about not talking about it. in the short time available, let me mention the ethnic cleansing that is taking place, i.e. the forcible settlement of war refugees in the southern provinces among hungarians, the violation of the aforementioned linguistic rights, and let me demand for the hungarians territorial autonomy on the model of south tyrol.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i welcome the commission's enlargement report on serbia, which provides a thorough and comprehensive overview of the progress serbia has made so far. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that serbia became an official candidate on 1 march, demonstrating the eu's commitment to its eu prospects. i welcome all the steps taken by serbia and the many efforts it has made to meet the political copenhagen criteria. stabilisation of the country is key not only to ensuring the security of the western balkans but also to guaranteeing the security policy of the union. i would like to emphasise that further progress in serbia's integration process depends to a large extent on the speedy resolution of the remaining internal and external political and economic problems, such as the minority issue, the good neighbour policy or the maintenance of regional cooperation. in my view, the changes and reforms that have taken place in the country so far are in the right direction and the eu should provide all the necessary tools for the remaining measures.
in writing. serbia achieved a great success in march this year by being declared a candidate country for membership of the european union. this required belgrade to show the necessary willingness to compromise and agree with pristina on a number of important issues. the agreements serve to facilitate the daily lives of citizens on both sides of the border. the dialogue must continue and the agreements signed must be implemented as soon as possible. the approach of belgrade to the european union is good news for the hungarians of today and for hungary, which has an essential interest in being surrounded by democratic states of law with developed market economies. progress in the accession process of serbia and the other western balkan countries depends not only on the european union's ability to hold its own values and standards rigorously to account in the candidate countries, but also on its ability to consistently uphold them with its own member states. belgrade must apply more pressure than ever on the serbian forces in kosovo and bosnia to bring about reconciliation and normalization. i am confident that the forthcoming serbian elections will strengthen the democratic, pro-european political forces and allow serbia to move forward in the process of eu accession.
mr. president, i have to go. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, because the report before us, although primarily concerned with the governance framework and common regulation of listed companies, also places great emphasis on the extension of the code of conduct and on the requirement of a sufficient and appropriate level of support for the principle of 'fairness'. these are the priorities i have set out as econ's shadow rapporteur for the people's party. i am convinced that this will make the management system more flexible and more relevant to everyday life. the new rules are, however, consistent with the corporate governance system of financial services companies and support the setting of corporate conduct standards at national level. on its own initiative, the commission has proposed the development of a governance package that will bring together recognised best practices in order to ensure that smes, which are also the engines of the internal market, can operate within a more uniform framework. overall, this report is excellent, thorough, and i not only find it supportive, but recommend it for support.
mr. president, i have to go. the romanian national communist regime under ceauşescu abolished independent hungarian higher education in 1959. the new education law, however, allows hungarian youth in transylvania to study at three multicultural universities, independent hungarian faculties. the romanian leadership of the marosvásárhely university of medicine and pharmacy has been defying the law for almost a year and, with the support of the post-communist, chauvinist romanian parties, has been preventing the establishment of an independent hungarian university faculty. hungarian teachers are being intimidated and professor attila brassai, who gave information about illegal university conditions in strasbourg last november, has been disciplined. i ask president schulz, the parliament and the commission to protect the hungarian teachers in marosvásárhely and to support the legal measures of the ungureanu government against the obstruction of the post-communist political force, which is using anti-hungarian electoral campaign tools.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union.
my fellow members of parliament! the beneficiaries of the european union's food aid programme are not only the poor people who receive the food, but also the companies and businesses that receive these very large sums of money from public procurement. it doesn't matter who these companies are. i would urge my colleagues to look at the distribution of this money in their own member states. i did, and i got some pretty shocking results. hungary received nearly 4 billion forints in food aid, and a significant portion of this money was distributed among giant companies rather than small and medium-sized enterprises. just to give you some figures, gyermely corp. 660 million, diamant corp. 333 million forints. these two companies were among those that had been severely punished for cartel activity before. what is the interest of a member state in the fact that, while we are talking about supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, these giant mammoths are being given this public money? it would be very good if small farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises in any country of the european union did not feel that if they are not close to the fire, to power, to political and economic power, then they can only be losers, losers, as those farmers feel in hungary, for example, who fall off the public lands during the application process, because they can only be kissed, friends, just like the huge food aid money.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. food aid for the most deprived citizens is a successful programme of the european union. under the program, thousands of tons of basic foodstuffs, such as flour and sugar, are distributed to those in need each year. the measure also ensures that consumers receive high-quality and safe products produced locally by european farmers. however, the future of the programme is in jeopardy as some member states want to reduce the eu budget and therefore want to end food aid. in our opinion, this is unacceptable. the protracted economic crisis has created a growing need to support european citizens in need. i therefore welcome the european commission's intention to maintain this measure in the new budgetary period starting in 2014.
in writing. there are concerns that the current eu food aid scheme will be phased out after the completion of the implementation of the 2013 annual plan and that the planned budgetary cuts threaten the future of the programme. the right to food is one of our fundamental rights, and the union is not abandoning those who need our help the most. it is our duty, based on the principle of solidarity, to provide support to those in need. we must act decisively to ensure that the food aid programme is maintained, as it is more important than ever in the current economic crisis.
in writing. the european parliament has defended the eu's food aid programme for the next two years. as a result, hungary can spend more than huf 4 billion of the eur 500 million allocated to aid to help those in need. last year alone, thanks to the union, more than 3500 tonnes of food were distributed to the most deprived hungarians. this is particularly important in my country, where nearly 100,000 people are hungry and another million people are at risk of quality hunger. in the midst of the economic crisis and austerity measures, 18 million citizens in 20 eu member states are expected to need eu aid in 2012. italy, the largest recipient of food aid, receives almost €100 million from community funds. the debate should not therefore be about whether food aid is given in the context of social or agricultural policy! the cap has always included a number of social elements. it is our common responsibility, in the spirit of european solidarity, to ensure that those in need have access to food in times of scarcity. the food programme, however, reinforces the eu's bottom-line view. i therefore urge those member states who oppose the food programme and the european commission not to put obstacles in the way of the eu food fund in the future. i and the european parliament are determined to continue the aid programme to help tackle social inequalities beyond 2014.
the following point is inserted after point a7-0058/2012 of the report of ms iliana ivanova, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank (eib) (2011/2186 ((ini))
in writing. the development of a comprehensive global control system is essential to ensure the detailed control of complex financial instruments that are constantly being developed by the eib and its partners. the report welcomes the bank's call for greater transparency and accountability in its more risky programmes. one of my amendments therefore provides that the eib should in any event be subject to prudential regulatory supervision to ensure that it maintains its aaa rating and to monitor the quality of the eib's financial position, the accurate measurement of its results and the observance of the rules of professional conduct. i also fully support the eib in its efforts to provide more support to smes, as they are the engine of the european economy. this report also highlights the eif's leading role in supporting the european union economy, and in particular smes. it highlights the weakness of the sme securitisation market and encourages the eif to continue its efforts to support the recovery. i certainly regard these proposals as a significant step forward. i believe that, in addition to all this, the eib should continue to support the europe 2020 strategy by multiplying the structural funds and by further using innovative financial instruments. it is undeniable, then, that this work has resulted in a balanced report. i congratulate the speaker and thank him for his thorough work.
in writing. in the current economic climate and in order to implement the europe 2020 strategy, the european investment bank is given a special role in the life of the union. as the strategy's core objective is to achieve economic growth - e.g. through job creation, sustainable development, innovation, etc. - projects financed by the eib, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine of the economy, are important elements. however, in order to operate with the necessary effectiveness and efficiency, thereby contributing to the eu's strategic objectives, due attention must be paid to performance measurement. this requires, on the one hand, that both the result, performance and countervailing indicators fit well into the strategy, covering the key strategic objectives. on the other hand, measures should be taken to measure the measurable indicators in a way that is clearly understandable to all. a proper, well-functioning and clear performance evaluation system increases transparency and accountability, which is essential. what can the commission do to ensure that the eib applies the well-functioning performance measurement system of the european court of auditors? is there a way for the court to develop a new performance measurement system in cooperation with the eib? what is the commission's view on the cost of measuring performance indicators and whether this is necessary?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − mr president, regrettably many problems still persist as regards the implementation of european citizens’ rights, including the right to move and reside freely within the eu and electoral rights. one of the greatest obstacles to exercising active union citizenship is the lack of awareness. we must intensify our efforts to provide useful and accessible information about eu citizenship rights. 2013 will be devoted to citizenship and we should maximise our efforts politically and financially to make the best use of it. as you know, the set of rights attached to eu citizenship is now complemented by a new tool, the european citizens’ initiative, which comes into force on 1 april and is very important. in that regard i would like to emphasise that the vălean report is not the place to determine which committee should be responsible for the hearings after successful ecis. this matter is being discussed at present in the committee concerned and will be submitted for discussion to parliament in due course. this is not only disregarding the distribution of competences between committees but is also a blatant attempt to bypass an open debate, which is not something this house should stand for.
in writing. − today we voted on a report that will have a particularly profound impact on the more than 800 million air passengers who travel through the airspace of the european union every year. this is a significant step forward, given that the relevant regulations have changed little in recent years and the level of aviation was lower at the time of their adoption. the report welcomes the need for greater legal certainty, clarity of interpretation and uniform application of the regulations across the union. this is also timely as the commission plans to review regulation 261/2004 next year. one of the most important steps is to publish information on passengers' rights in a clear, appropriate manner and in plain language at all key stages of the journey, starting from the moment when the passenger intends to book a ticket. it should be noted that the report also contributes to the future revision of other legislation, such as the package travel directive and the airport package.
in writing. − better and stricter regulation of derivatives markets should take account of the specific situation of firms which are required to continue hedging their financial and operational risks on favourable terms and in a tailor-made way with derivatives. as the commission has previously pointed out, otc derivatives in particular contribute to the financial turmoil by allowing leverage to increase and leading to an increasing dependency between market participants. this is why i support the guiding principle of this report, so that in the future, future legislative proposals on derivatives transactions follow a functional approach. the need for european regulation of derivatives transactions should therefore be emphasised. we therefore call on the commission to coordinate the process with europe's partners as much as possible in order to achieve uniform and internationally harmonised regulation. this should, of course, be done in a way that avoids regulatory arbitrage due to inadequate coordination. in closing, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for his thorough work and his openness. i think this work has resulted in a great report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of clarifying and improving the legal framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties, as i believe that the commitment of member states to exchange information is not enough, as without well-constructed, automated and standardised it systems, data is exposed to risk and loss. this legislation and the emcs (electronic monitoring system) it contains also contribute significantly to the achievement of the economic objectives of a member state, as this harmonised reporting system allows for the comparison and full analysis of revenue data on the basis of a uniform methodology. it is also important to note that the report mentions that the exchange of information may take place in any language, which, in addition to facilitating the administrative obligations of each member state, certainly contributes to diversity and equality between member states. i myself have contributed to the creation of a data reporting system that does not increase the bureaucratic burden on businesses and member states, but rather promotes transparency and the smoother functioning of the internal market in accordance with eu data protection rules.
in writing. − hungary, as a committed partner of serbia, continues to support the country's european integration. i believe that the balkans and the region are of crucial importance for the european union and especially for hungary. of the former yugoslav states, slovenia is already a member of the eu, croatia has already decided to join, and macedonia and montenegro are also official candidates. hungary has worked on the european integration of the western balkans throughout its presidency of the european council and its commitment to this has not changed since then. that is why we considered it important to support serbia's candidate status. however, it is important to stress that the country must meet all the requirements imposed by the union, since the transposition of european law is essential to solve long-standing problems. for historical reasons, hungary has many ties to serbia, especially to vojvodina in its north. it is in the interest of our neighbourhood policy, our national policy and the hungarians of today that the country should join the community of the european union countries as soon as possible. i welcome the agreement reached between the serbian government and the representatives of the hungarian federation of vojvodina (vmsz), which allows the implementation of the law on asset redistribution and compensation. the aim remains to establish a fully clear legal situation which excludes any form of collective liability. it is welcome that belgrade is making great efforts to settle the serbian-kosovo relationship and that both sides are seeking a peaceful solution. these measures will give a major boost to the country's accession process. we encourage the serbian government to continue on the path it has started and to make every effort to meet the political and economic criteria for accession to the eu.
in writing. − the real stake of serbia's eu accession is to measure and properly exploit regional impacts. the regional approach is also justified by the fact that the union promised membership to all the western balkan states in 2003. however, most of them are not in a condition to begin fulfilling that promise. the diversity of levels of development is also a well-known phenomenon in serbia. added to this problem is the multifaceted political process of internal consolidation of the balkan countries, which perpetuates and even increases the inherited differences. in my view, the hungarians of the past have already proven on many occasions that they are committed supporters of eu accession. i am glad that serbia has been granted candidate status, but it is a bit bitter because it has been too long in the making. sadly, in recent months, the number of serbian supporters of eu membership has fallen below 50 percent, and the news from individual eu countries has contributed to the prevailing apathy. it should be noted that the hungarian community in the past was also keenly aware of what was happening around hungary. this also significantly exceeded the long-awaited eu accession. in the internal political dilemmas in hungary, the majority of the former hungarian community has been on the side of the government from the beginning. i hope that these problems will soon be solved, thus restoring the union's credibility and increasing its acceptance.
in writing. − hungary remains committed to supporting serbia's accession to the eu. i welcome the significant progress made in meeting the copenhagen criteria, which were essential for serbia to achieve eu candidate status. however, i would stress that these issues must be taken into account in the interim, not just for the sake of accession. it is in our unquestionable national interest to have a high level of recognition and guarantee of the collective rights of the hungarian community of vojvodina living in serbia. serbia should make further significant efforts to establish quality education in minority languages at the state and provincial level, which is necessary to preserve ethnic and cultural identity. in addition, the serbian authorities should provide the necessary financial resources for the exercise of cultural, educational and linguistic rights related to the law on national councils. the minority policy in serbia should be monitored continuously. it is reassuring, however, that despite the initial difficulties, the adopted rehabilitation law resolves the issues of collective guilt and that the law places greater emphasis on individual responsibility. in my view, serbia's further progress in the european integration process depends to a large extent on the protection of minorities, the maintenance of good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation.
in writing. − hungary consistently supports the european integration of the western balkans region, including kosovo. i would like to emphasize that hungary is seeking to deepen relations with kosovo in all areas. i believe that the number of people who recognize kosovo will grow dynamically. i also consider the dialogue between serbia and kosovo to be very important, as both countries are pursuing euro-atlantic integration. it is very important that no balkan country should be left behind in the western balkan process of european integration. acquiring eu membership is vital for kosovo as it is the only way to settle post-conflict relations. i am convinced that serbia and kosovo will conclude new agreements on, among other things, the free movement of persons, economic cooperation and the establishment of common customs offices for border crossers. this will of course require the establishment of new diplomatic relations and the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements. it is also important to emphasise that the country is home to many nationalities, and i welcome the fact that kosovo respects the rights of national minorities in terms of language and other rights.
in writing. − the balkans region is a key area for the european union, both economically and geopolitically. montenegro has made a number of efforts and struggled with determination to become a member of the european union in recent years. the country must be an integral part of the enlargement process and we must give it all the support we can. the country is progressing well towards meeting the copenhagen political criteria and has achieved satisfactory results overall. however, in order to make further progress, efforts to strengthen the rule of law, in particular with regard to high-level corruption and organised crime, should be maintained. i support the accession of montenegro.
in writing. − as one of the shadow rapporteurs for this topic on the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), i think that the commission’s green paper recognised several difficulties that reduce the efficiency of the eu’s corporate governance framework and limit the system’s usefulness. to avoid these problems we will, as a result of today’s vote, reinforce certain requirements at eu level by including soft regulation. in agreement with the econ committee we thought that the financial crisis revealed a lack of effectiveness in existing corporate governance principles. in the end we came to a common compromise, which was a great success. a really sensitive issue – and one included in opinions from several committees – is gender equality. nonetheless, promoting women to boards has an indisputably positive effect; that is why i called also on the commission to put in place definite initiatives to ensure women are better represented on boards of directors. to summarise, i can say that we reached these goals by stressing that a well-governed company should be accountable and transparent to its employees, its shareholders and other stakeholders. it reaffirms that directors of institutions have to take account of sustainability and long-term interests when taking decisions, in order to minimise risks.
in writing. − following the presentation of the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank to the committee, the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament prepared an own-initiative report on the eib's activities in 2010. the report welcomes the efforts made by the bank in 2010 to help and strengthen the implementation of the european union's policy on aid and development. however, it is important to note that the bank needs to take further steps towards more transparent and efficient operations and to further increase its support to smes, as these are the engines of the european economy. as rapporteur of the 2008 annual activity report of the european investment bank, i support the report and believe that the bank finances a number of key eu projects and smes, so it is particularly important to monitor its activities and to help it to operate as efficiently and as efficiently as possible, creating the greatest possible european added value.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. my fellow citizens! over the years, the european parliament's human rights report has become a serious tool, which is being followed both within the european union and in third countries. so it doesn't matter what's in this report and what the quality of this report is. i therefore congratulate my colleague mr howitt on his excellent work and on the re-drafting of a report which deserves our full attention. i think it is important to emphasise in the presence of the high representative that, beyond the fine words, it is essential that at least those eu instruments and initiatives - and i am thinking here also of the financial instruments - which have just been mentioned and which can have a concrete impact on the lives of those whose human rights are being violated, whether in our neighbourhood or elsewhere in the world, should be strengthened in the coming period. and i would like to draw attention to the communities, such as the national minorities and the children's communities, who, as we have heard before, are the ones who suffer most from human rights violations.
in writing. as you know, the european union acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (un crpd) on 23 january 2011, which is historic not only because it is the first human rights convention to which the eu has acceded as a regional organisation, but also because the convention is central to my report adopted by the ep last october. for the un convention and the ep report on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities and the european disability strategy 2010-2020 to be truly effective in the world, this commitment must also be reflected in the eu's external relations, in line with point 106 of my report. i wonder whether the eu's external relations human rights review and the relevant political declaration and action plan will include considerations and assessments to ensure the rights of people with disabilities?
mr president, being a member of the industry committee, i would like to make it clear that there is a life in this region beyond the energy project, and building democracy there is as important as any economic relations with the region. the european union itself is the largest peace project, therefore there is a need to show in the region that peace can increase opportunities not only for the members of the european union but in the region as well. twenty years have passed since the start of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. there is a need for progress and europe has to do more – if it does not, who will? i think the presence of the european union, of europeans, of european parliamentarians there – and we have been in the region several times in the past year – has proved that there is an added value, and therefore it has to be continued. i think it is very important to the people, both men and women. do not forget that after twenty years there is a younger generation who do not wish to have war any more and are hoping for peace.
thank you for your time, mr. president. a lot has been said in the debate, and i don't necessarily want to repeat it. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr milan cabrnoch, for his excellent work and i would also like to point out that we members of parliament often receive questions from citizens about what we are doing here in parliament. if there is a good demonstration that the commission and parliament can do something useful together, then this apparently technical problem we are discussing is very good evidence that by meaningful, useful cooperation we are able to help our citizens who are free to move, free to enterprise in an enlarged europe, to retain the rights they have acquired, to enjoy the benefits of those rights. the particular merit of this debate, this consultation, this joint work is that it is based on the proposals of the commission's committee of experts, that it takes account of the experience of the member states in this respect and that parliament, its members, have also tried to find a solution to these apparently technical problems in the first reading. it's like it's been said before. new forms of enterprise, new forms of contract, new and more mobile work opportunities have emerged in the union. we struggle in many areas to create legal frameworks, legal rules to regulate these, to deal with them clearly. i think we have a really good example here that if we want to, we can and we can find good solutions. i find the new rules on self-employed airline staff particularly positive. i personally think that the formulation of the base space creates a new and creative opportunity. once again, i thank all of you in the commission, i thank my colleague milan for his work, and i hope it will be really useful. it is a matter of coordination, which we shall be discussing many times, and which must be brought up again and again, year after year.
i'd like to ask officer andor a question. in particular, today there are one million posted workers, which is less than 1% of the european workforce, or 0.7% to be precise. how do you see the commissioner as attributing the fact that the proportion of posted workers in europe is so low to the shortcomings of eu legislation, the previous directive and the previous regulation? has the commission carried out an impact assessment? if the amendment to the directive and the monti ii regulation were adopted, how much would this create new jobs, how much would it help economic growth, which is the biggest problem in europe today, that there is not enough economic growth. in this respect, what is the outcome of the commission's impact assessment?
thank you for your answer, officer. when we talk about social dumping, i often feel that there is a closure on the part of the old member states, and it would be very good if the debate on the polish plumber were not re-launched, if the debate on the old and new member states were not re-launched, because if i look at the proportion of workers sent abroad, as i said in the previous paragraphs, i think that social dumping is exaggerated here. how can we avoid another fault line between the new member states and the old member states after 2004?
the european commission's disability strategy, published at the end of 2010, includes a figure for employment, namely 50%. that number is 50% employment level. we're talking about central eastern europe, so half of that number is valid, so the employment rate is very low. unfortunately, there is no figure that can show whether disabled workers can take up employment in other eu member states. i don't think i'd be surprised to hear that they're taking jobs in very small numbers. why would i? because access and social services are not uniform across member states. my question is what does the european commission intend to do to achieve this goal? in particular, the commission intends to present this year the so-called european barriers package.
thank you for your answer. my second supplementary question relates to the european social fund. in recent years, about 4% of the basic resource has been devoted to improving the situation of people with disabilities. meanwhile, about 10% of europe's citizens live with a disability. so the fair argument is that at least 10% of the fund, 10% of the resources should be devoted to people with disabilities. is this the path the commission intends to take?
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the adoption of the irish protocol, which explains the treaty of lisbon in the light of the concerns of the irish people. the document states that the treaty of lisbon does not affect in any way the scope and applicability of the protection of the right to life, the right to family and the right to education provided for in the constitution of ireland, since, under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, those areas do not fall within the competence of the union. the european parliament has welcomed the fact that, by adopting the protocol, it has finally made clear that the regulation of abortion in the eu is a matter for the member states.
in writing. − in the european union, the outermost regions are a special autonomous group which should be given greater attention, not only because of their remoteness, but also because their integration into their own geographical environment should be in the common interest of the european community as a whole. i regret to note that the commission is planning withdrawals in its proposal for the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, which also concerns the additional resources for the outermost regions. however, i believe that the flexibility of cohesion policy instruments should be increased to enable the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to be achieved, even in specific geographical and demographic circumstances, and that cohesion policy should aim at creating a sustainable, inclusive growth-oriented, territorial cohesion-based economy. cohesion policy must remain one of the main tools of european action and therefore play an important role in reducing inequalities in europe's regions, and in particular in the outermost regions. i am pleased to note that the commission intends to allocate a separate budget line for 'outermost regions and very sparsely populated regions' in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, as this will create a clearer link between the support provided for these regions and their objectives. it is important to emphasise the need for territorial cooperation in the outermost regions and the continuation of related projects of common interest and, in this context, the better use of available aid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as i consider it essential that the outermost regions of the union receive the same priority as the member states which form the core of the union. each eu policy, and cohesion policy in particular, can only succeed if it is applied consistently, in solidarity, to all equally, with the support of the little ones and the needy. just as the new member states needed help when they joined, and in many cases some of their regions still need support from the common funds, so too the different development opportunities for the outermost regions must be supported, be it in any element of the europe 2020 strategy or in the context of a more complete community coherence with this programme. the fact that these external regions are to be given a separate heading in the new budgetary cycle is an important step forward, and it is also right to bear in mind that they play a particularly important role in protecting the union's borders, in fostering economic and cultural links with third countries and in ensuring the territorial continuity of the single market.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the fact that the annual report on human rights in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter dedicates a full chapter to the human rights situation of women, taking a firm standpoint in condemning the gravest abuses of women’s fundamental rights, such as sexual violence. in this regard, the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development for the period 2010-2015 and the commission’s women’s charter promoting gender equality at international level are very important steps. the council of europe’s convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence must also be promptly signed and ratified.
mr lopez aguilár, i know you wanted to put a blue-card question to mr de grandes pascual but i am sorry to say that we have no more time. anyhow, i am very happy that not only the hungarians have an internal political debate; i think that the spanish question is very important. we should go ahead.
mr president we have already spoken about the crisis on several occasions, and president barroso has spoken in several ways about the ways in which the crisis has been dealt with. sadly, the subject is still relevant today. it would be interesting to know how many of the suggestions made here will be implemented. unfortunately, the news on the success of the crisis management is contradictory. appropriate conclusions should be drawn. it's important that we don't delude ourselves into drawing conclusions. there's one more question i need to clear up, and it's the most important one for me today. that's the title of today's agenda item. let us not forget, commissioner, that we have jointly adopted the six-pack on economic governance, the strict fiscal policy, and we are talking about the eurozone. this title reflects something else to me. it reflects that there are sweet children, sweet stepchildren and sweet stepchildren. i want to be reassured that this is not the case. we share the same mindset, the same resources and the same growth strategy.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is attached to the council and commission statements: call for concrete action to combat tax fraud and tax evasion [2012/2599 ((rsp) ].
the issue is extremely timely, as the prevention of tax evasion and the revenue generated from it is also extremely necessary. the crisis has confirmed this for us, and also that we must not only set requirements, but also continuously assess and monitor their fulfilment. if we do not do this, not only will we lose revenue, but also the confidence and the hope of european citizens and businesses in the future. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive on taxation of savings to include the taxation of savings deposits. in addition, it is important to me that tax avoidance from hybrid financial instruments is also mentioned. as the member responsible for the royalty and interest payments, i will also be dealing with this matter in particular.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. - mr president! - what are you doing? it is true that i was a rapporteur for the itre commission, but i would rather give my opinion, my private opinion, if appropriate, and i would like to recommend it to the european commission for its special consideration. i have to say that the itre committee voted on the subject that we finally closed with our amendment report 123. i would like to thank mrs lulling for her continued cooperation and my colleagues for the work they have done and have done in preparing this report, and i hope that it will be adopted by both the european parliament and the commission.
in writing. our decisions on energy taxation today will seriously determine europe's competitiveness for decades to come. fundamental issues such as energy taxation must be addressed from all angles, including environmental, energy, industrial and even social policy. it is also essential that the tax reform leads to a tax policy that is cleaner, more transparent and free from over-administration than at present. a tax structure that promotes energy efficiency and low carbon emissions can not only strengthen the union budget but also help to finance the green energy development and research projects of the member states in the future. the same amount could also be used to support the efforts to make european nuclear energy safer. in addition, the integrated tax system can help in such endeavours as educating energy users, measuring and improving the efficiency of green energy and the necessary alternative energy sources, and not least supporting green small businesses. as a socialist representative, my priority is to ensure that the people of europe have access to affordable and safe energy. while we need sustainable development, renewable energy, efficient energy taxation and adequate energy security, we cannot forget the burden on the population for a moment.
blue-card question. – mr president, just a point of clarification. i agreed with you almost completely, especially taking into consideration the large-scale and serious violations of human rights committed by the government we are talking about, namely the us government. i just want to seek clarification on the issue of proportionality as opposed to purpose, because i think that for many people – especially those who are not lawyers – it might be disturbing to think that giving up some of our privacy and data protection rights might be proportionate to the noble aim of preventing terrorism. i think this is something we all agree upon. but the question here is: can this noble purpose really be achieved by the measures taken here? that is where i have a problem and that is why i am going to vote no today. i want to ask your opinion on the issue of proportionality as opposed to purpose. i want to ask you for a clarification on that.
blue-card question. – mr president, with all due respect, may i ask if, under normal circumstances, you would agree that a government – whether our own or another – has absolutely no business knowing where we travel, with whom, how often we do so, how much we spend on airline tickets, or whether we have a stoma, for example, or any other health issues? of course the government might have a justified interest in collecting data about this if they can protect lives with this information, but how exactly can they protect us from terrorism by collecting this data and restricting our privacy?
mr president the european parliament shall have the right of unanimity with regard to the convention on the exchange of air passenger data. that's how it was with the swift agreement, where we voted no. not only because of the problems of content, but also because we were not given the right information and the conditions set by the european parliament were not taken into account in the negotiations. partly as a consequence of the parliamentary 'no' at the time, the negotiations were now more transparent, there was a dialogue between the libe committee and the european commission. some of our expectations, as set out at the beginning of the process, have been incorporated into the draft agreement. nevertheless, the agreement is not satisfactory in several respects. i think, however, that the european parliament should approve the agreement. if we don't accept it, then the data will be passed on to the united states in the same way, without any kind of uniform guarantee for european citizens to have their data tracked, to have their data reviewed. it's what's happened before. bilateral agreements would govern data protection, with individual member states negotiating with even less lobbying power than the european commission now has. i do not think the draft agreement is good, but i am in favour of adopting it because it gives the european parliament the opportunity, through joint review and monitoring, to be informed about what is happening in the implementation of the agreement and, if necessary, to demand its suspension and renegotiation. passengers can track who has their data and what they do with it. it should provide legal certainty to european airlines. i urge the european commission to closely monitor the implementation of the agreement, the use of passenger data, the handling of sensitive data and to report back to parliament. if the implementation of the agreement is likely to lead to a breach of the protection of european citizens' data in practice, suspend and renegotiate the agreement.
my colleagues! how far will europe go? where is the limit in tolerating the united states to force europe to abandon its human rights standards by invoking the threat of terrorism? it started with the united states taking measures on its own soil that had no causal connection with the prevention of terrorism, because to keep people in prison for ten years without the right to defend themselves, tortured, in cruel conditions, without a trial, without a fair trial in the european sense, is unacceptable to us. yet we accepted that secret prisons were built on european soil and that this behavior was carried on there. now, this may seem like a small thing to talk about today, but i still think we have to draw the line somewhere.
in writing. the fight against terrorism and organised crime can hardly be effective without the tracking and processing of banking and passenger data. it is welcome that agreements have been reached between the eu and its allies on both tftp and pnr, which address the majority of the european parliament's concerns on privacy and data protection by incorporating guarantees for the prevention and remediation of possible violations into the agreements. i have repeatedly stressed the need for reciprocity in the us-eu relationship. in other words, the union should not only give but also receive information from the us as an equal partner in the prosecution of crime. it is questionable whether the eu needs its own pnr. a pnr system of its own would not only make the fight against terrorism more effective, but would also help to make reciprocity between the union and its allies a reality. it would be good if the commission finally made its vision of the future of the eu pnr clear. it would be beneficial for the union, the member states and the aviation industry to have the union pnr as a single european framework for processing data, ensuring equal access to information for member states. of course, and this convention provides a hopeful basis for this, it is essential that the guarantees of personality rights and data protection are also taken into account in the design of a possible eu pnr system.
in writing. − the prolonged economic and financial crisis is challenging the macroeconomic stability of some countries. the budgetary and debt crisis in the member states concerned has created exceptional situations that prevent them from implementing important projects under cohesion and structural policies. the banking sector is not very willing to provide financing, and private investors are not available. the severely affected countries are unable to generate growth and in some countries, investment has stopped due to a lack of private co-financing. the private sector must be involved in the implementation of infrastructure projects. europe needs growth, which can only be achieved if we ensure that the regions of the european union absorb the regional development fund and the cohesion fund as a risk-sharing instrument. synergies between the funds need to be strengthened, as this is the only way to achieve an efficient use. the rules on co-financing and public funding are extremely rigid. the increase in the co-financing rate to 95% is a help, but it is still not enough. the framework for the implementation of cohesion policies needs to be re-thought and, in cases where crisis-related problems arise, these risk-sharing options should be used. this legislative proposal will help not only greece but also many member states affected by the crisis. this risk-sharing instrument will allow member states to implement projects quickly and efficiently and to continue the implementation of projects already started. risk-sharing also means that the european commission and the european investment bank will be able to act together to ensure that private sector investment is also more effectively involved in the implementation of projects.
in writing. − the european union is currently facing a prolonged economic and financial crisis, which is affecting not only the macroeconomic stability of many member states but also access to finance across the union. this also threatens the implementation of cohesion policy programmes, as the liquidity problems of financial institutions limit the amounts of funding available to public and private actors implementing the projects concerned. i agree with the rapporteur that the liquidity shortage experienced by the financial sector is not limited to countries that have received financial assistance from the european financial stabilisation mechanism or the balance of payments mechanism. this is why managers of infrastructure and productive investments in all member states consider the shortage of funding to be one of the main problems. in my view, the possibility of extending the risk-sharing mechanisms to all member states will increase the volume of investment in growth and jobs across the union by using resources from the structural and cohesion funds that would otherwise not be used by the end of the current programming period. i have voted in favour of the report because i consider it important.
in writing. − the adopted report aims to introduce a voluntary common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) at eu level by harmonising the calculation and proportional distribution of the tax base, but without affecting the tax rate or national rules on reporting. its use can significantly increase the competitiveness of the european economy, transparency, tax fraud, tax avoidance and the reduction of double taxation, but i could not support the report with my vote because hungary also applies tax base adjustment items to enforce economic policy preference. thus, full harmonisation of the calculation of the corporate tax base is not in line with the current tax policy of the government and would have a negative impact on tax revenues, reduce gdp and undermine the competitiveness of the domestic corporate tax system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it concerns a thorough review of the eu's rules on the taxation of energy products and encourages the use of renewable energy sources and lower co2 emissions, while addressing the imbalances that currently exist. the europe 2020 strategy and our energy and climate objectives require fair and transparent energy taxation to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. this proposal provides a strong carbon price signal for businesses and consumers, and also provides an opportunity to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption, thereby favouring growth-friendly taxation. moreover, since tax minimums are uniform across the union, the current amendment to the directive will not create additional costs for operators or reduce competitiveness.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, minister, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of parliament! i welcome the position expressed by the council and the commission, which shows that the eu's accession to the convention on human rights and the text of the treaty on human rights are moving in the direction of providing added value for european citizens, as requested by my report to the committee on the interior and justice before the start of the negotiations, and as many of the elements of that report are reflected in the treaty. i should like to thank the commission in particular for keeping the members regularly informed of the state of the negotiations and for giving us the opportunity to express our views and make comments. the added value and effective enforcement aspects should also be taken into account when making the necessary compromises. at the same time, i do not recommend that european citizens have excessive expectations. it is very important to have precise information about what this accession will be about, because if not, then trust in the eu institutions will also begin. in seeking a compromise on the accession treaty, we must not forget the other side of the coin, the need for the strasbourg court reform, which was stressed from the outset. i hope that the brighton conference which began yesterday will provide answers to the problematic questions that have arisen in relation to this reform, which can be reassuring to all parties. accession can only be successful if it genuinely strengthens the european institutions already in place and the judicial systems of the member states, including all the existing instruments to promote the rights of citizens, not only in principle but also in practice, and this treaty is one such instrument.
madam president, please. the question arose as to what would be the added value of the union's accession to the convention. i would like to make it clear that this represents a new remedy for european citizens, who can also bring their complaints to the strasbourg court in the event of infringements of the union's fundamental rights, so there is added value. they could turn around if some member states did not block this connection. in this debate, we heard about which countries, primarily which countries. this is as much a cause for concern as some of the proposals made at the recent brighton conference on the reform of the strasbourg court. such a proposal would not be admissible before the court of human rights under the new admissibility criterion, namely that the member state court has already examined the case. it would seriously undermine the enjoyment of human rights and the right to a fair trial, in particular for citizens of states where the judicial system cannot be considered independent. we want to make sure that the overburden of the human rights court will not be reduced at the expense of the guarantee of human rights. we are all aware of the overload, but the solution is not to be found in the direction that the brighton conference has taken. let's hope that's not the final decision. what we can support is, indeed, what we have also heard here today, to provide adequate resources for the human rights court. the effects of the reforms of recent years must be expected, and the application of the convention on human rights and the quality of legislation in the member states must be improved. european governments must be committed to implementing the decisions of the court of human rights. if all this happens, the court of justice in strasbourg will certainly be less overburdened and will be able to continue to fulfil the role which we consider to be very important.
my fellow citizens! i started my career in the soviet union as a diplomat, where a lot of things were classified, were state secrets. i never thought that the classification of disadvantaged areas could be a secret issue in the european union. my colleagues have made all the important arguments in front of me, and i find this an absurd situation. in my country and in my smaller region, where i come from, the central part of hungary, the danube-tisza region, the sandbox, which the un world food organization, the fao has classified as a semi-desert, the farmers do not know that they will now be a disadvantaged area or not, although without irrigation these farmers will not survive. i therefore fully agree with mr dorfmann, my rapporteur, and all my colleagues that what the european council and the european commission are doing in the absence of the european council is a disgrace.
my fellow citizens! we've revived an old debate. i really like the bacon from south tyrol, but the bacon from hungary is also excellent. i would really like this discussion not to be about closing the trade gate for each other. moreover, this debate is somewhat redundant, since we have already had this debate in the context of quality policy. and let's not forget that the european union is the world's second largest exporter of agricultural products and the world's largest importer of agricultural products. mr dorfmann pointed out that local markets, local trade, local processing have their limits. i support this, because it means jobs in the agricultural sector, it reduces transport costs, but let's not be under any illusions. it would be good if we in this house could finally calculate what the actual environmental footprint of an agricultural product is, because it is not certain that if in hungary, where it is cold, a greenhouse uses a lot of energy, that the ecological footprint of vegetable production will be smaller than if it is imported from another continent, where i even include the transport costs. we can stop economic protectionism, we can help local production, but we can't stop global trade.
in writing. consuming locally produced food has many benefits for both consumers and farmers who produce it. these products are of a more reliable quality for local consumers, as they add the face of the farmer to the product, and the purchase is often based on personal knowledge. they contribute to the viability of the local rural economy by maintaining income. since most of the sales are made directly by the farmer in local markets, this eliminates the small and large food retailers who would otherwise receive a disproportionate share of the profits. and selling locally is good for the environment, because the goods don't travel hundreds, sometimes thousands of miles. this will reduce co2 emissions from the transport of agricultural products. one of fidesz's most important election promises was to support local smallholders, local markets. the government has already achieved a number of significant results in this area. the amendment to the public procurement act requires, for example, that schools, hospitals and other public institutions should give preference to local producers when purchasing food. at the same time, in order to protect local producers, it is necessary to define at european level the conditions and labelling rules for locally produced food.
in writing. in my opinion, it is considered to be a food that is produced entirely locally, to which no artificial preservatives are added, and which reaches the consumer in the same environment with its original natural characteristics. central, state support for the production of locally produced food could create self-sufficient regions that would contribute greatly to employment growth and, in the long run, radically reduce health expenditure in the region due to a healthy consumption of these foods. the precise origin of the finished product and of the raw material, broken down by locality, should be indicated on the packaging of these products.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr commissioner, and my fellow members of parliament, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to welcome the report by mrs balzani and i am very pleased that in this case the largest groups in the commission and the european parliament are thinking in the same way and we are confirming our decision taken in december 2011 and asking for the transfer of funds. we often hear the criticism that the increased costs make it worthwhile to lose confidence in the project, but let us add that one of the reasons for the increase in costs is precisely the lack of confidence of the budgetary authorities and this causes delays. we need to know that any further hesitation will lead to cost increases, and this is important not only for the current financial years 2012 and 2013, but also for the financial period 2014-2020. it is therefore very important that the member states of europe provide a strengthened political support for this project, because it is very, very important to know that the huge social groups that are entering as energy consumers, due to global trends, energy hunger, demographic change and globalisation, are more present today than ever before. and since i have time, let me tell you that for us who came from the new member states, but perhaps for the whole european union, it is very important to remember the date when the iter project started. in 1985, as the first step in ending the cold war, gorbachev, then the russian party's general secretary, met with ronald reagan and agreed not only to start nuclear disarmament, but also to cooperate in science and technology. this scientific and technological cooperation, concluded in 1985, marked the beginning of the iter project. the support for this project comes from the political parties of the european union, so it has to be not just a technological decision, but also a political affirmation that the cold war is finally behind us, and that's a good thing. and finally, allow me to welcome fusion energy, which was dreamed up by a hungarian scientist, a hungarian nobel prize winner, teller ede, as a hungarian. i think that we rarely find a project that we as hungarians, as europeans, can support for such a long time, dreaming in a global environment. so i'm telling you, not only financially, not only in terms of energy production, but also politically, we need to continue this project. thank you for listening.
blue-card question. – mr president, i will try to be very short. we have just started to discuss in parliament the energy roadmap 2050, which is actually not 27 years away like the iter from 1985 but 37 years in the future. i wonder if the green group will not support the energy roadmap 2050 because it is just too far away? there will probably be changes in the coming 37 years.
member of the commission. − mr president, we welcome mr kaczmarek’s report and the report of the court of auditors, both of which show that the exercise of devolution of external assistance is bringing positive results. i believe that, thanks to devolution, eu aid is now being delivered better, closer and faster to the beneficiaries. of course, in order to fully exploit the potential of devolution we need to ensure staffing levels for the future. this is an area in which cooperation with parliament is very much needed. having said that, we are committed to improving what both the court of auditors report and mr kaczmarek’s report identified as the real issues. we should do more to measure the results of our aid in order to move towards a more result-oriented culture. given the restraints of human resources, we need to concentrate these where there is an identified need, and we have identified additional needs in africa and in neighbourhood delegations. as has been mentioned, the question of turnover is a real issue, given that 40% of our employees are contract agents with three-year contracts. increasing this ratio could create a real problem in the future. therefore, in order to mitigate the problem of contract agents and the turnover of agents, we are working to move the contracts of contract agents from the headquarters to delegations once their contracts are over, and we would like to see six-year contracts rather than shorter ones in the future. we call on the rapporteur and parliament to support our efforts to achieve this. the new external action service is very important for the future. we have agreed on working arrangements in order to divide the work. in addition, the delegation heads will have great responsibility: not only will they act as authorising officers, they will also be responsible for the consistency of the service. however – and this is still clear – the commission is, in principle, responsible for the implementation of the budget, and the commission is fully accountable to parliament in this area. to sum up, devolution is a positive development. we are ready to follow the advice and instructions set out in the court of auditors report and in mr kaczmarek’s report in order to make it even better in the future.
rapporteur. − mr president, i apologise for being late, but on the screen it was shown as being ten minutes later. i will give my presentation in hungarian. tisztelt elnök úr! kedvek kollegák! megtiszteltetés számomra, hogy az európai felsőoktatási rendszerek modernizációja című jelentés raportőre lehettem. ezúton mondok köszönetet a kulturális és oktatási bizottság minden tagjának, valamint szakértői és tanácsadói csapatának, az egyes csoportok árnyék-jelentéstévőinek, a femm szakbizottságnak, valamennyi kedves kollegámnak, nem kevésbé a régiók bizottságának, az európai egyetemek szövetségének, egyes hallgatói képviseleteknek, akik komoly szakmai munkával, építő hozzáállással és szoros együttműködéssel a jelentés elkészítésében kivették részüket. a jelentéstévői feladat amiatt is fontos és külön kihívást jelent számomra, mivel abból a kelet-közép-európai térségből, s egy olyan, az unióhoz nemrégen csatlakozott országból, romániából jövök, melyben a totalitárius diktatúra gátat vetett egy demokratikus értelemben vett felsőoktatási intézményrendszer kifejlődésének, az egyetemi autonómiát semmibe vette és az egész oktatásügyet a társadalmi és politikai elnyomás színterévé és eszközévé alacsonyította. ezt szem előtt tartva okkal és joggal állapíthatjuk meg, hogy az unióhoz csatlakozott volt kommunista országok számára a felsőoktatás átalakításának és megújításának kettős tétje van. egyszerre jelenti az 1989-ben elkezdődött demokratikus rendszerváltozás folytatását és a múltból örökölt válság leküzdését, valamint az unió fejlett, nyugati európai országaihoz való felzárkózást az európai felsőoktatási térség keretében. a jelentéstervezethez beérkezett 180 módosító indítvány is azt jelzi, hogy most a kontinensünket sújtó sokrétű válság idején az európai felsőoktatási rendszer megújítása korparancsnak tekinthető. ennek megfelelően a jelentés a felsőoktatási rendszerek modernizációja révén azokra a rendkívüli kihívásokra kíván feleletet adni, melyeket egyebek mellett az általános gazdasági válság, a költségvetési hiányok kényszere, a megnövekedett munkanélküliség vagy a tovább súlyosbodó demográfiai válság támasztanak. a felsőoktatás közös európai érték. magújítása csak az uniós, a tagállami és a regionális szint együttes szerepvállalásával képzelhető el azt is figyelembe véve, hogy a felsőoktatás meghatározó szerepet játszhat a társadalmi befogadás elősegítésében. a jelentés arra hívja fel a felsőfokú oktatási intézményeket, hogy az előbbiekkel, illetve külső partnereivel, a helyi önkormányzatokkal, a civil szervezetekkel és az üzleti szféra szereplőivel összefogva minden társadalmi csoportottal hátrányos helyzetben lévők számára is biztosítsák a felsőoktatási tanulmányi lehetőségeket. ennek összefüggésében az unió, illetve a parlament ezúton is fellép a diszkrimináció bármely formája ellen, és kiáll a kulturális és nyelvi sokszínűség alapvető értékei mellett. ennek megfelelően a jelentés arra ösztönzi a tagországokat, hogy különleges figyelemben és anyagi támogatásban részesítsék a nemzeti és etnikai, nyelvi kisebbségek szolgálatában álló felsőfokú intézményeket. kihagyok egy részt. hadd zárjam ismertetésemet a jövendő letéteményeseivel, az ifjúsággal. közismert, hogy egyes tagországokban, különösképpen a posztkommunista államok társadalmaiban igen magas a fiatalkorú munkanélküliek aránya. reményeink szerint a jelentés, illetve az uniós politika és intézkedések a márciusban elfogadott berlinguer jelentéssel együtt jelentős mértékben hozzájárulnak ahhoz, hogy az európa 2020 stratégia célkitűzéseinek megfelelően európai ifjúságunk méltó munkához és kenyérkeresethez jusson.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! i was very happy to see the name of tőke lászló next to the report, since my fellow tőke mp was a reformed bishop and a member of the transylvanian hungarian community. one might therefore expect that this report would attempt to penetrate both the tenets of christianity and the interests of the indigenous european minority. but from this point of view, i unfortunately find some shortcomings in the report, because of the 74 points, only one concerns minority higher education, and let's say four points concern gender balance in higher education, which i feel is a misrepresentation, because not all countries work like belgium, where bilingualism is completely clear, but there is still a romania, where, for example, at the university of kolozsvár, hungarian signs can only be placed with difficulty. so, unfortunately, although i greatly appreciate the work of my colleague, congressman capital, i cannot vote for it.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague, mr capitales, on his report which gives a complete picture of the state of european higher education. i would like to begin by highlighting the role of sport in education, the importance of which is clearly highlighted in several places in the report. i consider it imperative that the funding of european higher education remains stable in the face of the crisis, both from the member states and from the eu budget. i agree with the rapporteur that further support and development of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) based in budapest should be ensured. i suggested that the commission develop a strategy to reduce regional disparities between western and central and eastern european higher education institutions. finally, to prevent students from ending their studies in debt and entering the labour market with excessive debt, i propose to review the double-edged effect of student loans.
in writing. i consider the report by mr tőke to be very important. we all know that it is in the interest of europe as a whole to acquire knowledge of a high quality, which is really useful and usable for present and future generations. today's higher education institutions must provide competitive knowledge, and they must do so while keeping abreast of the real needs of the labour market. in this context, i would like to highlight the issue of higher education in the mother tongue for national minorities. the motto of the european union is 'unity in diversity'. in order to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, it is therefore necessary that these national minority communities be able to preserve their identity, represent their interests and defend their rights. but to do this, national minorities, like majority societies, need a well-educated leadership, an elite. and for such a reliable, competitive knowledge-based elite to represent the interests of communities, it is essential that higher education be of high quality, and not least, in the mother tongue, and that it be supported and provided by the majority society. majority societies should therefore pay particular attention to and support traditional higher education institutions of national, ethnic or linguistic minorities, especially those of endangered cultures and languages.
in writing. – i would like to warmly congratulate my colleague lászló tőkés for his report on modernising europe’s higher education systems, which rightly calls on member states and higher education institutions to widen access for students from all social backgrounds, since higher education has the potential to promote social inclusion and upward social mobility, benefiting disadvantaged communities in a complex way, with its positive socio-economic impacts reaching far beyond the individual concerned. the attendance of disadvantaged young people and especially of roma in higher education institutions is astoundingly low. aid mechanisms, such as scholarships and mentoring support, should be established therefore for young roma, to inspire them not only to obtain diplomas but also to enrol in higher education establishments. a system of perks should also be considered, which would increase the participation of roma youth in such institutions and improve their qualifications. it is also very important to keep track of the employment outcomes of graduates and to measure how higher education responds to labour market demands. the commission and member states therefore need to collect and publish statistical data regarding the correlation between different higher education degrees and employment opportunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the economic crisis has certainly focused our attention on three things. on the one hand, it is necessary to reduce bureaucracy, speed up administration and make savings. it is particularly important, as mrs ticău said, because smes, companies, enterprises account for some 99% of the world's businesses. and this is where digitalization, e-governance, can go a long way. the fact is that the report also considers unification to be important, but there is nothing to unify in eastern europe, because this system hardly works, so the establishment of this becomes particularly important, it becomes a matter of support within the european union. but there are two very serious concerns about this system. one is that we have to guarantee data protection in some way. data protection is also very important for companies because of economic competition. the other principle is that the authorities should only be able to act within their own nation state.
in writing. with the rapid development of information technology, we are increasingly handling cases online or using our mobile phones. it is encouraging that in recent times several member states have taken advantage of the opportunities offered by technological innovation in the field of government services. it has become increasingly clear to decision-makers that the use of egovernment services is a major step forward both for the quality of life of eu citizens and for the efficient functioning of public administrations in the member states. in recent years, electronic administration has become increasingly widespread in hungary. the hungarian example has also proved one of the main messages of the report: citizens save time and money by using flexible and fast online administration. online customer gateways allow us to handle our business from home or the office, sparing us hours of paperwork and cluttered forms. the introduction of egovernment is supported by the business community as well as citizens, as it significantly reduces administrative burdens and thus improves the productivity of businesses. in addition, the public sector is the largest beneficiary of the spread of electronic administration. the electronic control system increases the efficiency of data management and reduces operational costs and errors. however, despite good examples in the member states and initial successes, we cannot afford to fall behind, as the development of information technology opens up new opportunities for improving efficiency.
the first item on the agenda is the report by ms nicole kiil-nielsen, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on the proposal for a directive on women and climate change (2011/2197 (ini)) (a7-0049/2012).
in writing. pollinators play a key role in the conservation of biodiversity, primarily wild and domesticated bees, which are responsible for pollinating 80% of european flowering plant species. as i pointed out in my report on 'health of bees and the future of the beekeeping sector', adopted last year, there are a number of reasons for the decline in honeybees over the years. the lack of veterinary medicinal products, the overuse of certain pesticides and their active substances, in particular neonicotinoids, certain intensive farming methods and the adverse effects of climate change all play a role. the main problem, however, is that there are insufficient eu funds for scientific research and data collection in the field of beekeeping at european level. our knowledge of european bee populations is limited and it is extremely difficult to generate scientific results on the basis of which responsible decisions can be made. i therefore welcome the fact that the report, in line with the previous report i have mentioned, calls on the european commission to significantly increase support for the beekeeping sector. bee health is in the interest of european farmers and environmentalists, and serves the interests of both the food industry and the environment. bees produce public goods through pollination and it is therefore appropriate that the new common agricultural policy, which will enter into force in 2014, should provide more support to the sector than before.
mr president, i would just like to present a technical oral amendment. we agreed with a former rapporteur, mr berlinguer, to include the following citation in citation 19: ‘having regard to its resolution of 13 march 2012 on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process’. this is my proposal. please support it.
in writing. − i find the report on the modernisation of european higher education systems very welcome, as it tackles one of the most serious issues facing europe in a turbulent time - the disruption of higher education systems - which is also closely linked to the issue of youth unemployment and thus one of the biggest challenges facing europe. the report is good, because it rightly recognises the need to modernise higher education in today's changing times. on the other hand, the report rightly points out that it is not only the teaching methods, the learning structures and the training itself that are decisive and need to be reformed, but also the question of the financial support of the whole system, which cannot be treated in isolation and which fundamentally affects the quality of european education and training, that is, the supply of the european labour market. in the context of europe 2020, the key view on european higher education is that a system should be developed that does not place an additional burden on those who wish to attend higher education, but that functions as a system that rationalises its resources and uses them in response to real needs. universities need even more financial support from the european union to make their requirements more uniform, with due regard for student mobility and the mutual recognition of diplomas.
in writing. - it may soon be possible to write and send an appeal against a decision at home, sitting on the couch with coffee and cake, or to fill out any type of tax return on the beach in the sun. electronic communication between citizens and public administrations, e-government services, are spreading across europe. i am also proud to say that my country is on the right track to achieve full e-government with the portal www.magyarorszag.hu. however, we must not forget that digital security can only be built by ensuring privacy rights, combating security threats, and investing in human knowledge and access. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, as well as the purchase, hire or rental of furniture and equipment, and the purchase of furniture and equipment for the construction and maintenance of buildings. i believe that the internet is an opportunity for small businesses today, and i want to vote in favour of creating the right conditions for our businesses to do what they do best: do business. of course, we still have a long way to go to achieve our common goal, and we still have a lot of work to do to create the right conditions at european level so that, thanks to the cooperation of the member states, everyone can enjoy the results in our common european family.
in writing. we have discussed the future of europe many times within these walls. the problem is not that we are putting this very complex issue on the agenda again and again, but that, as the french and greek elections show, we are unable to provide a perspective for european citizens, especially young people. it is particularly sad today, when we celebrate europe. but what are we celebrating when we often fail to defend european achievements with enough resolve, when we fail to agree on the values we once thought we shared, and when we fail to stand up for each other when we need to be truly united? "a good friend is known by his bad name", so the saying goes. unfortunately, the crisis has shown that we are not on the right track, because there are those who are given special treatment and others who are left behind. we cannot commit ourselves to the principles of more jobs, more economic growth and lifelong learning if one in five young europeans is unemployed and feels hopeless. it seems that we have created a fiscal compact for nothing, if there is a member state that has not signed it and there is one that would renegotiate the hard-won agreement. it is heartbreaking to have to go through all this 62 years after the eu was founded, but perhaps it is not too late to recognise that europe needs a complete change of direction.
in writing. the greek and french election results indicate that a significant proportion of european citizens do not feel that the european union is theirs. we need to hear them, because they also say that the eu is not doing enough to address the issues at hand. thus, the fact that almost one in five young europeans is unemployed, while youth unemployment rates in several countries reach 50 percent, is understated. this question should dominate this week's agenda. little is said about the fact that extremists are taking advantage of the disillusionment of young people to occupy key positions across europe. radical movements are listing eastern european citizens, double standards and insults to other countries are commonplace. there is less talk than there should be about unsustainable demographic trends. that europe has long been producing fewer children than it needs to sustain itself. and this leads to serious social tensions, supply chain disruptions. to get through this, we need to get back to basics. to the ones who created the union. first of all, we must strengthen the communities in accordance with the principles of christian democracy. second, we need to address the double standards and take action against extremists. and third, we need to restore the dignity of work. we need to remove the regulatory, legal and financial barriers that stand in the way of greater employment. anything else is symptomatic at best.
in writing. the past period has not been the golden age of europe. the negative effects of the global crisis are still being felt today. analysts are also in a difficult position: the depth of the recession is unprecedented in the history of modern society. the crisis has brought into sharper focus the contrast between the eurosceptic groups supporting confederation and those opposed to deeper integration. as regards greece, there is a risk that local elections will end with negative results, ignoring the ideals of europe. if the incoming greek government coalition does not support the tough government measures, it is questionable whether greece will receive the next tranche of the eu bailout, and thus could put the eurozone in even greater danger. the challenge for greece, as for europe as a whole, is the rise of eurosceptic nationalist parties, which are feared by young people and previous generations alike. europe must find a way out of the demographic crisis, not just the economic one. the previous social model is unsustainable: with an ageing society, young people see no future. eastern european aspirants in the west, westerners on other continents, in america, or in new zealand, imagine their future. i cannot stress enough the crucial importance for the future of europe of strengthening research and development, innovation and european industrial policy, demonstrating best practice and encouraging investment. we can't even consider five million young people out of work. for the sake of future generations, it is time to act!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the report claims that the arab spring is the greatest political transformation in the european neighbourhood since the fall of the berlin wall. this reminds me of zhou enlai, the famous former chinese prime minister, when he was asked for his assessment of the french revolution. he is said to have answered: ‘it is too early to tell’. democracy may have taken root in tunisia; there is more openness in morocco; there are encouraging signs in jordan. but what about bahrain? what about yemen? what about egypt? what about libya? it would be better to use slightly more cautious language. the report also claims that trade is an effective means of consolidating democracy and promoting stability. well, trade in itself is not an effective means of promoting democracy. it is important – no question about it, and we promote free trade – but trade alone can help dictatorships as well. trade does not necessarily lead to democracy. we need trade to be supplemented with institutions, the rule of law, constitutionality, equal opportunities and support for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to channel the fruits of trade to a wider segment of society. for democracy to take root there is a need for a middle class, which in turn can only flourish on broad-based economic growth – something which trade alone cannot guarantee. the report also calls for the reconsideration of odious debt. i am only familiar with big debt and small debt, but not odious debt. i remember very well when the berlin wall fell. no western state, no western country wanted to forgive communist debt, no matter how odious it must have been, so why do you not call on the italian state to take over all the debt? if mario monti were to agree to that, then your claim would be credible.
one of the major achievements of the union's wine reform is the single rule of origin. the question of quality european wines, however, cannot be a subject of dispute between states. several crossborder european wine regions have successfully resolved issues related to the winemaking process and protection of origin, such as the moselle wine region in the french-german-luxembourg area. this could be an example to follow in resolving the dispute over the use of the tokaji wine name and the method of production as soon as possible. this would serve the interests of both hungarian and slovak quality winemakers. unfortunately, the current situation is a dispute between the two countries. the socialist hungarian government has submitted a case to the european court of justice, but it would be very good if the slovak government, the hungarian government and the brussels commission agreed to protect the reputation of the king's wine, the king of wines.
as the former and current vice-chair of the european parliament's working group on minorities, i find it outrageous and draw your attention to the fact that the first measure of a newly formed left-liberal government in 2012 cannot, must not, be to withdraw the rights granted to national minorities. it is unacceptable that the newly formed romanian socialist liberal government immediately takes away the right of the 1.5 million hungarian minority to a legally established independent hungarian faculty at the medical university of marosvásárhely, which has been advocated for years and finally secured. it is unacceptable that the government's programme, for the first time since the change of regime, does not mention a single word about national minorities, that the leader of the government's liberal party declares minority rights to be excessive privileges. i ask the leaders of the socialist and liberal factions, who have fought so spectacularly and loudly for these rights, in many cases for alleged violations: what will they do now in their party families against real violations?
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. on 13 february 2012, we adopted the discharge for the financial year 2010 at an extraordinary meeting of the european parliament's social affairs committee. in the area of our competence, this means four european agencies, namely eurofund, cedefop, the agency for safety and health at work and the agency for the improvement of working conditions. we are pleased to note that the annual accounts reflect the actual financial position as at 31 december and that the procedures and cash flows for the year in question are in line with the agency's financial rules. our opinion, by the way, is in line with the court's. the same could be said for the transactions underlying the financial statements. at the same time, we stressed the need for closer cooperation in the design of future programmes and welcomed the commission's intention to monitor more closely the annual accounts of the member states, for example with regard to the european social fund, paying particular attention to the added value of european funds, and with regard to the globalisation fund, to look at the fact that only one third of the available funds have been called up. there is a lot of debate about this fund, but overall i have to say that we are satisfied, and this is the first year that we don't have to raise a serious objection about the management of the agencies.
the rapporteur is the committee on regional development. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first, let me make a comment. today, the 43rd plenary session of the european parliament is debating the report on the final accounts for about 170 minutes, which is no less than the fact that we can spend just under 4 minutes per report on the use of the money of the european taxpayers. to put it in a slightly different way, in the language of numbers, the european parliament has the fantastic ability to audit every minute about one billion euros of resources used in the budget of the european union, in the budget of various agencies. i think that if we have this fantastic ability, this body should be called a kind of european audit firm. perhaps this is an unworthy time to discuss such a vast matter. as regards cohesion policy, the error rate in the area of cohesion policy has decreased compared to the previous programming period. i think it is important to say this because the question of the error rate is always framed as a sort of checkerboard against cohesion policy after the final tally. in the area of cohesion policy, the error rate is mainly due to disregard for public procurement rules and for payment entitlements. i think that underlines the need for simplification in every way.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to give the opinion of the european agencies from the point of view of the european socialists. we are talking about agencies, which are an important part of the european institutional structure. they were set up by governments in agreement with parliament to serve the people of europe by carrying out the tasks assigned to them. so these creations are not based on chance. each agency has been established through a political, policy co-decision process and their operation is sometimes quite complex. therefore, these organisations are too important to be used for power and political games, and proposing to abolish them could have serious political consequences. agencies play an important role and it is therefore essential that they are operated and managed as efficiently as possible in order to safeguard their reputation in the eyes of the citizens of the union. at the same time, the european agencies manage less than half a percent of the eu budget. they are subject to the same close scrutiny as any other union body during the final accounting. we believe that their control should be proportionate to their weight in the budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to monitor the implementation of the budget in a way that is proportionate to the budgetary situation. we can't waste half our resources on cases that account for about half a percent of the budget. we had serious concerns this year with the reporter's very critical approach, because it was based on the assumption of guilt until proven guilty. instead, we believe that good faith and natural justice should be the basis until the opposite is proven. i think that our approach has been well justified by the speeches that have been made so far, because the opinions of the committees have been much more positive here in the plenary than the rapporteur's opinion, and i think that parliament as a whole can agree with that. now, a few points that have been consistently raised in the report: about potential conflicts of interest, particularly for agencies where industry or technical expertise is needed, how can we apply the most appropriate procedures and tools to prevent this. we therefore recommend, as the ombudsman has recommended, that special attention be paid to this issue. we strongly supported the court of auditors' special report on this subject and we strongly support the fact that the interinstitutional working party working within the council, the commission and parliament keeps this subject on the agenda. but that's no reason not to accept the 2010 final tally. so i would say that the reporting process is worth considering. other times, it is worthwhile to prepare a report with your colleagues from your own party and with the other parties from the other committees that will be better accepted in parliament.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would like to ask mr bové whether he would agree that we should call on the council to ensure that they send the right people to the management board. it is not the right way not to give discharge for 2010. we have to call on the council to make a good decision in selecting the management board. it is the council’s job and the responsibility of the member states. this may be right or wrong but it has nothing to do with the discharge. this is our point. we are very happy that the council is here. i ask mr bové if he would agree that we should ask the council to take measures to send the right people to any management board?
mr president, as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group on the agencies, i would like to inform the team that we have a mistake in the voting list, so they have to follow their shadow: me. we vote against the report.
in writing. − the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union was already one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency last year, given the importance of public access to eu legislation. i find it unacceptable that the electronic version of the legislation is not legally binding. this creates legal uncertainty as to the precise content of the union legislation currently available in the eur-lex database. it is regrettable that, due to the controversy surrounding the legal basis of the procedure, this report has not been presented to the ep plenary until now. it is clear that the union must adapt to the demands of a digitised world. i am voting in favour of the proposal to introduce electronic publication as soon as possible.
in writing. − in the european union, the competitiveness of regions is in line with regional economic growth. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2010 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. the regional airport is now a 'must-have' investment location, with modern logistics and one of the most efficient means of development. where it doesn't exist or doesn't work properly, you can't expect to find a serious investor today. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. as these air carriers concentrate on lower costs in their operations, they prefer to use smaller airports with adequate infrastructure instead of large, crowded airports. from here, they transfer their passengers to nearby major cities. the method has worked in western europe, and there is already an example of such cooperation in my home town of debrecen. in conclusion, i believe that european regional airports and air travel should be seen as a key factor in creating an efficient and well-functioning eu transport network that stimulates trade and provides mobility for the wider public, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european commission in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report draws attention to the fact that in the area of cohesion policy the estimated error rate increased to 7,7% in 2010, which is higher than in 2009. the final report underlines, inter alia, that greater emphasis should be placed on more effective control of financial planning instruments in the future. at the end of march, the committee decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts for 2010, and i supported the discharge in the vote in committee and in the vote in plenary.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2010 concerning the court's special reports on the european commission for the year 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court calls on the european commission to act more effectively vis-à-vis the member states and to immediately redeploy more officials to control state aid. it encourages the commission to consider whether it can use the lessons learned from the successful handling of the financial crisis to simplify its work in normal circumstances. i support the court's recommendations to further strengthen the commission's action in the framework of its supervisory and coordination powers. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that all payments were free from material error during the audits and that no deficiencies were detected during the audit when assessing the compliance of the supervisory and control systems with the financial regulation. the internal audit service is welcomed to meet the highest international standards of internal audit practice. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it is necessary for the european commission to obtain further information on the implementation of the edf at national and regional level and to ensure better visibility of all overseas activities supported by the union. however, it is of concern that in 2010 the supervisory and control systems were again only partially effective in ensuring the disbursement of edf payments, while the final report on the accounts states that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found in the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2010, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year ended 31 december 2010 were, overall, free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. however, the council did not provide parliament and the committee with a number of documents necessary for the closure of the accounts procedure, without which the financial year 2010 cannot be closed. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to postpone the granting of the exemption. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european court of justice in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2010, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2010. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors considered that the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year ended 31 december 2010 were, overall, free from material error, the most likely error rate being, in general, 0,4% in the area of administrative expenditure. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report concludes that, in order to make the court's work more effective, a larger proportion of officials should be devoted exclusively to audit tasks. the auditors examined in particular whether financial operations are properly recorded and published, whether they are carried out lawfully and regularly, and whether the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness apply to these operations. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work found that, for the financial year 2010, the payments by the economic and social committee for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were, overall, free from material error, the most likely error rate in the area of administrative expenditure being, in general, 0,4%. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its 2010 annual report, the court of auditors revealed errors in the recruitment of a permanent staff member and in the procurement of an interpreting service. the committee of the regions provided satisfactory explanations on the issues related to the errors identified and took immediate steps to avoid such errors in the future. it is important that, in order to enhance transparency, a declaration of financial interest of all members of the institution should be made available on the internet and regularly updated. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2010, the court of auditors stated that it did not raise any objections to the european ombudsman's financial year 2010. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that, for the financial year ended on 31 december 2010, the payments made under the entitlements to the administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor were, in general, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place for administrative and other expenditure effectively ensured the correctness of the payments. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the european union agencies, as i am convinced that these agencies have been fundamentally frugal and, although many of them have made significant transfers, they have nevertheless made good use of their resources and have expanded their activities in 2010 to promote common policies. the report adopted in committee clearly distinguished between expenditure on financial performance, human resources, internal and external control, which are essential to ensure that the functioning of the union's professional bodies is transparent to all european citizens.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important that the translation centre further develops its performance assessment capability by applying smart indicators for performance monitoring. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for the development of vocational training in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important that the centre applies the budgetary principles of commitment and transparency more effectively. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2010. although the court found the transactions underlying the academy's annual accounts to be legal and regular, it also highlighted the lack of consistency in the procedure used to approve claims for reimbursement of costs relating to such activities in relation to the costs of organising courses and seminars. in particular, the lack of supporting documents raises questions in certain cases. it is important that the academy address these deficiencies as soon as possible and that similar failures do not occur in the future. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the community fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to draw the attention of the office to the need to further improve the effectiveness of the annual work programme by setting concrete and measurable objectives, both at policy and operational level, and by considering the development of smart indicators as necessary in the court's report. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european aviation safety agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it should be emphasised that the agency should fully implement the activity-based structure of the operational budget in order to establish a clear link between the work plan and the financial forecasts and to strengthen performance monitoring and reporting. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament approves the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances from the financial audits it had carried out that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the agency should address the high level of carry-overs, as they have a negative impact on budget implementation and are not compatible with the principle of annuality. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report calls on the agency to inform the discharge authority of the steps it is taking to improve its control system through the strengthening of its financial processes, work processes, action plans and risk analyses. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report highlights that the main problem with the european environment agency is that several procurement procedural errors occurred in the management of the agency in 2010. the report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest, and the panel did not recommend granting a discharge until these conflicts were resolved. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the delivery of the final accounts, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2010 was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest and that the committee has not yet recommended granting the exemption in order to clarify them and to promote more efficient and economical management of the agency. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2010 was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2010 are reliable and fair in all material respects and that the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2010 is correct and that its operations and cash flows for the financial year 2010 are in accordance with the financial regulation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the promotion of gender equality, including the budget of the european institute for gender equality. i also voted in favour of not merging the abovementioned institution with the european union agency for fundamental rights, because i believe that, given that we have a separate policy on gender equality and the impact of differences between men and women, this issue cannot be dealt with purely from a budgetary point of view, that is to say, we must also include the functioning of the organisation concerned in a separate budget. only in this way will it be possible to explore the effects of gender equality expenditure and, in particular, to assess whether men and women benefit proportionally from the expenditure. at the same time, i agree that there needs to be a greater emphasis on the representation of control.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report highlights that the main problem with the european medicines agency is that the action plan to address the problems identified in last year's discharge procedure has not yet been approved by the agency's management board. the report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest, and the panel did not recommend granting a discharge until these conflicts were resolved. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the granting of the discharge, considering that further clarification of the agency's management in 2010 was required in order to receive the final accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it is necessary that the centre continues to ensure the uniform implementation of the approved procedure for the assessment of staff and to implement without delay the internal audit service's priority recommendation 9 and inform the discharge authority of the results achieved. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european maritime safety agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances in its audits that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report calls on the agency to apply public procurement procedures appropriately, but welcomes the inclusion of a separate annex in the agency's 2009 annual activity report to inform the budgetary authority about the negotiated procedures. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european network and information security agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has conducted its examinations with a view to establishing that the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency needs to implement a full inventory system and ensure the accuracy of accounting data, as well as improve the transparency of estimates and of those responsible. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to emphasise, however, that the agency should focus more on addressing the problem of carrying over appropriations from one year to the next, the systematic delays in the disbursement of payments and the significant changes in the work programme during the year. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european training foundation in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important that the foundation sets more stringent budgetary procedures in order to reduce the number of transfers during the financial year and to comply with its obligation to prepare a summary statement of the schedule of payments necessary to meet budgetary commitments made in previous financial years. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european agency for safety and health at work in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the financial statements for the year 2010 reflect the agency's actual financial position as at 31 december 2010 and that the operations and cash flows for the year are in accordance with the agency's financial regulation. the court of auditors has found the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2010 to be legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had satisfied itself that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2010 pointed out that the agency's statute was still not in conformity with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community. the agency did not receive any funding in 2010 to finance its operations and all expenditure incurred by the agency in the implementation of its budget was covered by the commission. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the foundation's main activity is to contribute to the creation of better living and working conditions in the community. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to encourage the foundation to provide evidence of the background to its staff selection decisions in order to ensure transparency in its recruitment procedures. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its approval to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2010, the court having determined that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final audit report concluded that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no significant deficiencies had been identified in the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning europol in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the european police office are fair and accurate in all respects for the financial year 2010 and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. at the end of march, the committee decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts for 2010, and i supported the discharge in the vote in committee and in the vote in plenary.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important that the agency improves its budgetary and staffing planning in line with the recommendation of the parliament to address the lack of consistency between the budgetary and staffing forecasts. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that its audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency has carried out a review of the remis underlying the budget estimates and the reimbursement claims. it is important that the agency carries out on-the-spot visits and ex-post checks on the use of grants by beneficiaries. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors found that the audits provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. in 2011, the agency took the measures required by the european parliament to ensure transparency, equal treatment and efficiency in staff recruitment procedures. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for artemis in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the discharge report emphasises that the joint undertaking should establish a procedure whereby non-member beneficiary countries pay part of their union contribution to the budget of the joint undertaking. furthermore, the evaluation and selection procedures should be modified to better align the supported projects with the european strategic objectives of the programme. the report also highlights that joint ventures are implemented in the framework of public-private partnerships, and that it is very important that conflicts of interest are properly addressed. it is essential that the joint undertakings, including artemis, inform the discharge authority adequately of the control mechanisms within their organisation that allow for the proper management and prevention of conflicts of interest. the final accounts report draws attention to the fact that the comprehensive review of the financial situation of the embedded computing systems did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the clean sky joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report welcomes the adoption of a comprehensive strategic internal audit plan for the period 2010-2012; however, the rapporteur misses the fact that certain key processes such as ex-ante examination of cost claims and ex-post audits were only planned to start in 2011. the final audit report concluded that the financial and compliance reviews of the aeronautical and environmental projects did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the joint undertaking should seek to encourage beneficiaries to identify strategically important projects and national programmes that could be implemented more effectively if managed at european level. the exemption report also highlights the need to involve additional national support organisations. the final accounts report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not reveal any major deficiencies. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines, in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. with regard to the management of the joint undertaking, the final report highlighted that the functioning of the internal governance structures is not yet optimal, there is still a lack of proactive communication activities and the available human resources capacity is not being used to the required extent. in the case of the joint undertaking, it should be highlighted that several implementing measures have been introduced in respect of the operational processes in order to avoid conflicts of interest. all persons involved in the activities of the joint undertaking shall comply with the rules laid down in advance. the final report shall also invite the joint undertaking to develop an action plan containing concrete measures and deadlines to prevent conflicts of interest and to strengthen transparency and to make it available to the discharge authority at a later stage. the final report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not identify any major deficiencies in the area of the innovative medicines initiative. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors stated that it was satisfied that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not reveal any major deficiencies in the areas examined. at the end of march, the committee decided to grant the discharge, to close the accounts for 2010, and i supported the discharge in the vote in committee and in the vote in plenary.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report welcomes the fact that the court of auditors has found the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 to be reliable and that the underlying financial transactions were legal and regular in all material respects. the rapporteur encourages the commission and the member states to strengthen the effectiveness of the application of the single european sky regulations in order to increase the efficiency of the investments made in the sesar project. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the 2010 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud will be drawn up in the context of the final accounts for 2010. as shadow rapporteur on the motion, i support the rapporteur's report, which gives a good account of the efforts made by the european commission, olaf and the member states in 2010 to protect the community's financial interests and to strengthen the sound use of community funds. the report shall also adequately identify areas where further action is needed and where action so far has not been successful. the number of irregularities detected increased by 2010 in almost all budgetary areas, with the exception of the pre-accession funds and traditional own resources. on the expenditure side of the overall budget, the proportion of irregularities attributable to fraud increased from 0,13% to 0,34%. in 2009, fraud cases amounted to only eur 180 million, while in 2010 this amount increased to eur 478 million. the irregularities reported occur most frequently at the implementation stage and to a greater extent at the selection and procurement stage. making the public procurement system more transparent and flexible could prevent a lot of mistakes. the commission has a duty to implement the reform of the public procurement system. i supported the vote on the report in committee and in plenary.
in writing. − as in previous years, this report contains the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. the report also examines a specific topic, agreed in advance by the commission and the member states, namely the risk of double funding in cohesion policy. in my view, the current rules do not always provide an adequate and sufficient means of detecting and preventing the misuse of eu funds, for example, in view of the different rules of the member states on the matter, in particular as regards the sanctioning of fraud. different rules on procedures, offences and penalties in different member states also constitute such an obstacle, hampering fraud investigations and criminal proceedings between member states. i would still consider it necessary to establish a uniform legislative framework in order to harmonise the member states' legislation. however, the question is whether the detailed rules which are the responsibility of the member states can be effectively harmonised, given the differences between them, and, above all, how much the member states concerned contribute to this. i believe that the rapporteur's findings are correct, that the commission's annual reports are based on inaccurate and incomparable data, and that this raises questions about the purpose of the reports in general. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in the context of the digital agenda for europe, the commission has set itself the objective of reducing the gap between roaming and domestic charges to almost zero by 2015. this objective can be further achieved by finding a solution that guarantees competition and the effective functioning of the roaming market beyond the deadline. efforts to spread broadband networks can also support the spread of substitutes for roaming services. the new regulation (roaming iii) also regulates roaming charges for calls and sms and introduces an important new element: the euro data rate for retail data roaming services. the proposal also introduces a number of structural measures to increase competition, while maintaining maximum prices in order to provide customers with a 'safety net' for the period during which competition itself reduces prices. it should be emphasised that from 1 july 2014 customers will be able to conclude a mobile roaming contract separate from the national roaming contract. this will improve the competitive situation in the roaming market and is one possible direction of development. in conclusion, the report is extremely timely and clearly in the interest of the citizens of the union, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the regulation establishes a common approach to ensure that users of public mobile communications networks do not pay excessive prices for roaming services within the union when travelling within the union, compared to national tariffs. unfortunately, roaming charges are still unjustifiably higher than domestic prices and the cost-price relationship remains far from what it would be under genuine competitive conditions. high charges are a disincentive to the use of mobile devices for cross-border travel within the union. to ensure a functioning internal market and to protect consumers, we need to guarantee fair roaming charges for eu citizens travelling for leisure or work. i believe that we must achieve as soon as possible the complete elimination of the distinction between national and roaming tariffs. the proposal is a major step towards this objective, as it reduces the price of telephone calls and sms messages within the territory of other member states and forces market players to compete even in the case of data roaming.
in writing. - traditional media used to be the mouthpiece of a few. now, with the rise of the internet, and the advancement of technology, there are new ways of committing identity theft. the electronic media have become a major source of manifestations that push the boundaries of freedom of expression and often go beyond them. slander has become an international issue. unfortunately, when the regulation on non-contractual obligations (rome ii) was adopted, the protection of personal rights was excluded from its scope. in my view, the conflict-of-laws rules on tort law should be harmonised in the interests of transparency and predictability. while member states are free to determine the balance between the individual fundamental rights at their discretion, it is time, in the interests of legal certainty, to clarify at community level the law applicable to liability for infringements of privacy and personality rights.
in writing. − since the fall of the berlin wall, the arab spring has been seen as the most significant political transformation in europe's neighbourhood. this process provides a great opportunity to align the eu's trade and foreign policy interests with the fundamental values of human rights, democracy and a free society. it is recognised that the eu has exclusive competence in trade and investment policy, which allows the union to respond effectively to unrest. there is a growing feeling among civil societies in the southern mediterranean countries that the eu should take a more proactive role in promoting the political and economic transformation of the region. as the economic crisis of 2008 directly affected the main sectors that drive the economies of the southern mediterranean countries and as the turmoil of the arab spring in tunisia, egypt, syria and libya further exacerbated the economic decline of these countries, i consider it necessary to strengthen the links in order to create investment opportunities. this strategy should be implemented in full cooperation with the other policy areas. the european investment bank (eib) plays an important role in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the southern mediterranean region through the euromediterranean investment and partnership facility (emip). these companies need the necessary investments to innovate and restructure in a way that will enable them to exploit the opportunities offered by the eu's internal market. i also welcome the latest extension of the ebrd's mandate and hope that the bank's experience in eastern europe will bear fruit in the southern neighbourhood.
first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur busuttil for this excellent report, not only because it is a great honour, but also because i find it very timely and very useful, as it highlights the importance of a tool which allows us to deal more precisely and transparently with the internal market instruments and the tasks ahead of us. i agree with my colleagues who say that, despite its long history and its many benefits, the internal market is still not working perfectly. our ultimate aim is precisely to make this market increasingly beneficial for all european citizens, so that all players without exception can benefit from it. the results of the table in the report before us show a positive trend, and this is a very important step, but it is by no means a cause for complacency. it is time to take a closer look at the areas where we are still lagging behind and where further efforts are needed. this report helps us to do this and also shows that the favourable overall indicators should not obscure the details, the problems that still exist today. to mention one example, public procurement, which accounts for some 15-20% of european gdp. if we can fully open up these markets and apply european legislation properly , then governments can make significant savings for the future. we must be clear that europe will be more competitive if it pays sufficient attention to generating economic growth alongside strict fiscal policies. i would also like to stress the importance of strengthening solvit, which is also an initiative of the commission. it is very important that we see what deficits we have in the area of law enforcement. but that's not enough. we need to strengthen the one-stop shop, create more information portals and better coordination mechanisms, and we also need to eliminate overlapping tools. our task is therefore to give effect to the legislation in a way that meets people's expectations in terms of jobs, growth and security. i'm convinced that we don't need these scorecards to pick a task, but to understand exactly where we are right now. i welcome the progress made by the member states so far and encourage them - together with the rapporteur - to step up coordination and further increase transparency.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues.
that concludes the agenda item.
the next item is the report by mrs rita borsellino, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the european union's internal security strategy (2010/2308 (ini)) (a7-0143/2012).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. as the shadow rapporteur on the homeland security strategy, i have to thank mrs borsellino for the openness and flexibility with which she has taken the people's party proposals. our successful compromises prove that when we address the problems and challenges of homeland security on a professional basis, without prejudice, we can find common ground and rise above political differences. the internal security strategy is an important tool for effectively tackling many forms of crime. the focus is on combating different forms of international organised crime, such as mafia-type or 'white-collar' crime and money laundering, and on strengthening the european counter-terrorism. it is essential to develop a common threat assessment system and to better coordinate member states' practices for the effective protection of critical it infrastructures. cooperation between the public and private sectors, as well as between civilian and military actors within the union, is essential to ensure the cybersecurity of the eu. the newly created cyber security centre also serves this purpose. the definition of european critical infrastructures is an urgent task. the protection of the external borders, not least the prevention and control of natural and man-made disasters, requires joint action. in order to achieve these objectives, it is essential to allocate proportionate budgetary resources to them, and to ensure that the measures included in the internal security strategy are appropriately reflected in the 2014-2020 budget.
the next item is the report by cornelis de jong, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu approach to criminal law (2010/2310 (ini)) (a7-0144/2012).
in writing. there can be no effective consumer protection when consumers continue to feel that they are being served by individual businesses, when they do not understand the terms of the contract or when they have little hope of protection in their legal dispute. at the same time, i believe that effective consumer protection cannot exist without cooperative and consumer-friendly businesses. i would like to point out that i will soon be submitting a written declaration to confirm this, in order to create a consumer-friendly, business-friendly trademark, because as consumer complaints show, consumers still feel the imbalance and the total vulnerability that exists between the consumer and the business side in the case of consumer interest. this can be done mainly, but not exclusively, by amending the legislation to a degree and quality that has not been achieved so far. last but not least, i cannot fail to mention consumer awareness, which is the basis for strong and effective consumer protection. without awareness, there is no prevention, and without prevention, there can be no protection. this is why it is necessary for consumers to know which organisations to turn to in the event of a legal dispute, from the education of young people to the assistance of the elderly. mrs perez's own-initiative report is exemplary, since it concerns a very sensitive and urgent area. i thank the rapporteur for his timely remarks and i am voting in favour of this report.
promoting access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises is one of the key areas for reflection and is now appropriate. in this area, the urgent issues should include better mobilisation of the structural funds, faster implementation of ongoing projects, increased eib support and a rapid discussion of the project bond proposal. the question is, will it be enough? in its present form, i think not. i believe that the current grouping of smes is not suitable for this sector to be able to dynamically adapt to the european union market. my dear officer! it would be worthwhile to consider whether the practice of financing smes should be changed: instead of post-financing, pre-financing should be risked. i believe that this would improve their access to the market and play a decisive role in job creation. your thesis could be realized in this way: the 25 smes would be able to take up the ... (the president interrupted the member)
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises play a very important role in the european economy. it is therefore very important to facilitate their access to the resources of the structural funds, which can provide them with investment opportunities and funds that can also mean their survival during the economic and financial crisis. the instruments and forms of support currently in place do not always reach the beneficiaries who really need them. unnecessary administrative burdens and the obligation to pre-finance remain a problem for the majority of smes. the definition of smes would need to be reconsidered, as the 2005 definition is considered to be outdated in several respects. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 99% of european companies, and their importance is shown by the fact that 85% of new european jobs were created by smes between 2005 and 2010. these businesses are clearly the key to growth and development in a europe emerging from the crisis, and it is therefore important that the commission should support, by all possible means, the access of smes to structural funds.
we must send a very strong warning to the ukrainian government. i support the position of the european commission, i support the position of european leaders who are refusing to sign the association agreement, to meet the leaders of the yanukovych system. at the same time, a certain form of dialogue must be maintained. it is clear that the lawsuit against timoshenko is a political lawsuit, which is unacceptable. timoshenko must be released immediately, although i must add that timoshenko is not joan of arc, not a born lamb, but this conception lawsuit is unacceptable. the rule of law must be restored in ukraine, we have all said. i agree that we have little time to put pressure on the yanukovych government. there is another element of the lack of rule of law that i would like to bring up in this debate: it is extremely worrying that the ukrainian authorities, despite requests from the council of europe, several meps, the minority leaders concerned, have not taken into account minority considerations in the design of the constituencies for the parliamentary elections. earlier, several years ago in ukraine, in transcarpathia, this could be solved, but now there was no political will on the part of the current ukrainian leadership. thank you for your attention.
rapporteur. − mr president, since the regulation on the european citizens’ initiative (eci) has been applicable as of 1 april this year, it is parliament’s responsibility to adapt our rules of procedure in order to ensure the smooth organisation of the public hearings to which initiative organisers are entitled following successful ecis. i am pleased to tell you that the first proposed eci was registered on 9 may, europe day, and that it has been followed by five further ecis so far. i am also very pleased that so many of you show such an interest in the eci. i have therefore made the possible involvement of any parliamentary committee in the organisation of public hearings a priority in my report. it is our task to make sure that the eci is a strong, credible, agenda-setting instrument and a tool for participatory democracy in the eu. there are a few technical aspects of my report and a voting list which i would like to clarify before we proceed to the vote. firstly, in order to arrive at a reasonable compromise, i decided to vote in favour of amendment 4 as tabled by the alde group and to withdraw my support for part 5 of amendment 1 as voted in the committee. secondly, in order to guarantee a coherent final adopted text, i would like to propose the following: if amendment 5 is adopted but without part 3, i propose that we vote on part 3 of amendment 1 and, if necessary, on part 3 of amendment 3; then again, if amendment 1 is adopted but without part 3, i propose that we vote on part 3 of amendment 3. i hope you could follow all that! thank you very much for your support. and of course i will ask for electronic votes on split vote part 3 of amendment 5 and, if needed, on split vote part 3 of amendment 1 and of amendment 3.
mr president, i did ask if you could kindly hold an electronic vote on this.
mr president, i feel very sorry as we have already voted on the second part, because i actually asked for an electronic vote on the third part. so thank you again for the electronic vote on the second, but i kindly ask for a vote on the third part of amendment 5. thank you.
in writing. − the outcome of the vote made it clear that consumer protection is important for everyone, but effective consumer protection cannot be achieved without real action, as consumers continue to feel as vulnerable as before. the european parliament's continued consumer-friendliness is a positive trend and it is also welcome that meps have voted in favour of strengthening consumer protection. but as long as the terms of the banks' contracts remain incomprehensible, as long as they are limited by a code of conduct rather than by binding legislation in their unilateral contract modifications, there will continue to be a huge gap between consumers and these businesses. similarly, the eviction moratorium can only be considered as a temporary relief, since the distressed debtor will in any case be forced to leave his house or apartment after the expiry of the period, and consumers cannot expect their salaries to increase in proportion to the rate at which the repayment instalments of the loans may increase. at the same time, it is therefore necessary to strengthen the future role of conciliation bodies, which play a vital role in the simple, free and rapid settlement of consumer disputes. but this will only have an impact on consumer protection if all the substantive changes that have long been advocated by consumer organisations are implemented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that if we are to succeed in creating a single internal market that is open to the world but can also build on its own internal strength, then european efforts must be matched by performance at member state level. as i said in my speech during the keynote debate, our job now is to enforce the law without fear or favour, and we must do so in the future. it is very important to meet citizens' expectations for jobs, growth and security. if we are to keep up with the changes, we need to make the regulation sufficiently flexible and we need to recognise that not everything can be controlled from brussels. once again, i thank the rapporteur, mr busuttil, for his humble work, which highlights the importance of a tool that allows us to deal more precisely and transparently with the instruments of the internal market and the tasks ahead of us.
in writing. − in turkey, all relevant ministries are working hard to launch projects that will make the legislation to improve women's living standards effective. more importantly, these ministries are working together on gender equality. however, i should also note that the turkish statistical office published a significant figure last year: among the five million turkish citizens over the age of 15, 84 percent of the illiterate population are women. the employment rate for women is not very encouraging either, with the current employment rate for women in the eu at 63.9%, compared to 26.1% for turks. a dual trend seems to be emerging in the way women are valued and judged in turkey: globalization, which allows them to be more fully fulfilled in their private and professional lives, and religious tradition, which continues to permeate the fabric of society. i congratulate the rapporteur on her timely findings and i also particularly welcome the fact that her report is based on secondary analysis and interviews. i hope that the report will be used by interested parties and that the positive trend outlined in the report will continue in the future.
in writing. − i voted for the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament with regard to the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. i welcome the clarification of the rules of procedure of parliament. i believe it is important that in a body such as the european parliament, which is directly elected by the citizens, the institution of the citizens' initiative should be supported as effectively as possible. the european parliament can contribute most effectively to citizens' initiatives by organising a public hearing, which it must hold within three months of the submission of the initiative to the commission. i support the commission's participation in these public hearings and agree with the clarification of the circumstances of the hearing in the regulation. as a member of parliament, i support the idea of having the organisers of the initiative heard in our own constituency at public hearings. on the other hand, as a member of the committee on petitions, i recognise the special role and specific experience of this committee in relation to citizens' initiatives.
in writing. − on 1 april this year, the european citizens' initiative launched a new instrument of participatory democracy, giving eu citizens a genuine political initiative. citizens can thus be directly involved in eu legislation, further enhancing the eu's democratic legitimacy. since the regulation provides for the possibility for organisers to present a citizens' initiative at a public hearing if they succeed in collecting one million signatures, it is now necessary to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament. to this end, the report shall provide a stable procedural framework for the smooth organisation and conduct of public hearings. the committee responsible for the subject shall be responsible for organising the public hearing in parliament with the assistance of the committee responsible for petitions. this is to ensure that citizens can refer important matters to the most appropriate forums. the committee on petitions has decades of experience in this field, but it is the members of the committee responsible who are really able to influence the future of the sectoral policy concerned.
in writing. economic growth has slowed or stagnated in most eu countries and even declined in a number of member states, including hungary. in europe, 25 million people are unemployed, half the young people in greece and spain, and one fifth in most of the member states are unable to find work. it is sad that future generations are increasingly looking outside europe for a way to prosper. unilateral restrictions not coupled with economic stimulus are narrow, affecting all but the richest segments of society and affecting all social groups severely. disillusionment, hopelessness and social exclusion are driving the tide of extremism, as the recent election results in greece show. opinion polls show a rise in populist, radical forces in many places. alarming data and facts prove that the crisis management so far has not led to results. if the pro-european forces do not win a majority in the june elections in greece, it could lead to disaster. the mediterranean country has the potential to attract member states from the european periphery and from the region of eastern and central europe. finally, the recognition is maturing in the governments of the member states, which have so far rejected the solutions long advocated by the left, that in addition to responsible fiscal policy, economic stimulus measures, deepening european integration and solidarity, and the elimination of internal imbalances in the euro area are needed to avoid even greater trouble. the concrete steps to achieve this will be decided at the summit on wednesday.
in writing. the french presidential elections and the recent changes of government in denmark, slovakia and romania mark a political turn, a breakthrough for the left. the question is, is there an economic turnaround? will the european union finally abandon its conservative economic policy, which is focused exclusively on deficit reduction? the situation in greece and the difficulties in spain, portugal and ireland clearly show that restrictions are not enough in themselves. the capacity of european societies to cope with the crisis is limited and it will take years, even decades, to eliminate the deficit. we need to find a new economic model that offers an alternative to the free market capitalism that is causing the crisis. it is worth mentioning why the scandinavian countries were able to effectively resist the crisis. in these countries, widespread social benefits are financed by high taxes, and the financial and banking systems are subject to strict regulations. european countries need to focus on investments for long-term growth, such as modernising infrastructure and energy networks, research and development, eradicating extreme poverty and improving education. the costs of these investments should not be taken into account in the deficit calculation under the stability and growth pact. we should introduce european project bonds to finance investments for growth.
we also have a lot of work to do in the area of gay rights, and we do not have a horizontal anti-discrimination directive that would ensure a broad level of non-discrimination. free movement within the union is not guaranteed for same-sex couples, as there is no mutual recognition of civil status. there has been no action at european level against hate speech and hate acts, although this is also considered important by the council of europe recommendation. but in addition to the legal environment, it is very important to have effective non-discrimination, to create an accepting social environment that respects diversity. we have a lot of work to do in this area across europe, and political actors, the media, education have a very important role to play. hungary has been mentioned several times here. on the one hand, hungary could be proud to have the eighth most favourable legislative environment against discrimination in the union. but we see that this is the second time that the police have tried to ban the gay pride day, budapest pride, that the police have to protect the participants of budapest pride against extremist counter-protesters, that the city's leadership is trying in every way to make it impossible to hold euro gays. so we see that there's a contradiction, and political rhetoric often reinforces exactly that, the attitudes that we don't want to see. we have a lot of work to do: the commission needs to monitor the implementation and transposition of anti-discrimination directives and we would like to ask it to look at the implementation of eu anti-hate legislation. the council should adopt a horizontal anti-discrimination directive and member states should do much to create an inclusive environment through training, awareness and closer dialogue with civil society organisations. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 149 (8) of the ec treaty. )
the answer, very briefly, is no. this cooperation clearly does not work in the hungarian parliament, precisely because jobbik's position is completely unacceptable to the socialist group, not only on these issues but also on other issues. and i see precisely that the fidesz government is what very often pushes to extremes. the representatives of the fidesz government are the ones who are obstructing the euro gays event in every way, and it is precisely this police that has banned or not allowed the gay pride day to take place during this time. this has never happened before. i have many other things to say, but i don't think i have time for this.
in writing. the european union has no place for any form of negative discrimination and all forms of harassment must be combated. no acts of violence against sexual, ethnic or national minorities are permitted. this is the tangible essence, the foundation, of the protection of fundamental human rights. i, and the hungarian people's party delegation of which i am a member, have consistently condemned all such discrimination for years. at the same time, as someone who fights against this discrimination, i find it saddening and thought-provoking that a parliament which adopts a resolution against homophobia every six months has not adopted a resolution for five years against the very serious violations of the law and the humiliating discrimination against linguistic and national minorities which affects hundreds of thousands of people in many member states of the union. 10% of the eu population is affected by this type of discrimination on a daily basis. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the motions for resolutions tabled by the socialist, liberal and green groups on the fight against homophobia are based on the same slip: in the case of hungary, amendments tabled in the municipal assembly of the capital are stigmatising a country, which has failed to vote on them in the local assembly. we know very well here in parliament what the fate of the rejected amendments is, what they mean: absolutely nothing. therefore, to brand hungary implies political ill will. the resolution, and other similar texts, make the ep's work seem less serious.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 may 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report by marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the trade imbalance between the eu and china (2010/2301 (ini)) (a7-0141/2012).
in writing. the eu's trade deficit with china is growing unabated. in 10 years, it more than tripled, jumping from 50 billion euros to 170 billion euros. this huge imbalance can only be partly explained by the fact that china is more competitive in labour costs. as indicated in the report, the asian country and the companies operating there engage in a number of practices that are contrary to international trade law and practice, thereby gaining further competitive advantage. since china joined the wto, it has been the biggest beneficiary, the real beneficiary of globalization. however, the wto brings not only benefits but also obligations. it is unacceptable that beijing supports export-producing companies in various ways, such as through export credit schemes. the usa has recently taken safeguard measures against chinese dumped products. the eu must protect european jobs and take similar action against illegal imports. for example, it is in the interest of the entire world economy that the chinese government does not artificially keep the yuan exchange rate low in the interest of exporting companies. european companies wishing to export to china, especially those who sell agricultural products such as meat, face a number of technical and legal obstacles that are unusual in international practice. the commission has not established that the chinese exporting producers are in a position to benefit from the measures in force.
i can only welcome the report before us because it finally clearly states that financial transactions were undervalued compared to other transactions and because it offers a real, tangible solution to the economic situation in crisis. this is the first step in a european crisis management that will not only be implemented at the level of international fiscal conventions, but will also have a practical impact. i regret that my new european tax cannot be implemented on a global scale, or even perhaps on a union-wide scale. however, it can still provide significant revenue to the european economy. enhanced cooperation is a good tool to help financial transactions develop in a more regulated, traceable way, thus excluding the possibility of a complete disconnection of the financial sector from the real economy once again. the report also has the merit of starting very correctly from the assumption that the financial world, which was one of the main causes of the crisis by its speculative and short-term subservient behaviour, did not help in managing the crisis, but rather - if you like - wanted to be the beneficiary of it. this contradiction is addressed in the report and transactions for which no transaction tax has been collected are professionally excluded, thereby increasing transparency and reducing the risk of tax avoidance and evasion. i therefore recommend that the report be adopted.
the early introduction of a european financial transaction tax is also of paramount importance to make clear to european citizens that the union is not placing the burden of the crisis on them but on the financial sector. a transaction tax at european level would not apply to the general public, but to high-value business transactions, speculative operations. it would be more equitable to share the burden of crisis management. in contrast, in hungary, the government is preparing to introduce new restrictions affecting the population under the banner of a transaction tax. this transaction tax has nothing to do with what we're discussing. this new tax, which will be effective in the future, will be charged on retail transactions, including cash withdrawals and deposits, bank transfers, credit card purchases. this is unacceptable! the union transaction tax applies to the financial sector, national and international oligarchs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it offers a tangible solution to the current economic situation. this is the first step in european crisis management, which will not only take place at the level of international fiscal conventions, but will also have practical effects. the report and thus the tax excluded pension funds, an important factor in preventing the savings of the population from being judged and regulated in the same way as the speculative financial transactions that triggered the financial crisis. furthermore, as this new european tax is unlikely to be introduced globally - even in europe, unfortunately - the report refers to enhanced cooperation as a novelty, which is a really good tool and can help to make financial transactions more regulated and traceable, thus preventing the possibility of a complete disconnection of the financial world from the real economy. the reporting shall correctly and professionally exclude transactions for which no transaction tax has been collected, thereby increasing transparency and reducing the risk of tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. − china is currently one of the world's largest economic powers and the eu's second largest trading partner. i agree with the rapporteur that china's economic development and accession to the wto is not only beneficial but also a responsibility in terms of china's positive role in the world economic order. i voted for the report which states that there is an imbalance between the two regions, that there is a trade advantage for china through various means. however, china should also not forget that the lack of growth in europe is also a problem for the chinese economy. the report therefore recommends continuing reciprocity in trade. china is still not complying satisfactorily with wto rules and therefore the wto should not grant met to the country before 2016 without fulfilling all the criteria. european companies are prevented from accessing the national market by chinese intervention and chinese regulations are not clear and transparent. in public procurement, foreign investors in china cannot participate on an equal footing with their chinese competitors, which is contrary to the treatment of foreigners in european public procurement. the protection of intellectual property rights remains a concern in the country, and china should fight against counterfeiting and piracy.
we are now discussing a very good report based on excellent commission material. i would like to focus on water and waste management as a resource efficiency issue. 2012 is also the year of the water review. the union is far behind in terms of water conservation, in terms of reusing water, compared to israel, for example, and i think it is very important that we take steps to solve the water problems of the mediterranean region, but also of central europe, the danube basin. in waste management, i agree with those who want to ban the dumping of recyclable waste altogether. it is unfortunate that my country, hungary, is facing european ambitions in waste management. the right-wing government has completely abolished the existing waste management system, and the commission has unfortunately opened an infringement procedure.
the european youth unemployment rate is alarming, as has been mentioned many times today, and even more alarming when you look beyond the average figures. we see that disparities between member states have increased in this area, and that within member states there are also very large disparities in opportunity, especially at the expense of those with low levels of schooling. the feeling of youthful redundancy is a good breeding ground for the spread of extremist ideas and a cause of many human tragedies. we have urgent practical work to do, we have to use the opportunities offered by the internal market to make young people truly mobile, but we have to do it in a way that does not absorb well-qualified, highly qualified young people from countries with a better labour market. we must solve the transition from education to the labour market, we must not take resources away from education - as we see in many countries, these resources are being reduced - and we must pay special attention to disadvantaged young people, roma, disabled people, immigrant young people. it's only through a coordinated, targeted program that we can avoid an entire generation feeling lost, with all the consequences of this. (the opponent has consented to answer a question marked with a blue card under article 149 (8) of the ec treaty. )
it's a two-card answer. i think that the program that started about two years ago -- the microcredit program -- could be a great opportunity in this regard as well. it's exactly the kind of thing that helps people who don't have credit. and for people who are just starting out, and maybe they have an idea that they haven't tried yet, it's very difficult for banks to give them loans. i think if we develop this program in this way, it's going to be a very big help.
it's unbelievable that in 2012, more than 60 years after the birth of european integration, 55 years after the principle of equal pay for equal work was established, with a series of wars behind us, beyond economic crises and currently experiencing it, there is still more than a 16 percent pay gap between male and female workers. the bauer report is a fine piece of work. it thoroughly analyses problem areas such as job classification, social dialogue, possible sanctions, the introduction of collective redress, which i am particularly pleased to see. i believe that with publicity and increased transparency, this wage gap can be significantly reduced. quite simply, commissioner, i am thinking here of the need for economic organisations to include the statistical statement of the wage gap in their annual accounts and thus to ask for the public's help in closing this gap. i congratulate the rapporteur and support this report.
contracts must be respected, it's an old roman legal principle, and no one has ever questioned it, and this is true even if the crisis in many countries is creating difficult, complicated situations, serious domestic political debates. we have this in our own countries, and yet we are constantly pressuring each other to abide by the agreements we have made, whether they are internal agreements or external agreements. what happened here is not a casual breach of contract, but what appears to be a very deliberate departure from the contract. there are at least three points here that constitute a willful breach of contract. you can't discriminate between member countries, you discriminate between member countries. the 10% increase above the average is when the safeguard clause can come into force, and that 10% should be counted on the 27 member states, not on the 8 or the 4 or the ones we are going to cut. consequently, they're in breach of contract here, too. and the third violation of the treaty is that the established quota should be above the last governing quota, and here it is just the opposite, it is below it, instead of three thousand, it is set at two thousand. so that suggests a pretty serious awareness. and fourthly, there was no consultation before these measures were introduced. this is an element that calls into question good intentions, and i agree with my colleague mr busuttil that we expect a firm and clear position from the european commission, and that this swiss provision, this breach of the treaty, is unacceptable.
in writing. − the hungarian people's party delegation believes that there is no place for any negative discrimination in the european union, that all such harassment must be condemned and that action must be taken against it. no acts against sexual, ethnic, national or linguistic minorities shall be permitted. this is the essence and the foundation of the protection of fundamental human rights. our delegation nevertheless voted against some of the paragraphs put to a separate vote and abstained from the final vote on the draft decision because it contained factual errors, omissions and proposals which, under the principle of subsidiarity, are now clearly a matter for the member states. the legitimate fight against homophobia must be separated from the slippage of individual political groups.
in writing. − the hungarian people's party delegation believes that there is no place for any negative discrimination in the european union, that all such harassment must be condemned and that action must be taken against it. no acts against sexual, ethnic, national or linguistic minorities shall be permitted. this is the essence and the foundation of the protection of fundamental human rights. our delegation nevertheless voted against some of the items put to the separate vote and abstained from the final vote on the resolution because the motion for a resolution contained factual errors, omissions and proposals which, under the principle of subsidiarity, are now clearly a matter for the member states. the legitimate fight against homophobia must be separated from the slippage of individual political groups.
in writing. − i find it sad that the noble and welcome goal of combating prejudice related to ethnic, religious or gender identity is being reduced to a tool of a political campaign by the political left, which is increasingly hostile, often violent and intolerant. my abstention from the closing vote does not mean that i do not fully agree that homophobia is an intolerant behavior that violates the dignity of our fellow human beings. it is unacceptable, however, that the resolution is riddled with slips, untruths and unabashed interference with legislation which is strictly a matter for the member states. i find it outrageous, for example, that the original text attempts to blame the shameful manifestations of a far-right party in hungary on the ruling party. the previous people's party resolution, known as the weber-bus-style, is in my opinion an exemplary vote in favour of protecting human dignity and opposing all forms of prejudice, but it is also tolerant and balanced, and does not contain any slippages and exaggerations that can be attributed to political marketing. i am very sorry that this resolution will not be put to the vote, because i would be proud of it even if, in the light of the mathematics of parliament, the resolution were to be voted down by the majority of the left.
in writing. − as a consequence of the protracted european economic crisis, unemployment among young europeans increased from 14.7% in 2008 to 22.1% in 2011. of those under 25, 5.5 million are unemployed. the aim of the plenary debate is to call on the european commission to take action on the future and employment opportunities of europe's young people and to highlight the seriousness of the situation. at the beginning of 2012, the european commission sent action groups to eight member states where youth unemployment is well above the eu average. the task of the action groups is to draw up action plans to promote youth employment. the french rapporteur reports to the european commission on the results achieved so far by the commission with the help of these action groups and asks the commissioner responsible what additional means and resources the commission intends to focus on job creation, in particular on tackling youth unemployment. i supported the rapporteur and the draft resolution which seeks to solve one of europe's most pressing problems.
in writing. − i supported the report, which aims to make recommendations to improve legislation to close the gender pay gap. it also proposes the establishment of a europe-wide strategy. the gender pay gap in the european union is still at an average of 16.4% and is showing an increasing trend in some member states. the reasons for this are complex and interrelated. i agree with the intention of the report to draw the commission's attention to the review of the 2006 directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. i consider the recommendations for change to be comprehensive and thorough. i consider it a remarkable initiative for the european parliament to introduce a 'european women and business' award to employers who support women and female managers and apply the principle of equal pay.
in writing. − following the european parliament's 2008 decision, member states have not done everything possible to ensure the principle of equal pay for men and women as required by the decision. the decision created the possibility of applying sanctions and penalties to employers who do not comply with the principle of equal pay. member states should use all the means laid down in this decision to reduce the gender pay gap. the aim of the bauer report is to call on the european commission to review and amend the existing directive in order to tackle discrimination against women as effectively as possible. the report makes specific proposals in nine different areas and calls on the commission to prepare by 15 february 2013 a revised draft directive that more effectively protects the rights of women workers, taking into account these recommendations. the pp group supports the report in the plenary vote.
in writing. - i have supported the bauer edit report as it is based on a principle already laid down in the treaty of rome. it must finally be made clear that just as no distinction between men and women is to be made in fundamental human rights, neither male nor female workers can be discriminated against in any matter, including matters of pay. the report before us is very comprehensive and thorough, and it addresses the issues that have been raised by the commission on several occasions, but which still have major shortcomings, and which are still problematic in this area, such as the classification of jobs, social dialogue and possible sanctions against certain employers. the inclusion of collective redress in the report's recommendations is particularly important, as it is a very novel recognition that, although it is not mandatory, it is increasingly, and now not only in the economic sphere, a redress that is recommended to all member states in order to make the fundamental european policies and values applicable in everyday life.
in writing. − i consider the swiss labour market restrictive measure to be discriminatory and my parliamentary colleagues strongly condemn it. our approach is clear: we believe that treaties should not be interpreted in a discriminatory way on the basis of nationality and that they should be respected even in difficult economic times. moreover, switzerland should not forget that union citizens are also a benefit to the swiss economy. i hope that it will be established urgently that switzerland cannot take such a selective measure after 30 april 2011, thereby accelerating the withdrawal of the decision, which has no legal or economic basis and cannot be justified by the number of eu citizens wishing to settle in switzerland.
in writing. the gsp aims to provide access to the eu market for developing countries that need it most, by applying preferential tariffs. however, the current regulation covers practically all non-european countries except the developed oecd countries. many of these countries have economies that are more competitive than the eu's or provide subsidies to exporting companies in breach of wto rules. in many cases, the competitive advantage is caused by supporting energy prices, which encourage higher co2 emissions. meanwhile, the eu is imposing significant additional costs on companies to meet climate objectives. these unjustified advantages harm not only the interests of european workers and european industry but also those of the truly needy states, as they force their less competitive products out of the market. the new system will result in the termination of the preferential treatment of certain highly competitive asian economies such as china and thailand after a transitional period. i've asked you to do this before. i welcome the commission's proposal to exclude from the preferential tariff preferences more competitive and richer countries such as saudi arabia, kuwait, russia and brazil. under the new system, the number of countries receiving preferential treatment will be reduced by more than half, from 176 to about 80. this will help ensure that developing countries that really need it can enjoy preferential market access.
mr. chairman, commissioner, fellow members of the house. i would like to address the role and importance of human rights in the eu's bilateral relations in connection with the report just presented. it is of the utmost importance that respect for and protection of human rights be an important element and an unavoidable condition of any cooperation agreement. this is particularly true when the human rights of eu citizens are violated by a particular country, and i am thinking here of bolivia, to take as an example the case of elder tóásó, who has been in pre-trial detention in bolivia since 16 april 2009, and this temporary status, which expired on 16 april, cannot be maintained under the current bolivian law. toásó has not been released to date. your right to a fair trial is being violated. i would therefore ask the relevant eu bodies to take human rights into account when concluding these conventions.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work in contributing to the strengthening of the role of volunteering in the union. in this context, i would like to mention a specific initiative that was set up 19 years ago as a result of cross-border voluntary cooperation. the programme 'youth without borders' won the first european youth charlemagne prize in 2008. the programme aims to bring together young people from the peoples of central and eastern europe living together without borders, to travel together and to strengthen tolerance and mutual acceptance. the program is run and organized by volunteers. i believe that exemplary programmes should be promoted and recognised at european level, and the european charles award for youth can play such a role. they must be supported by all means possible.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! in my party's view, it is extremely important to encourage cross-border volunteering by all possible means. it seems that there is a willingness in society to help one's fellow man on a voluntary basis. an excellent example of this was the hungarian guard, which on several occasions took part in food distribution, blood donation, flood protection. as a representative of jobbik, i am calling on the hungarian example to support the principle of voluntary service in the european parliament's resolution. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. as rapporteur for the draft opinion of the libe committee on the report, i would like to congratulate mr kalfin on his professional approach and balanced position. as is well known, cybersecurity is an important pillar of the union's internal security. as a popular opponent of the homeland security strategy, i have previously stated on several occasions that it is essential to develop a common threat assessment system and to better coordinate member states' practices for the effective protection of critical it infrastructures. cooperation between the public and private sectors, as well as between civilian and military actors within the union, is essential to ensure the cybersecurity of the eu. the newly created cyber security centre also serves this purpose. the definition of european critical infrastructures continues to be an urgent task. in order to achieve the objectives of the recently adopted internal security strategy, it is essential to allocate proportionate budgetary resources to them, and to ensure that the measures of the internal security strategy are appropriately reflected in the 2014-2020 budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. in a rapidly changing world, in a rapidly changing europe, energy needs to be provided to the eu population and businesses in the long term. in the age of uninterruptible power supply, digital economy and society, they've become even more important, if possible. it is a global challenge to ensure that energy does not lead to tension or conflict between countries in the world. at the global level, the european union is also competing with fast-growing, high-population economies. the eu is increasingly dependent on fossil-fuel-rich countries and transit countries. in addition to the eu's internal responses, market interconnection, efficiency gains and the full use of renewables, it is worthwhile to look beyond the eu's borders at our possible common policy. the following points are worth considering: although our current energy connections are mainly in the east and south, in the future all regions of the world will be connected to energy markets. so we need to develop our policy towards the five continents, the three oceans and the arctic circles. interconnected energy networks will increase the eu's competitiveness, but only if we create an institutional structure that prevents member states from being used against each other. we therefore recommend that the matter be discussed regularly at council meetings in the presence of the commissioner and the high representative. we also propose that a common database should help to conclude the best contracts and therefore invite the commission to draft the law. in the energy sector, investment and the speed of investment generation are of particular importance and should be optimised in decision-making. we propose that the european union commissioner for energy be given a larger and clearer mandate than the current one in negotiating certain issues in joint energy projects. in the energy market, we're not just talking about raw material dependence, we're talking about technology dependence. the european union is a leader in many areas. and that's true for legislation and for standardization. we need to get the neighbouring regions, and even the more distant ones, to look to our legislation, our decision-making mechanisms, as a model for themselves when they make such laws. the latter is particularly important in respect of environmental, safety and employment rules, because we see that sometimes european union companies are put at an unfair disadvantage vis-à-vis external actors if we fail to achieve a similar level of restraint. it is therefore very important that we continue to develop the rules through international organisations and ensure that they are properly implemented. we strongly support the commission's proposal, put forward by the commissioner for energy, and we would like to develop this further in our own work. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the active and effective debate, the many conversations, which we hope will ultimately lead to a greater energy input from the european union.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! a significant proportion of the european union's oil and gas supply comes from outside europe. as the union's external energy dependence is expected to increase, i support the idea that the eu regulatory framework for energy cooperation with third countries should be strengthened. in order to ensure effective advocacy, we need to take a united position in our negotiations with third countries. while eu member states negotiate with the major energy suppliers one by one, our strategic partners will pursue energy sharing diplomacy. i believe that the union's ability to act as a lobbyist could be developed in the future by concentrating on three areas: first, the differences between national energy markets should be reduced. this will be possible through the development of missing infrastructures and regulatory harmonisation. the single energy market is a guarantee that member states' interests are properly addressed and that a common position is reached in the field of energy. i would like to draw attention to the need for continuous coordination after the single market has been achieved. the establishment of effective coordination mechanisms could ensure continuous coordination between member states, thereby promoting the promotion of common interests in international negotiations. the third element is diversification. international negotiations should aim to ensure that the energy supply of the union and its member states is provided by several energy exporters at the same time. the diversification of suppliers and flexible contracts can help to prevent a complete power cut in the event of a major supplier's failure.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - mr president, members of the house. the european parliament's committee on social affairs and employment welcomes the initiative to coordinate the control of budgetary policies, in particular the provisions on the establishment of a common budgetary framework, and the proposals for increased surveillance of member states under the excessive deficit procedure. our commission considers it essential that the union's budgetary policy is fully aligned with the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to create new jobs and boost growth. the committee on social affairs and employment also considers it important that the budgetary autonomy of the member states be maintained, while budgetary policies are coordinated and controls are coordinated. finally, we consider important the provisions which propose to introduce a maximum level of public debt in the basic laws of each member state. we welcome the fact that several member states, including hungary, have already adopted such a provision in their new constitutions.
i would like to draw the attention of commissioner olli rehn and the rapporteurs to the fact that there is a disorder in the current regulations. the story is that the fiscal gold standard linked to the regulation under discussion only allows deficits to be exceeded within the euro area, not outside it. it is true that the three per cent and half per cent differ from one area to another, but if the rules do not specify how much more can be done for the euro area members with the growth stimulus package, how much more can be done, then this option is not available for the non-euro area member states and a larger deficit can be achieved for those in the euro area. it would be important to regulate precisely how far the growth stimulus for euro area members can go beyond half a percent.
the experience of the past months in managing the crisis has clearly shown that without fiscal discipline, we cannot talk about real economic growth or real economic performance. at the same time, the view that fiscal austerity is sufficient to manage the crisis is highly misleading. the truth is that nothing holds economies in a better grip than government debt, which paralyzes growth, cutting off the opportunity to stimulate growth and investment for years. the two reports before us set out minimum requirements. these minimum requirements are the basis for further development and therefore these reports must be supported. of course there will always be arguments and proposals for moving forward, but to do that, the previous points must be closed. it is our duty and responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that this answer arrives in time.
in writing. the new legislative package adopted in 2011 to complement the sixth package on european economic governance aims to further strengthen fiscal surveillance in member states experiencing financial difficulties and to establish an effective crisis prevention mechanism. both new legislative proposals provide for provisions for the euro area member states. unfortunately, experience in recent years has shown that the difficulties of a single member state can have an impact on the economy of the union as a whole, and that a mechanism must be put in place to protect the other euro area member states from any negative spillover effects. we must not forget that the financial crisis affects not only the euro area but the union as a whole. however, we must emphasize that hungary is part of two great struggles at the same time, so we must assess the situation from our own perspective. on the one hand, we have to remedy the serious consequences of the wrong economic policies of the last eight years, and on the other hand, the euro crisis is also hurting our country. therefore, one of the most important provisions of the new fundamental law of hungary is the introduction of budgetary constraints. the purpose of this fiscal rule is to prevent our country from being indebted again. our first priority is to restore the country's economy, and this requires a continuous reduction in the national debt. the new constitution is a new beginning for hungary in this respect. thanks to the results of renewal, hungary is now able to stand on its own two feet.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am sorry to have slowed down the voting but i would like to mention an oral amendment. an additional amendment to paragraph 19 was tabled and adopted in the committee on foreign affairs, but was omitted by the secretariat in the final text. i would like to read it. after paragraph 19 as it stands at the moment, we should add the following: ‘supports the use of instruments such as the early warning mechanism in relations with energy suppliers and transit countries; is convinced that further promotion of the idea of common purchasing of energy raw materials by member states is needed in the context of growing competition for resources and existing producer monopolies’. that is the oral amendment. we have learned that there is no need for the second oral amendment, so i would like to withdraw it. finally, the remarks on the socialist voting list are actually incorrect. i wanted to make sure that the remarks are correct, of course.
in writing. − i supported the report 'recognising and encouraging crossborder volunteering in the eu'. in my opinion, the document discusses the benefits, the results and the shortcomings of european volunteering in a broad way. following the european year of voluntary activities (2011), volunteering will continue to be a key element of the european years of active ageing (2012) and of active citizenship (2013). i agree that volunteers acquire skills in their work that should be summarised in a common european competence card. this could motivate volunteers and publicly acknowledge their experience in this field. volunteering also promotes intercultural learning, as volunteers have the opportunity to learn the language and culture of the place where they work. as a representative of the hungarian people's party, i also consider it important to develop good cooperation with volunteers working in third countries, in particular serbia and ukraine, and the beneficial impact of the contribution of volunteering activities to democracy and the promotion of the rule of law.
in writing. − volunteering, as a fundamental principle of the union, develops social skills and competences and thus contributes to the development of democracy. it helps to strengthen social solidarity and provides a multifaceted experience, thus benefiting both the volunteer and the communities and society as a whole. it is clear to us that this person's voluntary, non-profit-making activity, undertaken by free choice and motivation, has positive effects at national, regional, local and european levels. volunteering thus plays a very important role in the realisation of social capital and development. this kind of participation in democratic life consolidates civic values. i therefore consider it important to emphasise the overcoming of the persistent obstacles, which this report also addresses, namely that the practice of voluntary service is not or only partially recognised in the national legal systems of some member states. we all know that due to the economic crisis, voluntary organisations do not have the resources to access funding under existing eu programmes. in order to make better use of their cross-border projects, it is important to familiarise the actors with existing european programmes, in particular those of european territorial cooperation under cohesion policy, and to develop a national strategy with an appropriate legal framework for volunteers. i would also mention that this cooperation would be of particular importance in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, as it would also allow minorities to participate in voluntary activities, thus contributing to their social integration and integration.
i consider it a serious achievement that the position of the eu's special representative for human rights can finally be established, which i hope will not remain just a position but will become a serious institution. the creation of this office is long overdue in the union, as we all think here in parliament. parliament has been pushing for this for years. i am pleased that the current draft council conclusions include two years instead of the one originally proposed, as this was also one of the most important elements of our european report: the extension of the mandate. it takes time for a new mp's work to have a serious international impact. it is also essential, when establishing the new human rights office, to define an appropriate, flexible and effective mandate and to provide the necessary means for its implementation and for the new office to be able to answer parliament's questions in the exercise of its mandate as high representative. the adoption by the council of this human rights package will be a further step in the development of the eu's human rights strategy, which i hope will promote effectiveness in this area.
madam president, i come from a country in which hundreds of thousands of people work and live in third-world circumstances, even though that country, hungary, is not in the third world: it is in the european union. these people work on the assembly lines of mainly foreign-owned companies, for about eur 250 a month. they work in warehouses and food stores, also for eur 250 a month. they can be fired overnight; they do not have any legal protection in terms of labour law. so my questions to the high representative are as follows – and i would very much appreciate it if, as an exception to her normal rules, she would give real answers to real questions. is this new eu representative for human rights going to examine cases of human rights violations within the european union? my second question is, do you regard labour rights as human rights and, if so, how are the mass violations of human rights in hungary going to be examined, and on the basis of what proceedings, by this new representative?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, our second topic today, as you said, concerns the annual report on human right and democracy in the world in 2011. this report, which, i am pleased to say, is now on the council website, is set to be adopted in two weeks’ time. i am very happy to present the outline of this report to the house – on time – this year. the annual report shows how the eu really can make a difference when and where it matters most. the report covers 2011 but, if i might, i would like to give some up-to-date figures to illustrate what i mean. since the beginning of this year, we have made 36 declarations or statements on behalf of human rights defenders or country situations of concern. of course that does not include the countless number of démarches we conduct – for obvious reasons – behind closed doors. since january, we have also conducted 14 in-depth human rights discussions with countries around the globe, with another 22 still to come this year. from jordan to vietnam, from ukraine to the united states, from argentina to pakistan, the european union sits down in the spirit of partnership to see how we can, together, improve the human rights situation. the annual report details all of this action in 2011. but it does more: in line with the wishes of parliament, the report contains a section on freedom of religion or belief, which is so essential to the development of free societies. 2011 saw worrying developments in this connection, with intolerance spilling over from discrimination into violent attacks. also, for the first time, the report contains a section on international humanitarian law, which was the subject of various eu initiatives in 2011, culminating in the seven pledges made in november to the 31st international conference of the red cross and red crescent. as in previous years, the annual report catalogues our work across the whole range of thematic issues, bilateral and multilateral. it encapsulates the tremendous challenges to human rights and democracy in 2011, and how we responded. madam president, just a few examples to show that we stay consistently active: in bahrain, we have been working since the events of february 2011 to encourage all sides to engage in national reconciliation. i personally expressed support for the independent commission of inquiry and the implementation of its recommendations when i met with his majesty the king and with the foreign minister. we have kept a close eye on the case of mr al-khawaja and i have asked my officials to meet him in prison; this took place just before he ended his hunger strike. the eu is also following the fate of mr nabeel rajab, who has just been arrested yet again. in mongolia, the eu has been following the situation since the arrest of former president enkhbayar on corruption charges, his hunger strike and subsequent release. we are determined to support the democratic process in mongolia ahead of the elections on 28 june. in pakistan, the eu intervened in the case of mr behram khan, who has been on death row since 2003. following the rejection of several appeals, he was due to be executed on 23 may, but after several eu appeals to the pakistani authorities the execution was put off. during my visit last week to pakistan, i raised the issues of the need to protect and promote the rights of women, to abolish the death penalty and to make good on the promise of legislative changes. madam president, the package concerns human rights and democracy. our election observation missions remain an essential tool to support democracy and accompany political change, as in the case of the historic elections in tunisia, the creation of a new state in south sudan, the important parliamentary elections in algeria – with the first ever eu election observation there – and peru, where the observation mission contributed to strengthening our bilateral relations, and, of course, many other places across the world. i want to thank members of this house for their participation in these missions, adding visibility and enhancing the political commitment of the european union. on a related note, i am happy to confirm that we are making good progress in preparing the draft statute for the european endowment for democracy, including on the basis of the lambsdorff report. i hope you will consider the annual report a useful resource. the recent howitt report expresses expectations that the report should evolve, and i am certainly open to exploring that idea – in cooperation with this house – to make sure that the report continues to be as relevant in the future as it is now.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group, i would like to thank the vice-president for her presence here today. in the spirit of the guiding values of the un charter, we take this report very seriously, and it is our priority to cooperate with the eeas for a comprehensive strategy. looking back at the past year, however, in spite of all our commitment, we have to face reality. regular and systematic human rights violations continue. people face repression around the world and innocent people die every day. yet, there is reason for hope. in spite of the aforementioned violations, we also witness increasing demand for human rights coming from the people, from brave individuals, inspired to action by the principle of human dignity. millions poured out into the streets to demand justice and freedom in the arab world; courageous people in china continue showing the world that they are not afraid. they want accountability, just as those tibetans who choose to sacrifice themselves in peaceful protest against china’s communist rule. human rights defenders and lawyers continue protecting those who want to practice their freedom. we are witnessing increasing non-violent resistance, reflecting self-consciousness among people – just as liu xiaobo wrote in 2006 in his essay ‘changing the regime by changing society’. his words are still of great inspiration today. our solidarity with entire communities that rise up in spite of intimidation is crucial. we cannot force change from the outside. it needs to come from the inside and we have to stay committed in order to catalyse this change now.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
next item declaration by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy - election monitoring in the democratic republic of congo
i have received six motions for resolutions1 see minutes, tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy - new strategy for afghanistan.
in writing. since november 2010, we have adopted three resolutions on tibet here in the european parliament. the fact that this matter is back on the agenda today indicates the seriousness of the situation. since 2009, 35 tibetan monks have set themselves on fire in their ultimate despair. the chinese authorities restrict the exercise of tibetan cultural and religious rights, access to education in the mother tongue, change the ethnic ratio of tibet through resettlement, and force tibetans to abandon their ancient way of life. this situation is untenable! increased attention is needed from all international bodies. it is true that tibet is an essential topic in the eu's dialogue with china, but it is not enough to talk about this issue, concrete steps must be taken. an effective and tangible solution must be found to protect the human rights of tibetans, including by applying pressure if necessary. i hope that the eu will be able to act more effectively in this area with the new eusr for human rights, who will be elected shortly. as the dalai lama himself told us at our solemn plenary session in brussels in 2008, "we want autonomy for tibet, not complete independence, and we will renounce the use of force". we must therefore give the tibetan community every assistance in its peaceful struggle for freedom and self-determination.
blue-card question. – i should like to ask mr hartong whether he has read the lisbon treaty, under which own resources are not a wish, but an obligation.
mr president, the new french president said that we need not only austerity but also growth. that is common sense. nobody wanted to have just austerity without growth. on a professional level, however, it is clear that governments have much less direct leverage on growth. austerity is a direct result of restrictive fiscal policies, but there is no such a thing as a growth policy. government action can have only a very indirect and stochastic impact on growth. in a market economy, most productive investments are undertaken by the private sector. it is only the private sector which can create sustainable jobs leading to increased output and tax revenues. the government can only facilitate this process by creating a business-friendly environment and investing in physical and human infrastructure. budgets are important tools to support private sector activity. the mff is considered as such. it can contribute to growth only if it concentrates resources on investments and initiatives to improve competitiveness and productivity. the mff should envisage more spending on research and development, education and infrastructure, and cut back significantly on current subsidies, including on agriculture. as i always emphasise, eu budgets are capital budgets and should not pretend to be similar to national budgets. they have to remain small and finance the future.
it's a trick question. - i'm not going to the police. the press is full of it, and here, in the debate, it was constantly said that greece received a lot of support from the european union. what happened to that grant? how did you manage to use it so far? where are we? does it make sense to pour more money into a country in trouble?
european citizens - and in hungary too - blame the union for the austerity measures that have been in place for years, and it is therefore extremely important that a strong cohesion policy is in place in the future, because if citizens see results in terms of job creation and investment under cohesion policy, this would strengthen confidence in the union. i consider it a big problem in the context of cohesion policy that my country could lose 1/5 of the funding, so it is very important for the "capping", the ceiling, not only to define the upper limit, but also to define the lower limit, what a member state could lose, because it is a 20-30% loss, which would be difficult for hungary to bear.
in writing. the rapid pace of recent events is not good. yesterday we were discussing the re-writing of the schengen agreement and the complete omission of the european parliament, and today we are talking about the creation of a kind of banking union, which is being referred to by aspirations and demands that have appeared in the european narrative, but whose precise practical depiction, impact and even consequences are unknown. i am glad that the council and commission's statement today is already marked by restraint, because, in the face of the heightened mood, there are doubts about the success of a european summit. however, i respectfully ask the members of the european council to reconsider their efforts so far and to commit to a higher level of integration only if it is accompanied by openness and preparedness across europe and, above all, if it serves the genuine interests of at least 500 million citizens, in addition to ensuring the long-term viability of the european banking system.
in writing. – as pointed out in the parliament's motion for a resolution, a better and more efficient use of the eu funds must be safeguarded, while ensuring that the eu budget is drafted in a transparent way. we also need sufficient budgetary flexibility in order to ensure that budgetary means are properly aligned with evolving circumstances and priorities. moreover, the eu budget should be a strong investment budget. we won't be able to exit this crisis and restore sustainable growth and employment without an ambitious budget that gives europe the means to achieve the targets set in the 2020 strategy. it should also guarantee fairness in distributing the resources and sustainability. therefore, it is important to ensure that cohesion policy continues to receive adequate funding. moreover, i am also worried by this new tendency within the european commission to reduce funding for citizenship programs. the decrease of funding also concerns gender-related issues, which is a very negative development in the light of the need to combat discrimination and promote equal opportunities policies. i strongly believe that fairness and sustainability of budgetary programming may only be achieved by means of introducing gender budgeting in the eu budget procedure.
in writing. the competitiveness chapter and its research and development lines are one of the most important instruments of the eu budget. the council should not burden these lines with the cost of major infrastructure investments. i would remind my colleagues that in the last period of the cfsp, the metaphor was that of 12 skinny cows beating each other. today, the european council cannot suffer the same fate. the 12 yellow stars should shine in the light of excellence and progress. we need a self-sustaining and pro-growth eu budget, in which iter (the european fusion reactor) and gmes (the european satellite observation system) should be financed outside the seven-year financial framework. however, if the council decides otherwise, it should attach financial conditions to it and not divert resources from r & d again! i believe that entrusting the council with the supervision of the payment of money is like entrusting cabbage to a goat. the decision of the council of ministers last week showed that the finance ministers can, with a single decision, taken in a narrow circle and with a narrow view, reduce the amount of research expenditure for the current year without the development ministers even knowing it. i therefore repeat: the council must not jeopardise europe's competitiveness!
in writing. for the first time, we are going to create a financial framework that is not a free agreement, but a constitutional obligation. we're limited in our options, and we can only say yes or no to the framework. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the threat of terrorism. such a red line is the question of cohesion policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products. the eu funds allocated to cohesion policy must not be reduced, and at least the level of the 2007-2013 period must be maintained. this is a difficult task, since the european commission's proposal already envisages a reduction of almost 5% of the total budget and member states would only be able to call in 2.5% of their gdp. moreover, the calculation of the 2,5% ceiling is not based on future economic growth but on the period 2008-2010 during which hungary suffered a severe economic downturn under the leadership of the socialist governments.
on 28 november 2011, i was a member of the european parliament delegation of election observers to observe the congolese legislative and presidential elections in kinshasa. i personally monitored the vote. i can tell you from my own experience that the electoral process was marred by serious problems: irregularities and fraud. voter registration was incomplete, vote counting was opaque and violence occurred in some places. our election observation mission, after our stay in congo, has made recommendations for the provincial and local elections that have not yet taken place. i believe that it is essential that the legal framework for elections be respected, especially in a country with such a large population, where the mass turnout in the november elections is proof of the need for free elections. the publication of the results was accompanied by a great outcry in the streets of brussels, where the congolese in belgium expressed their displeasure with vandalism.
in writing. − iliana ivanova has been nominated by the bulgarian government as a member of the european court of auditors. since 2009, the mep has been a member of the european parliament: vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, vice-chair of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, vice-chair of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china, member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and an alternate member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the bulgarian representative has already demonstrated his competence in the committee on budgetary control on several occasions, having been rapporteur for the following reports: the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank, the regulation on the hercule iii programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the european union, the regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy. the bulgarian mep was responsible for the opinions on innovative financial instruments, the european financial stabilisation mechanism and the european stability mechanism in the committee. iliana ivanova was a municipal representative of sofia between 2007 and 2009, a member of the committee on budget and finance and the committee on european resources and environmental protection, previously worked in the united states, before which she was responsible for coordination with international financial institutions as a staff member of the bulgarian ministry of agriculture and food between 1999 and 2002. the ep's committee on budgetary control held a hearing on 4 june with iliana ivanova, following which a large majority of committee members voted in favour of the bulgarian candidate.
in writing. − in the light of the financial crisis, the main national audit institutions, the european court of auditors and the european parliament should cooperate more closely than ever to properly assess the quality of the use of eu funds. i voted in favour of the election of iliana ivanova because she was the one who initiated a hearing in the committee on budgetary control on budgetary control issues relating to the financial instruments between the institutions (efsm, esm, efsf). i think this could be the beginning of a new direction. as the audits of the new instruments to overcome the credit crisis were carried out in part by national audit institutions - some of them through the european court of auditors - and as it is the role of the european parliament to represent the democratic inquiry of the public in the process, it seems natural that all views should be heard in a joint discussion outlining the main challenges facing europe in relation to these stability mechanisms. in addition, my bulgarian colleague has won the respect of my colleagues for his diligent work, his excellent reports and his professional qualities, proving that he is fit to fill the post he has won. i congratulate mrs ivanova and wish her every success in luxembourg.
in writing. − the gsp aims to provide access to the eu market for developing countries that need it most, through the application of preferential tariffs. however, the current regulation covers practically all non-european countries except the developed oecd countries. many of these countries have economies that are more competitive than the eu's or provide subsidies to exporting companies in breach of wto rules. under the new regime, which will apply from 2014, the number of countries eligible for reduced duty rates will be reduced by less than half of the current level. this will ensure that only developing countries that are genuinely in need receive preferential treatment. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the two additional economic management packages which form part of the economic governance framework, because, in addition to further strengthening the timely monitoring of draft budgets submitted by euro area member states, and in particular by those member states experiencing financial difficulties, they also allow a preventive type of crisis prevention mechanism to function. this is to be achieved, inter alia, by requiring enhanced reporting in order to allow member states experiencing financial stability problems and excessive deficits to report on their budget deficits in a timely manner. the purpose of this mechanism is to prevent a negative financial situation from having a knock-on effect on the economy of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − as the mep responsible for the opinion on this report in the committee on employment and social affairs, i believe that the prolonged economic and financial crisis has put some member states in a very difficult situation, and that in order to overcome the imbalances in these member states, the european union intends to introduce in them a strengthened economic and budgetary surveillance which will ensure that the member state concerned is able to solve its economic and budgetary problems. however, it should not be forgotten that the introduction of new, more stringent control procedures could easily have side effects which could put the economy, society and the labour market of the member state in question in an impossible situation. the new procedures should be applied only with a broad view of the economic and social problems caused by the crisis. preventing the aggravation of existing problems, leading to the emergence of even greater budgetary problems or causing a slowdown in growth in the member state and, with it, in the union as a whole. i have followed this in my amendments to the report and in the vote in committee and in plenary. it is not possible to focus exclusively on the budgetary position of the member states, but it is necessary to take into account labour market and social impacts and to take into account all the union's objectives and all the union's founding documents, including the employment rate and poverty reduction objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. withdrawing development resources from countries in budgetary difficulties could lead to the preservation of differences between core and peripheral countries and could affect the growth prospects of the union as a whole. any unfounded suspension and sanction is contrary to the fundamental values of the european union, the idea of solidarity. in any event, member states should not be punished by withdrawals for macroeconomic imbalances, and sanctions can only be applied if the european commission has made a specific and thorough investigation to establish that the member state concerned has not fulfilled its obligations. in the absence of a thorough and careful examination of the problems, any proportionate suspension of community funds is unacceptable, since it is a blow to the beneficiaries in the member states who are the guarantors of economic recovery and employment growth.
in writing. − this report on the economic surveillance of euro area member states experiencing serious difficulties with their financial stability is in line with the common framework of economic governance, because i do believe that, after the sixth economic governance package, the second economic governance package, which further clarifies the practical issues of fiscal discipline, is timely and essential to give europe a chance to kick-start its long-awaited economic growth. the experience of the past months in managing the crisis has clearly shown that without fiscal discipline, we cannot talk about real economic growth or real economic performance. the report before us, in addition to meeting the minimum requirements, also provides for financial assistance through the european stability mechanism to member states in difficulty, and although the final vote was not held in order to allow the trialogue to begin on the first reading agreement with the council and the commission, i supported the amended text itself, as i did in the committee.
in writing. − as the mep responsible for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this report, i think it is important to say that the european commission expects member states to take steps which, if not carefully taken by individual countries, could easily lead to a decline in economic growth and employment. we are living in difficult times, but we must not forget our common objectives, such as eu 2020 and the eu's strategy for employment and job creation. the commission and the council are both prioritising jobs and growth as the key to europe's recovery from the crisis, alongside tough fiscal measures. it is the duty of parliament, and of us, to find a solution to the employment and social tensions caused by the crisis. the coordination and closer control of the fiscal policies of the euro area countries is essential for the long-term viability of the monetary union. however, as i stressed in my opinion, it is also very important that member states are able to maintain their fiscal autonomy, which is one of the most important tools of economic governance in the member states. it is essential that the objective of joining the euro area remains clear for all non-euro-using member states, but that stricter budgetary control and coordination apply only after they join the currency area. as regards the practice of budgetary monitoring, it should be noted that non-euro area countries should also be involved in the procedure. it is essential that reports are discussed in a forum where all 27 member states are present, and the economic and financial committee is well placed to play this role. it is welcome that some member states, including hungary, have already included in their basic laws the maximum level of public debt, the new hungarian constitution states: the national assembly may not adopt a law on the central budget that would result in public debt exceeding half of the total gross domestic product. other
in writing. − this report on the fiscal discipline of euro area member states facing excessive deficits is part of the common system of economic governance. indeed, i believe that, following the sixth governance package, the second governance package - which further clarifies the practical issues of budgetary discipline - is timely and essential if europe is to have a chance of getting its long-awaited economic growth off the ground. the text addresses important details, including not only additional reporting and reporting obligations for member states with serious budgetary imbalances, but also positive technical assistance affecting them, such as the commission's 'enhanced surveillance' or its timely recommendations in relation to an incorrect draft budget. i did not support the amendments relating to the individual stability bonds and the debt purchase fund because, in my view, they are not closely linked to the issue of european fiscal discipline and are, in many places, too elaborate and excessive. the report before us sets out minimum requirements and, although the final vote was not taken in order to allow the trialogue to proceed with the first reading agreement with the council and the commission, i supported the amended text itself, as i did in committee.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as the ebrd's renewed role in the southern and eastern mediterranean region, as in the case of the countries of central and eastern europe, could now be decisive. at that time, the bank's objective was to facilitate the transition to a market economy after the collapse of communism, providing an opportunity for economic development and a new start. it has a similar role today, targeting support for countries that, following the revolutionary mood and the disappearance of a system, have also committed themselves to the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and market economy. however, the report rightly points out that, given the significant differences in the economic and political situation between the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean and those of eastern and central europe, the ebrd should adopt a new approach and methodology that takes due account of the specificities of the region. in the context of its new scope and methodology, the bank should be encouraged to exercise appropriate controls to ensure that, in addition to supporting the private sector, its activities contribute to social justice, sustainable development, poverty eradication, the full protection of human rights and the implementation of international environmental legislation, in line with community policies and the millennium development goals.
in writing. − all eu member states have an interest in having a comprehensive international convention on trade in conventional arms. the att should contain general standards and norms for the external trade in conventional arms in order to harmonise the international conditions for legal arms trade while closing the channels of illegal arms trade. the main objective of the att should be to adopt these general and conventional standards, thereby promoting responsible trade behaviour and ensuring transparency.
it's a trick question. in his speech, the honourable member said that some states had been at the forefront of tackling the economic crisis and that some states had done almost nothing to do so. the problem is that the weakening of economic competitiveness, the economic downturn, has led to restrictions within countries which the population of the central and eastern european states, in particular, can no longer tolerate. i ask you, is it the people or the states that are to blame for the enormous corruption that is taking place, for example, in the european union? what is your suggestion that instead of squeezing people, instead of beating the dust on people, you should be beating the dust on governments? some kind of anti-corruption plan that will make sure that eu money gets to where it really needs to go, instead of going into private pockets? thank you in advance for your gracious response.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i think it is very important that the european union should send a message in connection with the european semester, in which it expresses its desire to reduce the economic disparities between the member states. but my fellow members of the house! facts are stubborn things. european semester here, european semester there, the figures show that the gap between richer and poorer countries has continued to widen over the past period. my regrettable observation is that the european union does not have a clear strategy or vision in this regard. our proposal is that the european semester and the cohesion funds, taken together, should create jobs if we really want to reduce the gap between the richest and poorest member states. the production in the eastern and central eastern european countries should be restarted. and please don't consolidate the banks a thousand times over. finally someone is consolidating the people of europe!
a motion for a resolution (see minutes) was received at the sitting of the full court on 14 december. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. instead of tightening restrictions and raising taxes on the wealthiest sections of society, we need a european strategy for growth and jobs, one of the pillars of which is to make the most of the opportunities offered by the single market. the removal of barriers to the functioning of the internal market would not only bring savings to public finances but also give impetus to economic growth. most measures to complete the internal market do not require major investments, only political will and a prepared enforcement apparatus. however, the economic benefits of these measures can be measured in billions of euros if they stimulate intra-eu mobility, facilitate cross-border provision of services, facilitate access to finance for smes, stimulate innovation and ultimately create jobs. the proper functioning of the single market requires that european citizens, who are legally entitled to travel, work and reside freely within the territory of the european union, are not discriminated against in the exercise of those rights. it is the responsibility of member state governments and the european institutions to ensure that citizens are aware of their rights and obligations and are able to seek redress where necessary. we need to ensure that eu citizens working in another member state enjoy the same basic social rights as those who work in their own country. the freedom to provide services and economic activities must be accompanied by guarantees of social security.'
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the future of european company law, tabled by mr klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs ( the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012.
on behalf of the ppe group. - i'm not sure. the commission recently published its draft employment package. on behalf of the european people's party, we are pleased to welcome this package and i would like to say that we support it as we support the motion for a resolution which has been discussed in the committee on employment, which is parliament's first reaction to this employment package. my colleagues will be speaking at length during the debate on certain issues. i'd like to highlight some of the elements that i think are important. first of all, i welcome the realistic approach with which the commission is launching the package plan. unfortunately, we share the view that the ominous signs that are clouding efforts, whether in youth unemployment or in the growth of unemployment in general, are particularly worrying and i find it particularly worrying that the assessment of member states' reform programmes, which has just been published, shows that the member states' current visions do not seem to be sufficient to implement the 2020 strategy. it is therefore good that the commission is willing to give a medium-term policy orientation in this respect, and i think it is good that it has identified the priorities with the green economy, the health and social services sector and the opportunities offered by information technology. i would certainly welcome the proposal to reduce taxes on work and would like to draw attention to the need to bring the directive on the portability of pensions to a halt as soon as possible, to remove the obstacles to mobility in romania and bulgaria and to welcome the growth initiative referred to in the text. thank you very much, officer, and my colleagues will continue our remarks.
the unemployment situation in europe is alarming. youth unemployment, but also the employment situation of other vulnerable groups in society, the elderly, often those aged 45-50, women with children or who want to have children, people with disabilities, people from various minorities. many of the things to be done are included in the draft, but i would like to draw attention to two specific issues: the role of social enterprises, which are important in helping to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis, in health care, in social benefits. they need a european regulatory framework, simplified access to funding opportunities, and education and training opportunities. the second is to address the shortcomings in the functioning of the internal market. the mutual recognition of training, simplified administration of social security matters, portability of pensions and non-discrimination are all necessary for the internal labour market to function effectively, with social rights guaranteed on the basis of freedom of movement and employment.
in writing. the 2010 red mud spill in hungary demonstrated that, however strict the rules on hazardous installations, accidents can occur in the event of negligent operation and lack of state control. it has also been established that compensation for damage caused by an accident is only guaranteed if the operator has full environmental insurance. i welcome the fact that mr áder has proposed that this should be made compulsory in the european union in his report. the landfill of industrial and mining waste cannot be considered a final solution. landfills should be minimised and recycling of the resulting waste should be pursued. the red mud could also be used to extract significant quantities of iron ore, chromium, copper, nickel and other precious metals. these procedures are not yet economically viable. the european union should therefore support research aimed at making the recycling of industrial and mining waste, including red mud, more efficient and economical
in writing. genital mutilation is one of the most grievous and harmful forms of gender-based violence affecting more than 140 million women globally and an unacceptably high number of 500 000 women in europe, with an estimated 180 000 girls being at risk of this destructive practice. intentionally damaging female genitals for non-medical reasons performed with primitive tools and without antiseptic precaution - is an obvious violation of fundamental rights and since it mostly affects girls younger than 15, a violation of the un convention on the rights of the child. no religious, cultural or traditional convention may justify its serious adverse consequences on girls' mental and physical integrity, including the irreparable damage of affected organs, painful sexual intercourse and childbirth, infection, shock, the transmission of hiv, tumours and complications after pregnancy and childbirth. effective sanctions need to be introduced against perpetrators, enabling law enforcement officials to mobilize all available instruments for combating this practice. taking into consideration the nature of genital mutilation, the close cooperation of national authorities and institutions with civil society, women's rights organisations, and representatives of affected communities - such as religious and community leaders - is essential for eradicating this form of violence against women.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new text of the seveso iii directive on the protection of workers from accidents involving dangerous substances, which will come into force in 2015, because the new regulation will significantly strengthen the safety of european chemical plants. the main objective of the directive is to impose high safety standards on chemical plants, which will allow the effective prevention of industrial accidents, the protection of the health of workers and the surrounding population, and the uniform european official control of safety systems, without reducing the competitiveness of the european chemical industry. european requirements include uniform provisions on measures to be taken in the event of unexpected industrial disasters.
in writing. − in order to effectively boost eu economic growth by creating the necessary political and economic conditions, the single market must be supported. this is necessary to ensure that it develops adequately and at the same time meets the changing conditions and challenges of the global economy. the internal market now comprises 27 member states and is therefore much more diverse than when it was created. it therefore needs to be transformed from a system of internal eu projects into an effective tool, thereby enabling the eu to become more competitive with the rest of the world. it will also contribute to strengthening territorial, economic and social cohesion and to achieving the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. i believe that the european commission and the member states should develop their objectives for the future single market in terms of skills and employment. in addition to giving regions greater autonomy and accountability, this will enable programmes to increase skills to better adapt to the needs of regional and local labour markets, thus helping regions to cope with the specific challenges they face. the motion for a resolution contained these objectives and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i supported the motion because i too believe that the regulation of company law facilitates the development of businesses at eu level, and this is in the interest of both shareholders and consumers. the field of application of company law is changing and consideration should be given to how the regulatory framework can best be adapted to this. i believe that the main objective now is to give priority to encouraging the mobility of european companies. we must avoid that future legislation becomes a hindrance to the functioning of the internal market. i would also like to draw attention to the need to further simplify the procedures and standards for service providers in the internal market, as this will greatly help to remove legal and administrative barriers. i believe that if we make it easier to set up a european company and make it easier for companies to operate across borders, we will also do a lot to make the european economy more competitive. company law has played a fundamental role in the construction of the single market, but it needs to be further examined to see whether the existing regulatory framework continues to meet the needs of 21st century society and the changing economic environment.
in writing. − while respecting national company forms, a company law framework in the european union should be established to adapt to current trends. the union's regulatory framework on company law and corporate governance needs to be reformed in view of the increasingly cross-border nature of the activities of european companies. the resolution also calls for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the overall objective is to enable european businesses to compete more effectively and succeed in a highly competitive global environment.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation of women in the european union. i would like to begin my explanation by pointing out that the large number of immigrants coming to europe makes it wrong to think that this harmful habit is a problem of the third world! it is estimated that at least half a million women and girls in europe are living with genital mutilation. on the other hand, female genital mutilation is an abuse which violates the fundamental rights of the victim, such as the right to personal integrity or to physical and mental health. and since it is usually done on girls under 15, it is also considered child rape. the short and long-term adverse effects of the physical and psychological injury caused by the procedure are clearly demonstrated, not to mention the fact that the intervention can be fatal due to the lack of disinfection. i believe that the member states should establish a regulatory system to help women and girls to report cases of female genital mutilation.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting and pirating of financial instruments (com (2001) 560 final) it also points to the inadequate functioning of the current system of certification of compliance with the basic health and safety requirements. i agree that member states need to strengthen their cooperation and verification processes on medical devices to avoid such cases. it would be important to know the procedures in member states against individual producers or if their products have been banned or restricted by the national authority. ideally, a single european database should be established to collect information on medical devices on the market.
in writing. − the scandal of poly implant prothèse using industrial silicone and low-quality breast implants indicates a serious malfunction of communication and data sharing among the national and eu level. during the commission’s review of the medical device directive (2007/47/ec) by the end of this year, a better system of guaranteeing the safety of medical technology needs to be developed, including reinforced eu-level market surveillance, introducing pre-market authorization for certain medical devices, developing an efficient tracking system for medical devices as well as establishing a single european database pooling information on available medical devices on the market. raising awareness is also a key element: patients and potential patients need to be informed about the potential risks of cosmetic surgery and that implants are not permanent and eventually they need to be replaced or removed. furthermore, a better regulation of advertising cosmetic surgery needs to be considered in order to ensure that patients are fully aware of the risks and there is a need for an eu-wide registration for breast implants, so that the endeavour to provide quick access to medical devices and the consequent will to increase profits would not overwrite patient safety.
i join my colleagues in the house. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular my colleague, mr kohn, on his report. he did a great job. the role of the european parliament is well illustrated by this process, as we are able to represent the interests of citizens very well alongside the interests of the different countries, and hungary is also included in this. what's this about? what do i want to highlight? in this compromise, we managed to obtain an exemption on a very important issue for hungary, namely a derogation issue. the single european train operating system need not be introduced for trains which are pre-1985s. the value of these engines is close to zero, and the cost of installing this system would be much higher than the cost of operating the vehicle itself. so, the sensible solutions can be put to good use, and this money can be put into expenses that will make it possible to buy new equipment, environmentally friendly engines in the future. i thank you for your common sense and i wish you all the best in the future.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 july 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is added to the report by mr jürgen creutzmann, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights (com ((2011) 0285 - c7-0139/2011 - 2011/0137 (cod)) (a7-0046/2012)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 july 2012.
the next item is the report by mr richard seeber, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu legislation on water (a7-0192/2012).
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, it is very good that the european union has introduced strict legislation to protect our water resources, but we must add that practically no member state will be able to meet these targets by 2015. the report itself explains that this is a global problem that needs to be addressed locally, so to speak regionally. i would like to highlight a very important region in terms of water, the carpathian basin, which has developed over the centuries an organic water management system that is perfectly suited to the challenges facing europe today. unfortunately, this management of the carpathian basin ended with the treaty of trianon, and now, within the european union, there is perhaps an opportunity to rationalise and make the management of the carpathian basin operational again, since hungary, as an important water catchment area, receives some 114 cubic kilometres of water through our rivers, but we cannot always ensure the quality of the incoming water in the best possible way, whether in slovakia, romania, ukraine or austria, and this does not depend on hungary. so i ask both the european commission and the european parliament to look with a watchful eye to hungary and help us in this endeavour.
the excellent report by mr seeber shows that the european union is much more advanced in energy efficiency than in water conservation, and i suggest to mr potočnik that if buildings have an energy certificate, we should also introduce a water management certificate, because there is a lot of waste. you'd have to think about that. enable cohesion policy funds to finance renovations to improve water efficiency. it is good that we are financing the construction of irrigation systems under the common agricultural policy. we must ensure that this is the case not only for the new member states but also for the old member states, and i propose that special support be given to encourage the recycling of water for agriculture. in israel, the rate is 75%, in europe, cyprus and spain can only recycle 25%.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the closing declaration of the recently concluded un rio+20 conference gave particular urgency to the 'blueprint process' in the union by identifying the issue of providing safe drinking water as one of the main areas of action for sustainable development in the future. there is much to be done, if we only consider the alarming un forecast that by 2025, two thirds of the world's population will be facing persistent water problems. in this light, i welcome the commission's initiative to undertake a water assessment of the european union, which will provide appropriate policy responses to current and future european water challenges in order to preserve our water resources. given the sheer size of the seeber report, i just want to make one point. it is very gratifying that the report deals with the issue of land use, since the question of arable land and freshwater cannot be dealt with separately. soil erosion in europe is very rapid, the quality of the soil is deteriorating, which also affects the quality of our surface and groundwater. as agriculture is known to be one of the largest water-using sectors, there is an urgent need to introduce integrated water management, i.e. to coordinate economic, social and environmental policies in a water-related manner. for example, if we continue to exploit arable land and do not ensure the natural replenishment of groundwater, some areas of europe could become deserts. to see how much of this is true today, take a look at spain, where some of the wetlands have already undergone irreversible ecological processes.
i want to talk about a small hungarian settlement, a hungarian settlement called ónod. we hungarians are very proud of this small town in the county of borsod-abaúj-zemplén, not only because 300 years ago there was a famous parliament here, but also because for 600 years there has been a fair in this town, the famous woolen fair. for 600 years, this fair has endured the turkish dula, the habsburg oppression, and even the decades of terror of communism, but it looks like it will no longer survive the european union, as news has surfaced that certain eu laws are not up to code. my fellow members, let us not lose sight of this community institution on the altar of globalism, where small farmers, producers, traders, small artisans can sell their wares and exchange their products. let's protect these communities. europe is richer, better off with the trade of the cloth.
there has been a great deal of confusion, commissioner dalli, about the new regulations in hungary regarding caged egg-laying hens. the general opinion among experts and the press is that it was invented by bureaucrats in brussels who may have only seen chickens in restaurants in their lifetime. the new member states were once again subject to a very disadvantageous system. while the old member states had 13 years, the new member states had only 8 years and a number of environmental investments had to be made in the poultry sector before and after accession. unfortunately, the double standard has been applied here too, and i believe that this expectation has not helped the prestige of the european union. it caused a lot of confusion, even though i consider animal welfare to be extremely important.
mr president, first of all let me thank the rapporteurs and my colleagues in the committee on internal market and consumer protection and the committee on transport and tourism for their work and their cooperation on this report. our common goal is to have the life-saving ecall system in all new cars by 2015. it is crucial that parliament supports the introduction of ecall. my wish is that the report should serve as a model for a legislative proposal by the commission in 2012. currently fewer than 1% of all passenger vehicles in the eu are equipped with an automatic emergency call system. the ecall device is estimated to cost less than eur 100 when new, and it could save as many as 2 500 lives a year. as shadow rapporteur on ecall, i strongly believe the system can be reachable all over europe only with mandatory deployment. the s&d group’s approach is that the eu-wide ecall service must be based on the 112 emergency number. we urge the commission to table legislation to make the ecall system compulsory by 2015. in addition, member states should actively cooperate on this issue. having free access to ecall should be a right for every eu citizen, as this public service would benefit all.
in writing. i would like to thank colleagues koch and sehnalova for the work they have done. the road safety and the speedier and more effective care of road accident victims, the protection of life, i think is a priority for all of us. i therefore welcome the mandatory introduction of the e-call system and ask the commission and the member states to create the legal and technical framework for this as soon as possible. i have also stressed in my amendments, and thanks to the vote in the committee, these amendments are now part of the core text that e-call services should be accessible to everyone. i therefore ask manufacturers and member states to take into account consumers with disabilities and special needs, including passengers, in the manufacturing and design process and to make their applications accessible to them.
mr president, six months ago i said here that we had high expectations of the danish presidency, not only because we had a presidency led by a woman but because of its ambitious agenda in a period where europe has multiple challenges to address. six months is a short period to meet such expectations, but recent developments such the outcome of last week’s european summit give us reason to believe that with the political will and the necessary unity much can be achieved. i am referring here to the investment package and the financial transactions tax. the danish presidency put investment, growth and competitiveness as priorities, and i believe that package should help meet those objectives. i would like to thank the danish government and especially minister wammen for their hard work. i would like to highlight the commitments that the danish presidency has made towards gender equality. progress has been made on some of them, such as increasing women’s participation in boardrooms. i regret, however, that despite the efforts of the presidency, no agreement could be found at the council level regarding the maternity leave directive. as prime minister thorning-schmidt underlined, it is our duty to take our countries through the crisis without abandoning our values and the european social model. let us not forget that.
it is a political success that after a long struggle they have taken the path towards building the union in the spirit of the founding fathers. it is a political failure that, contrary to the spirit of the founders, it is not offered to all citizens of the union. that's why the hungarian prime minister reported on the summit in parliament on monday: hungary won, the union succumbed to the hungarian economic policy. it is a disappointment that while the 80-year-old gyula horn of tomorrow has the strength to cut through the iron curtain in the shadow of two world systems, you are quietly assisting in the construction of a new iron curtain. it is disappointing that you, the leaders of the great powers that won the greatest political, economic change since the second world war, do not want to see the consequences. if the dream of a united europe is replaced by two world orders, the consequences could be tragic, unimaginable. our political responsibility to preserve and advance peace is universal and indivisible. that's what i want to bring to your attention after the summit.
in writing. the socialists welcome the decisions taken at the eu summit on the establishment of banking union, the intention to create monetary and political union and concrete measures to promote growth and job creation. the heads of state or government have finally shown their mettle and decided on a series of long overdue measures, which have been urged by the european parliament and, in particular, by the socialists since the crisis began. these include recognising that the fiscal consolidation must be accompanied by pro-growth economic policies that encourage investment. it is also welcome that a number of member states have voted in favour of taxing financial transactions at european level and indirectly encouraging investment to stimulate the economy. the closer economic, financial and political integration of the euro area member states must not lead to the fragmentation of the european union. it is in hungary's national interest to be part of the decision-making process that is putting the union on a new footing. the heads of state and government have finally committed themselves to crisis management. in addition to preserving the single currency, it is equally important to protect the union's fundamental values. closer political integration must be accompanied by an expansion of the powers of the community institutions, not only in the economic and financial spheres but also in the field of the functioning of democratic institutions, human rights and the rule of law. the european parliament, as the only directly elected institution of the union, is an integral part of this process.
in writing. we are right to be cautious in our assessment of last week's european council, as we thought that the eu's drift had stopped for once in december. reporters often overestimate the value of a meeting. it is crucial that the financial pact resulting from the current summit is complemented by the growth agreement, even if the amount is modest and the way it is used needs to be clarified. in the coming months we will have to deal with the issues, such as the introduction of eurobonds, which were not addressed at this summit. a decision on the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level should be taken. this would both create key resources for the eu budget and ensure the normal functioning of financial markets. either we will be able to create a completely new european union, or europe will be permanently marginalized in global competition. in the course of reforms, we must create political union, new democratic institutional decision-making frameworks, outside the economic and political union. it is very important that all 27 member states are involved in the reforms, and that none of them is made worse off by the growth pact. we should set up a special committee of the european parliament to consider questions relating to the future of the european union without delay. the european parliament should review the possibilities for strengthening the eu's democratic legitimacy and institutional decision-making framework. more europe, more community can only be achieved and consolidated by a whole new democratic legitimacy.
mr president, the votes should be in two parts and the objections also should be checked for both parts.
mr president, regarding the second amendment, the epp group has an objection.
in writing. there has been considerable debate recently about some of the provisions of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) concerning the new online piracy. many feel that these rules infringe on freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and the free flow of information. the hungarian people's party delegation believes that these citizens' and civil society concerns must be satisfactorily and reassuringly addressed, and we therefore supported the european commission's decision to ask the european court of justice to give an independent legal opinion on the compatibility of the international agreement with eu law and on the question of infringements of the right to liberty. in line with this move, the hungarian people's party group supported the european parliament delaying its decision until this opinion is delivered. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, the objections raised by numerous citizens and civil society organisations in relation to the convention should be taken into account. as there was no opportunity to clarify these, the delegation took the responsible decision to vote against the conclusion of the agreement in view of these concerns and legal uncertainty. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, it was a wrong concept to treat the fight against piracy and counterfeiting together from the outset. the delegation continues to urge action against counterfeiting. the influx of counterfeit foreign goods is putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and the counterfeiting of medicines is threatening the health of citizens.
officer, my fellow members of the house. congratulations to the reporter. you can hear from the previous speeches that he's got a tough job. the 2013 budget should contribute to solving europe's problems. perhaps there is complete agreement that unemployment is one of the most important of these problems, and that the decline in production is not independent of it. some people, by the way, see the bad state of the banks as the cancer of the problem, and they put the emphasis on the decline in lending, but in the midst of a number of failed bank consolidations and the various banking scandals that have broken out, the europeans would not accept that we try to find the breaking point at this point. however, chapters 1a and 1b of the european budget contain a number of programmes which are suitable for both job creation and production growth. the effectiveness of these programmes can be further enhanced if member states are flexible and do not stick to their pre-crisis programmes but carry out redirections. to make better use of the 2013 budget, member states should boldly prioritise programmes to support production and create jobs. the european commission should be more responsive in supporting such proposals. that would be real crisis management. if we dream of money that we haven't spent, and then we create new plans to spend it, then mountains are born, and gray mice are born, or not even born. instead of the myth of unspent money, the budgetary authority must face the fact that payment needs increase in the last year of the cycle and those programmes must be paid. in the hope of finding that solution, i propose that you give me this mandate.
officer, please! it's nice to see you again this year to talk about the competitiveness chapter. i would stress that since 2013 is the last year of this seven-year framework programme, it is very important that we spend our resources as efficiently as possible. i would like to make four points. we would like to see smes not cutting back on their investment, but rather strengthening this area, for example through eib support. we want the pilot project initiative of the project bond to be realised and successful, and then it could be available for similar infrastructure projects in the field of computer technology. we would like to stress, commissioner, that we welcome the iter project, but the financing of its additional costs must be managed in such a way that it does not hinder the successful implementation of other eu policies, in particular the 7th research framework programme. we solved that last year, and i hope this year they'll solve it. and i would like to emphasize that the set-plan still does not have the budgetary framework that is essential to make it happen. i think if we can make progress in these four areas, then the commissioner and i can smile at each other.
officer cioloş, my colleagues! following the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, the draft will allow direct agricultural payments in the new member states to remain unchanged in 2013. we finally achieved in 2012 to equalise the level of support for the new and old member states, but this does not equalise the amount of support, and mr wojciechowski is absolutely right about that. i am very pleased that the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, has understood the problem, which unfortunately is a big problem for the new member states, for those who have to switch from saps to sps from 2014, because they cannot take with them the benefits they have had under article 68 (1) (b) and (c) and the 'top up' under the national supplement. unfortunately, this was not included in the commission's draft, but the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, understood this problem. the new member states, the 12 member states that are moving from saps to sps, cannot be treated in a disadvantageous way. i ask commissioner cioloş to take action also at commission level.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, my fellow members of the house of representatives! the comments made in the last few minutes suggest that the toughest debates of the cypriot presidency will be over the long-term budget for 2014-2020. we're expecting some heated debate, as we're still a long way from an agreement. it is enough to think only of budgetary plans for cohesion policy. my fellow members of parliament! let me be perfectly clear. a substantial reduction in cohesion aid is unacceptable. it is unacceptable because cohesion policy is one of the most important pillars of european cooperation. and the principles that made it possible are more relevant today than ever. we cannot allow differences in development to undermine european cooperation. we cannot support short-term accounting considerations overriding long-term solidarity. we cannot support it because today, when the union is facing one of the most serious crises in its history, it is essential to maintain solidarity between the member states. my fellow members of parliament! the current plans for cohesion funds still contain serious imbalances and it is therefore unacceptable that support should be significantly reduced for countries such as hungary which are not expected to reach 75% of the eu's level of development by the end of the next period. however, there are other considerations which are against the withdrawal of cohesion funds. to manage the crisis, we need instruments - and i have said this many times in this house - that do not increase debt but increase jobs. cohesion policy meets both of these criteria. the protection of it would therefore be a clear success for the cypriot presidency. i therefore ask the prime minister, the commission and my colleagues to stand up for cohesion policy, to stand up for the principle of solidarity.
i have great confidence in the cypriot presidency, although its task will be extremely difficult in relation to the multiannual budget. i would like to draw your attention to a major problem, which is of particular importance for the new member states, which is the reduction of the amounts of cohesion funds for catch-up purposes. there is a particular problem that particularly affects my country: hungary is in danger of losing 20 or even 30% of its cohesion resources. it would therefore be very important for the cypriot presidency to establish a lower level of gdp in addition to the upper level. the danish presidency has made progress in building a safety net, but not enough. i therefore ask the cypriot presidency to record in a communiqué what the danish presidency has not done, namely that hungary cannot accept a reduction of cohesion funds by 20 to 30%. i need to find a fair solution for my country. thank you for your help and cooperation.
in writing. – i welcome that cyprus specifies the promotion of the european union's social agenda as a key point of its agenda and the protection of children as one of its priorities. poverty is becoming a more pressing issue in the eu and most countries, extreme poverty and deprivation are concentrated in marginalized communities, such as the roma, and children represent a large share of these populations, who are particularly vulnerable to deprivation. targeted and complex policy measures are needed to safeguard the institution of family in europe, to address the socio-demographic changes affecting family structures, to combat child poverty, and to change the employment patterns. eliminating child poverty however, is inseparable from the efforts to improve the situation of the families and we need immediate action to stop families falling behind, and rebuild our social and territorial cohesion, because it would be an unforgivable sin to loose further generations. it must be ensured that consolidation measures will not have further negative impacts on people at risk of social exclusion. marginalized communities demand a special focus, since they constitute a huge reserve of idle workforce and are disproportionately overrepresented among those living in poverty.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am glad to see vice-president šefčovič in the chamber. the message of the epp in discussing the 2013 work programme is loud and clear: what we want to leave for the next generation of europeans is not debt, but job opportunities and the chance to go forward. as has been said, europe has been living on debts for too long. it is the easiest way to spend the money and resources of future generations. i think that we should stop doing this in europe. in order to provide prosperity for future generations europe should again be based not on debt but on work and the possibility of work. in that framework, job opportunities and the chance for the next generation to enter the labour market are among the most important measures in the commission’s work programme. but i would like to stress clearly, on behalf of the epp, that this should be the number one priority. we have to fight against youth unemployment. imagine people who are starting out in life with no prospect or possibility of working. this cannot go on. in order to provide opportunities and work for young people, we have to use all the instruments the european union has at hand, namely support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and micro-enterprises. we have to put in place – and we expect this from the commission’s legislative programme – clear targets and timetables in the areas of youth mobility, language skills and youth entrepreneurship. we have to use the full potential of the european union. we know that this is mostly the job of the member states, but the european union with its legislation has to help. we often congratulate ourselves on the freedom of movement of goods, services, persons and capital, but very often we overlook the very many obstacles which still prevent the chance to have this kind of freedom, especially in the area of services. the epp also calls for the completion of the digital single market. we have to create and enhance trust between consumers and businesses. in that area there are also many new possibilities. another of our major jobs is to reduce red tape. we should set a good example to member states but also do it at european level. we have to remove the administrative burden from citizens and businesses, as has been seen in the work programme, and our proposal is for a figure of 25% by 2015. year after year we discuss the commission’s work programme. sometimes we feel – and i come back to this every year – that it is a vain enterprise and exercise because, according to studies, normally fewer than 50% of the goals which have been set in the commission work programme appear in the next year’s commission proposals. i would propose that the committee on constitutional affairs draw up an own-initiative report on how we can enhance this figure. i am not against flexibility. especially at a time of crisis we should react quickly, but a plan is only worth anything if it is fulfilled. if it is not fulfilled, or less than half fulfilled, it is not an optimal result. in that sense i think that we have to work together in order to improve this figure. i trust in the commission being a force for stability in the institutional structures of the european union. we expect that from the commission. very often the european institutions are accused of not acting until after the event. the commission has the potential and the capacity, the administrative resources and all the instruments to lead this process and, even in times of crisis, not just to point to the future but also to be a clear point of reference and stability. on behalf of the epp, my party, and on behalf of the european parliament, i think we should support this kind of activity and enhance cooperation between these two institutions. we are not jealous if relations with other institutions like the council are also better. yesterday rebecca harms criticised the commission, and seemed to be jealous about that, but we are happy if relations between the council and the commission are good as well.
in writing. − given that the relationship between hungary and russia will determine in the long term both the economic development of the region and, if these relations are further deepened, the political stability of the region, i commend russia and support the report for its commitment to remove barriers to trade and investment and to grant more favourable treatment to service providers in 11 sectors. hungary is an eastern region of the european union, and has an interest in the agreement with russia because of its geographical location. in the framework of the trade part of the new bilateral agreement to be concluded between the european union and russia to replace the 1994 partnership and cooperation agreement, which is currently the basis for negotiations, it is appropriate to update the terms of the bilateral commitments of almost 20 years ago, in particular with a view to the russian side to take on further commitments under modes 3 and 4 of the trade in services and rights of establishment chapter. this chapter should also more strongly define the rights of european service providers established on russian territory. if these conditions are met, i can only support this report.
in writing. − hungary considers the automotive industry to be a highly important strategic sector, which is why i support this report, which is a very good reflection of the importance of this issue. in recent years, several large automotive companies have also moved their production to hungary, thus creating many jobs. for my part, i acknowledge the overall positive impact of the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation, as it also supports the legal provision of bilateral trade concessions. however, i regret that the russian accession package is tolerant of certain trade-distorting measures, such as the russian package of trade-related investment measures in the automotive sector, which are broadly prohibited by the wto trims agreement. these trade-related investment measures actually impose on car manufacturers factory closure in russia (which leads to discriminatory treatment of imported car parts and components and restricts imports), but link this obligation to special investment-related privileges (reduction or elimination of import duties) on the import of car parts. the maintenance of such mechanisms is detrimental to both the eu and russia. the union is at stake, with 2.3 million jobs in the automotive industry and 10.3 million indirect jobs. moreover, easier access to this market would be highly advantageous for the union producers, including hungary, as russia is a rapidly expanding market for car sales.
in writing. − i consider the agreement in the report to be a provisional agreement and look forward to its replacement by a new, sufficiently robust agreement on trade in raw materials between the eu and the russian federation. the list contained in the list, which russia interprets as not precluding the imposition of new or additional export duties on any non-listed critical raw material, the import of which is not of a material, existing or potential interest to the eu and which may be at risk of international supply difficulties, is not appropriate. however, i would stress that the language and wording of the agreement are not precise and may give rise to misunderstandings on certain issues. if russia, despite 'all efforts to its advantage', applies new or additional export duties on any of the raw materials listed in the agreement and does not accept the solutions proposed by the eu in its negotiations with the european commission, there are few tools at the eu's disposal to enforce this agreement and protect the eu's interests. russia has recently introduced a ban on animal products from all eu member states following the outbreaks of schmallenberg and bluetongue, although this ban is in clear violation of wto rules. this ban also indicates that russia's attitude has not changed much despite wto accession. i support the report because it highlights the importance of the issue.
in writing. − some provisions of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement concerning new online piracy have been the subject of considerable debate in recent times. many feel that these rules infringe on freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and the free flow of information. the hungarian people's party delegation believes that these citizens' and civil society concerns must be satisfactorily and reassuringly addressed, and we therefore supported the european commission's decision to ask the european court of justice to give an independent legal opinion on the compatibility of the international agreement with eu law and on the question of infringements of the right to liberty. in line with this move, the hungarian people's party group supported the european parliament delaying its decision until this opinion is delivered. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, the objections raised by numerous citizens and civil society organisations in relation to the convention should be taken into account. as there was no opportunity to clarify these, the delegation took the responsible decision to vote against the conclusion of the agreement in view of these concerns and legal uncertainty. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, it was a wrong concept to treat the fight against piracy and counterfeiting together from the outset. the delegation continues to urge action against counterfeiting. the influx of counterfeit foreign goods is putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and the counterfeiting of medicines is threatening the health of citizens.
in writing. − some provisions of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement concerning new online piracy have been the subject of considerable debate in recent times. many feel that these rules infringe on freedom of speech and expression, the free flow of information. the hungarian people's party delegation believes that these citizens' and civil society concerns must be satisfactorily and reassuringly addressed, and we therefore supported the european commission's decision to ask the european court of justice to give an independent legal opinion on the compatibility of the international agreement with eu law and on the question of infringements of the right to liberty. in line with this move, the hungarian people's party group supported the european parliament delaying its decision until this opinion is delivered. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, the objections raised by numerous citizens and civil society organisations in relation to the convention should be taken into account. as there was no opportunity to clarify these, the delegation took the responsible decision to vote against the conclusion of the agreement in view of these concerns and legal uncertainty. according to the hungarian people's party delegation, it was a wrong concept to treat the fight against piracy and counterfeiting together from the outset. the delegation continues to urge action against counterfeiting. the influx of counterfeit foreign goods is putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and the counterfeiting of medicines is threatening the health of citizens.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary session adopted by a large majority the parliament's mandate for the first debate on the union's 2013 budget, which i also voted in favour of. the european commission's proposal, which would raise payment levels by 6.8% compared to 2012, is the first positive step towards realistic and responsible budget planning, according to the mandate given to the ep's negotiating delegation. the 2013 budget can only be a success if it makes a meaningful and effective contribution to solving europe's problems. the best tools for reducing unemployment and increasing output have been the cohesion programmes in the eu budget.
in writing. − as a member of the fidesz ep delegation, i also voted against the animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 in the european parliament's vote in strasbourg today. the parliament's report contains more references to the introduction of new mandatory animal welfare measures than the european commission's communication on which it is based. these are contrary to the interests of farmers, as they cause additional costs and energy consumption, thus further reducing the competitive disadvantage of european producers vis-à-vis imports, and are also detrimental to consumers, as they lead to higher food prices.
in writing. − the pp has the largest group in the european parliament and the position of our group is crucial in the votes in committee and in plenary, given its size. as vice-chair of the epp group since 2009, i have been responsible for the legislative work of the group, which includes both legislative coordination and consultation, and the development of the legislative work programme and strategy. furthermore, as 'chief whip', my duty is to ensure the integrity of the group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole group of the people's party in the course of the votes in plenary. the aim of the people's party is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. today, the debate is once again about the 'community hen egg', which is the eu's most important achievement in the eyes of european citizens, not to mention young people, nearly 90% of whom vote for the importance of free movement, according to a survey by the european youth parliament. the value of this acquis communautaire is being undermined by the practice of the old member states of increasingly regular checks on passengers arriving from the new member states, on buses. in the midst of the economic and financial crisis, when the need for community confidence is becoming more urgent, some member states are reinforcing mistrust. which shakes the foundations of the system. we saw the same loss of confidence in the council decision in early june. i therefore ask the council to do everything possible to ensure that the deadlock between parliament and the council is resolved as quickly as possible and that we can develop the governance of schengen together. it is also to welcome with confidence the two new accession countries, romania and bulgaria, to the schengen area in september.
in writing. the draft amendment requested by the court is intended, as in the case of the hungarian judicial reform, to improve the efficiency of the functioning of the bodies constituting the court of justice and, consequently, to reduce the duration of proceedings. as in our country, this is not a one-off change, but rather a way of working with flexibility to meet the challenges of the future. the amendments concern primarily the composition of the grand chamber, the creation of the office of vice-president of the court of justice, the increase in the number of judges at the general court from 27 to 39 and the possibility of making use of alternate judges at the civil service tribunal. we all recognise the urgent need for a structural solution to reduce rapidly the number of cases currently pending before the general court and to limit the time taken to deal with them. in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the judiciary, some amendments should enter into force as soon as possible, even before the partial renewal in the autumn.
mr president, mr commissioner, and my fellow members of parliament. the un conference on sustainable development was expected by many - including the members of the european parliament - to be far more than the scale of the problem to be solved. the alarming consequences of unsustainable exploitation of our planet are now well known, and the technology and knowledge to reverse the processes are available. unfortunately, political will is still lacking, and action often stalls. the implementation of the ambitious goals agreed at rio remains therefore our shared responsibility. in this respect, there is still much work to be done. speaking at the rio+20 conference, mr president of the republic áder jános, who represented hungary and was my predecessor here in the european parliament, said that sustainable development is about us and our children, about our lives and our future prospects. it is common knowledge that water is the source of life, the greatest treasure of mankind, yet it is shocking that the united nations predicts that by 2025, two-thirds of the world's population will be facing persistent water problems. that's a shocker, please. imagine, my fellow members, a situation where 10 to 100 million children will not have access to safe drinking water, and as a result, child mortality rates will continue to worsen on this earth. we can't afford to be so irresponsible. i feel that politicians and business leaders need to take immediate action in this area. shockingly, half the world's hospital beds are now occupied by people who are sick from poor drinking water, and nearly two million children under the age of five are victims of drinking water and wastewater problems every year. and we haven't talked about the people, especially in the third world, who can't even get to the hospital to get any kind of hospital care. they die without being counted in the statistics. the european union has long recognised the strategic importance of water and is at the forefront of the path towards sustainable water management. however, the union alone is not enough to solve the global water problems on its own. it is therefore in our vital interest to have effective international cooperation on water policy before the lack of it can trigger waves of migration and threaten us with wars over water. i want you to think, my fellow congressmen, of george miller's 1979 film, mad max. i don't want my kids growing up in a world like that, so i feel like it's a last-minute thing, and everybody has to act.
mr president, when assessing the outcome of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, there is not much place for optimism. it is more than clear that the austerity measures implied by the current economic crisis are being matched by a recession in human rights and ambitious environmental policies. the outcome document does recognise the importance of the green economy and stresses a number of vital issues, such as the need to improve gender equality and engage civil society. however, the overall commitments are worryingly minimal and disappointing, not least in terms of lacking a timeframe for the implementation of the objectives. in this respect, the outcome document can hardly be seen as an instrument for the achievement of a green and socially inclusive economy and for growth. moreover, it is highly regrettable that while the participating countries recognise the need to integrate reproductive health into national strategies, the language of reproductive rights was not expressed in the outcome document. in short, there is some limited added value in the 700-plus commitments voiced at the conference but they do not translate into a concrete action plan.
in writing. the rio+20 summit has been highlighted by the various manifestations of the situation worldwide, including growing social discontent and global climate change. the high-level conference was expected to address the most pressing global challenges and develop concrete strategies to address challenges that have eluded us for the past two decades. however, despite the efforts of thousands of civil society organisations, there is little hope of a political implementation of the summit declaration. in my view, the so-called 'the future we want' final document merely restated previous agreements, but omitted the formulation of new objectives and a commitment to those objectives. it includes short-term plans at the national level, but it does not take into account the limits of the planet's sustainability. although the document is a political resolution on sustainability, it is dominated by the paradigm of economic growth. i myself believe that this change is necessary at all levels, applying the principle of subsidiarity. however, the role of global and international decision-making is vital to bring about the necessary change and to develop appropriate responses to the growing economic, social and environmental challenges. the ep is also calling for a reduction in the use of all types of raw materials. i believe that this is the only way to effectively reduce today's wasteful consumption and to mitigate the impacts of unsustainable resource use on both nature and human communities.
in writing. − the court of justice of the european union has requested an amendment to its statute because it considers that urgent structural reform is needed to deal with the extraordinary workload it faces and to limit the time it takes to hear cases. the court is aware that a significant number of cases currently pending before the general court require urgent resolution. similar to the recent judicial reform in hungary, the draft amendments requested by the court are intended to improve the efficiency of the court's functioning and to reduce the length of proceedings. it is not enough to stem the tide of new cases, but strong action is also needed to address the backlog of pending cases. the court considers that the necessary efficiency and consistency in the court's case-law can only be urgently ensured by an increase in the number of judges. there is a general consensus among the institutions on the need for these amendments. however, while there is agreement in principle on increasing the number of members of the general court, the method of their appointment has not yet been defined. given that the council was unable to reach a political agreement on the distribution of the 12 newly created judicial seats among the member states, the relevant part was omitted from the regulation, thus allowing the remaining points of the reform to be adopted and the organisational changes to take effect before the partial structural change in the autumn.
in writing. − the civil service tribunal has only seven judges, and its functioning is therefore seriously affected if one of its members becomes ill and is unable to perform his duties for a prolonged period. the court therefore proposes that the statute provide for the possibility of supplementing the civil service tribunal with substitute judges whose assistance could be called upon in the event of the permanent incapacity of a judge. in cases where a judge is prevented from attending the hearing of cases for more than three months for reasons of ill-health, the judge concerned is not in a state of total incapacity. in order to ensure that the european civil service tribunal is able to carry out its tasks with the greatest possible efficiency at all times, it has become necessary to amend the statute of the court of justice. the use of substitutes is a reasonable solution to a practical problem which can cause considerable disruption to the work of the civil service tribunal. the proposed amendments are purely technical in nature but can significantly contribute to the provision of procedural guarantees in the case-law of the court of justice.
in writing. − i supported the report because the proposed instrument offers an opportunity to mobilise important investment instruments for transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure projects, which are needed for growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation. the implementation of the planned projects will make the benefits of european integration tangible to citizens, thus strengthening the european idea. however, this instrument also has risks, mainly arising from the assumption of losses that may be incurred in the planned investment projects. while the european commission's legislative proposal clearly sets out the maximum amount of possible risk-taking for the eu budget, the european investment bank (eib) has a different situation: the fact that the eib and investors enter into contracts for each project and that the eib prepares a risk-sharing plan for all projects implies that the eib does not have to take on any additional risks. the eib should therefore avoid any adverse impact on the eib's creditworthiness and reputation, as well as on the design and implementation of projects traditionally supported by the eib, from the emergence of specific risks.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i want to congratulate the speaker, because he did a great job, and he successfully closed this very long process. i'm all for developing standards, but i'm all for speeding them up. however, i would like to point out that this process can in no way be at the expense of quality. i therefore believe that the main objective should be to speed up the administrative part of the process, which requires measures to be implemented jointly by the standard-setting body and the commission, while maintaining, of course, the public consensus and the public interest. i believe that the commission can do a lot to achieve this, for example by speeding up the start and finish phases of work, including the signing of mandates and contracts, the certification of performance and the facilitation of payments. i agree with the speaker that we can and should build on the existing system, and there are many opportunities for improvement within it. i agree that the problem of access to standards cannot be solved by the question of the cost of standards, and i also welcomed the fact that we had made a call to the national standards board. in other words, to reduce costs by means of special charges, for example by offering standard packages at a reduced price. i support and consider it very important to involve smes and other stakeholder organisations in the standardisation process. i just want to say, in closing, that there has never been a more significant obstacle to your participation. i see the reason for their passivity in other things, such as their very limited financial resources, and i also believe that their special expertise is sometimes lacking. i believe that we should focus on these areas and find ways of increasing their motivation. overall, the rapporteur has succeeded in developing a proposal that can also support europe's competitiveness, innovation and sustainable development. in addition to all this, and because of the great work that has been done, i recommend that the report be adopted, and i myself support it.
i'm not going to tell you what i think. the european commission has recently reacted swiftly to the anti-democratic actions of the romanian social democratic-liberal government coalition. that's commendable. he probably learned from the fact that he had previously been late for almost a year in criticizing the orbán government, which has now systematically dismantled the rule of law, media freedom, and democratic balances. it is also regrettable that the commission has previously turned a blind eye for years to the anti-democratic actions of president trajan basescu. that's double standards! however, it is welcome that the commission is now requiring multi-party consultation when appointing independent actors in romania. it would be good if you asked the same in hungary, where the orbán government appoints constitutional judges, court heads without multiparty consultation. this is another double standard. it would be good to set up a single european democracy monitoring mechanism to preserve the union's credibility.
mr president on the same day, september 1, minority hungarians in kassán, slovakia, and in sepsiszentgyörgy, romania, also organized a demonstration in defense of their community rights. bratislava wants to deprive them of their slovak citizenship and bucharest of their hungarian church school in an illegal, discriminatory way. both slovakia and romania have committed themselves to respect human and minority rights when they joined the council of europe and later the european union. yet, to this day, the nationalist governments of these post-communist countries refuse to honor their own voluntary commitments. i would ask the commission and parliament, president martin schulz and the vice-president responsible for this matter, viviane reding, to initiate the monitoring of romania and slovakia in relation to their grossly anti-hungarian policies and to remedy the existing damage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the hungarian government introduced daily physical education in the first and fourth grades of primary schools and in the fifth grade as well, starting from 2 september 2012. that may not sound like much of a success at first. i have to say that my own personal political career, over eight years, has been devoted to highlighting the importance of this area. and this was to be taken seriously because only 9% of the hungarian population exercises regularly, which is the last percentage in the european union. even more shocking, only 6 percent of children exercise regularly. this means that our children's future is at stake, for they may grow up to have serious health problems because of a lack of regular exercise. to be able to run this process and to serve as a model for the european union, we need the help of the european union, as we are missing 3-400 gyms, which we expect to build with the support of the union and our fellow representatives.
mr. chairman, madam vice chairman of the committee. as vice-president of the eu/romania joint parliamentary committee, i participated from 2004 to 2007 in the work that led to the urgent settlement of the restitution of church property being on the agenda at the time of romania's accession, and which the romanian side undertook to implement. it is sad that five years later, a property that had been legally returned to the hungarian reformed church in romania, the mikó kollégium in székely, sepsiszentgyörgy, is again being taken over by the state by a questionable court decision. and those individuals who were doing their jobs under the law at the time are now facing prison sentences. it is outrageous that a member state of the eu should withdraw the right it has already granted to an institutionalized minority, and the next problem is that the fact of re-nationalization can create a precedent. so this case goes beyond a minority rights issue. it calls into question the general rule of law and the faith in the rule of law in romania. i therefore trust that the commission will finally take this matter seriously.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! i would also like to thank mrs yannakoudakis for this report, which has shed light on a very important issue. i can say that i am a practicing father myself, because we have removed the cord blood and transplanted stem cells from all four of our children. but the sad fact is that only 1% of women who give birth in europe today do so. so i think the elements you mention in your report are very important. and that we should encourage more mothers to take advantage of this opportunity. and there's another very important principle: we have to make it possible for all of our fellow citizens to have access to this. private banks today can only store these things in a costly way. the poorer people, who don't have the money to afford this opportunity, are shutting their own children, themselves, out of this opportunity. so i think this has to happen. and i think it's very important to have a uniform quality assurance system in this area to filter out any problems. there's still a lot of ground to be covered in medicine, and we're only able to tap into a fraction of what stem cells can do, what stem cell procedures can do, and so i think that's something that needs to be supported, and i'm all for it.
blue-card question. – mr obermayr, may i ask whether you think women would qualify as politicians? could you accept more female politicians taking into consideration our wonderful abilities for mediation and care and all the other values that we need so much in politics?
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i'd like to thank mrs. linda mcavan for the quick, precise and accurate work she did on this case. and i think this is a very important case, which shows that the commission and parliament are able to work together in this case. i hope that this cooperation will lead to an agreement soon, which is essential to the settlement of this case. there are some very important things that this story has brought to light. firstly, there are still gaps in the awareness of safety risks. i do not need to stress that in such cases the poorest, most uninformed are the ones who are being left behind. as my colleagues have said - and mr peter liese has referred to this - the descriptions of the side effects of medicines are long and complex. most people do not read them or understand what is written in them. that is why it is so important that we can restore patient trust by responding quickly and accurately to abuses that unfortunately can also occur in this area. let's just think back to a story from four or five years ago, when the distribution of vaccines against the h1n1 virus, for example, in hungary, caused serious domestic political tension. but this has happened not only in our country, but in many european countries. i remember the polish minister's statement urging the polish people not to take this vaccine because its side effects are uncertain and the risks to children and pregnant women cannot be taken, since there has not been enough time to investigate them. i therefore believe that the union has a responsibility and this procedure shows that it is able to react quickly. in important cases, when it comes to the health and lives of our citizens, we have the ability to put aside political debate and work together in a collective way, to achieve significant results. i think this report is an example of why we should be encouraging cooperation on this issue. i really hope this one comes out fast.
i congratulate mr turmes and would like to mention the example of hungary. that the previous socialist-liberal government helped renovate 280 thousand panel houses in four years, mostly from eu funds, from the hungarian state-self-government part, and citizens had to contribute only 25-30% to improve the energy efficiency of panel houses. and this shows, this is a concrete example, that energy efficiency is the best way to go. i agree with both commissioner oettinger and the rapporteur. it's a pity the current government didn't follow through. i ask mr oettinger and the house to allocate resources for this purpose between 2014 and 2020 to improve energy efficiency .
in writing. among the eu's 20-20-20 targets, the energy efficiency target is currently the most lagging behind. many initiatives are already moving in the right direction, but the results still dwarf the untapped potential. europe recognised its backwardness and realised that, in the midst of the economic crisis, it could not afford the luxury of neglecting energy efficiency. these investments not only reduce our energy bills, but they immediately boost our economy. however, our energy efficiency targets in the directive will remain noisy targets until the funding issues are resolved. often the problem is not with the determination but with obtaining the necessary funds for the renovation and the preparation of the self-part. i therefore consider it a great step forward that an innovative financing instrument has been included in the directive as a hungarian initiative. the proposal allows the state to sell excess allowances from non-industrial emitters and use the proceeds to achieve energy efficiency objectives. the hungarian proposal provides for the possibility of using the proceeds from the sale of allowances to replace the own contribution to energy efficiency programmes. thus, despite the economic crisis, a large number of investments can be made that achieve spectacular energy savings.
in writing. i believe that it is of the utmost importance for the future of europe that we make significant progress on energy efficiency in the period up to 2020. in times of crisis such as the present, the promotion of energy efficiency is of key interest to europe, as billions of euros could be saved on energy imports by reducing external energy dependence, not to mention increasing energy security, which has always been a priority for the sector. this agreement commits member states to renew 3% of central government buildings annually, in addition to the 20% efficiency target by 2020, and sets a minimum annual energy savings of 1,5% for the union in energy savings bills. the advantage of the agreement is that it addresses the issue of energy efficiency in several ways, so that its impact can be felt in both the public and private sectors. as a socialist representative, i consider it particularly important to stress that the implementation of the project would help to create new jobs and encourage invoicing based on real consumption, thus promoting the interests of disadvantaged groups. in the interests of hungary, i wholeheartedly support the objective of the draft directive to encourage member states to pay more attention to the operation of heating and air-conditioning systems in buildings, since in hungary 1/5 of the population still lives in panel dwellings, where this problem is particularly acute. in my view, if we can make real progress on energy efficiency in the near future, europe's recovery from the crisis can be significantly accelerated.
i voted in favour of the report, which essentially exposes the rampage that the united states is carrying out against fundamental human rights in the war on terrorism, involving many european countries. i have had experience of how this can lead to bizarre and frightening results, including in hungary: the budaházy case, which i have already mentioned here. budaházy is a well-known opposition leader in hungary. he has been the subject of criminal proceedings for more than four years for a gross violation of the fundamental procedural guarantees. he spent two and a half years in pre-trial detention, which the european court of human rights in strasbourg found to be unlawful and the hungarian state is obliged to pay compensation to budaházy. despite this, they continue to house arrest this opposition figure. and in reference to what? the threat of terrorism! of course, we must reject this by a wide margin and put an end to the hypocrisy.
in writing. − in view of the rapidly evolving technologies and innovation, it is particularly important to establish uniform standards at european level. in order to ensure the competitiveness of the european union and the placing of safe products on the market, uniform standards should be valid and applicable in all member states. i agree with the need to speed up the development of standards, but it must be a fundamental consideration that this should not in any way be at the expense of quality. the main objective should be to speed up the administrative part of the process, with measures to be implemented jointly by standard-setters and the commission. european standardisation also has great potential for supporting legislation and public policies. i appreciate that the report recognises this opportunity and stresses the need to move towards new areas of standards development such as services. as mrs comi has pointed out, the new european model must promote european innovation and sustainable development, which i fully agree with. standardization, complemented by the principle of mutual recognition, as we have seen, plays a central role in the proper functioning of the internal market. it also contributes to the protection of the health and safety of european consumers and to the protection of the environment. it is therefore important that we support this report, which i did by voting in favour of it.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of the report, as this proposal is a good example of how much criticised eu legislation can respond quickly to the challenges of practical life, especially when it comes to protecting public health. in response to the case, the european commission immediately identified remaining weaknesses in pharmacovigilance and proposed the necessary amendments, which were agreed by the council and parliament and could therefore enter into force as early as 2013.
in writing. − while emissions from land-based sources, such as industrial emissions and those from road transport, have been successfully reduced, the increasing pollution from maritime transport cannot be left out of eu regulation. as the reduction of sulphur in marine fuels is clearly a matter of public health concern throughout europe, i consider it very important, as a representative of a landlocked country, that stricter limits be set by the directive. however, i also voted in favour of the report because it creates a level playing field by applying uniform air quality standards in the union for both land and sea pollution.
in writing. − the current state of harmonisation of european legislation shows that there are significant differences between national administrative procedures and national data protection laws. in my view, the internal market information system (imi) should therefore be designed in such a way that when users of all 27 member states exchange personal data through it, they comply with their national legislation, including national data protection legislation. however, data subjects should also be assured that their data will be protected consistently, regardless of whether the data are transmitted to other member states through imi. ensuring consistency while respecting diversity is a key challenge for the deployment of the technical and legal infrastructure of imi. however, unnecessary complexity and fragmentation should be avoided. overall, i welcome the procedure laid down by mr bielan as it clearly defines the scope of imi and ensures transparency, while allowing flexibility in cases where imi is used for further exchanges of information in the future. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today by a large majority on this report, which clearly regulates the common system of taxation of interest and royalty payments, minimising the possibility of tax evasion, tax fraud and double non-taxation. the adoption of the document, which i voted in favour of, will allow member states to make substantial revenue, which has been lost, by reducing the potential for certain tax evasion activities. the parliament's report adopted today on the revision of the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments aims to regulate the system of interest and royalty payments applicable to associated enterprises in different member states, while at the same time increasing clarity and accountability.
in writing. − the parliament's report on the revision of the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments, adopted today, aims to regulate the system of interest and royalty payments applicable to associated enterprises in different member states, while increasing clarity and accountability. it is important to note, however, that the decisions of the member states on the taxation issue remain decisive and the principle of subsidiarity remains valid. however, for complex issues, even those involving several member states, such as interest and royalty payments, a european framework is needed to ensure that tax payments are made in a transparent manner and within a regulated framework, on the basis of uniform criteria and commonly agreed criteria. the report therefore addresses important issues and aims to further reduce the potential for tax avoidance, double non-taxation and tax evasion, which is why it should be supported.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted a motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2013 at today's plenary session. the text of the motion fully reflects the objectives of the pp group, and thus focuses on programmes to stimulate growth and create jobs. these objectives are in line with the measures taken by the hungarian government over the last two years. the re-launch of europe's economy will depend to a large extent on the future direction of the european commission's activities, which the european parliament can influence by defining the european commission's annual legislative programme. the resolution calls on the commission to take decisive action to recover from the crisis as soon as possible, identifying in a separate annex the sectors where progress is urgently needed. the resolution stresses that the commission should pay even more attention to legislative initiatives to promote job creation in the coming year. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i support the adoption of the resolution on the preparation of the european commission's work programme for 2013. the commission is called upon to take the measures set out in the proposal to recover from the crisis as quickly as possible, by specifying in a separate annex the sectors where progress is urgently needed. we do not insist that the legislative initiatives to promote job creation should be at the top of the commission's legislative programme for next year. we have a responsibility to future generations. let us not leave a legacy of debt to future generations, but let us create a europe of work for them. we therefore call on the commission to give priority to the fight against youth unemployment and to help by all means to kick-start economic growth. these objectives are in line with the measures taken by the hungarian government over the last two years.
in writing. − the report looks at current trends in voluntary and unpaid tissue and cell donation in the member states and makes recommendations to improve the quality of life of people across europe and to increase the flow of donations between member states. it states as a principle that donations should be voluntary and be made on a non-profit basis in a transparent environment. the report gives priority to the donation of cord blood for the extraction of stem cells, as there is growing evidence that these stem cells can be used to treat diseases, including childhood diseases. it notes, however, that despite this, only 1% of births in the eu are stored with stem cells derived from umbilical cord blood. the report therefore encourages mothers to donate cord blood and tissues at birth to public or private banks; urges information campaigns; expects the establishment of at least one public cord blood bank per member state; encourages close cooperation between private and public cell banks to increase the availability and exchange of cord blood and tissues at both national and eu level; and stresses the need to define and enforce eu-level standards for both private and public cell banks. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in the european union, there are 14.6 million jobs directly or indirectly linked to the protection of biodiversity and the restoration of natural resources and forests. women can be among the top winners of a greener and more socially inclusive economy. they will have easier access to job opportunities (e.g. in renewable energy) and higher incomes, and will be able to legally work. in industrialized countries, only 8 to 12 percent of the workforce is employed in the 10 to 15 industries that account for 70 to 80 percent of carbon emissions. only a fraction of these people are likely to lose their jobs if they embrace policies to green existing businesses and promote employment. i consider the objectives set out in the report to be extremely important and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − eco-industry and environment-related industries – a significant and quickly growing portion of the eu economy currently representing 2.1% of eu gdp – offer an important and continuously expanding opportunity to enhance labour market participation, both in high-skill and low-skill sectors. eco-industries and related services – including air pollution control, waste water management, solid waste management, soil remediation, renewable energies, and recycling – sustain 3.5 million full-time jobs at present and around 75%. unfortunately there is a disturbing lack of reliable, comprehensive and comparable data on how the green economy influences the labour market, especially from the aspect of its impact on equal opportunities and equality. the european commission and national statistical authorities must therefore develop a proper disaggregated database and set of indicators to measure the actual and potential impact of the green economy on territorial and social cohesion. furthermore, a set of strategic recommendations and policy instruments needs also to be defined in order to effectively respond to the possible changes in the level and/or structure of employment.
in writing. − more than four-fifths of women in the eu labour market find work in the service sector, and quite surprisingly – mostly due to widespread stereotypes concerning what is considered to be a feminine job, or an occupation suitable for women – more than half of them find an occupation within less than 8% of all available professions. similarly to the whole of the labour market, most of them face a gender pay gap, difficulties in reconciling work with family life, and the glass ceiling blocking their advancement. unfortunately, precarious work is a persistent feature of the european union's labour market and women represent a great proportion of undeclared workers who are mainly engaged in domestic work and care. the european commission and the member states need to develop comprehensive and effective strategies in order to combat precarious employment as well as to support the development of the formal domestic and care services sector.
in writing. − the achievement of the knowledge economy objectives is jeopardised if the restrictions imposed in response to the economic crisis have a significant impact on education and training systems. the quality of funding is compromised by the fragmentation of funding at both member state and union level. if we invest more in quality early childhood education, it will reduce costs in the further stages of education. i voted for the report because i recognize the priority of education policy. i support the european harmonisation of the dual vocational training system, and i believe that practical training should be given a greater role in higher education. the report draws attention to the need to encourage learners and teachers in vocational education and training systems to make more effective use of the opportunities offered by mobility. a stable european economy requires quality work and european professionals with complex knowledge. this requires the removal of obstacles to mobility, which are still a problem in the european education and training area.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's intention to strengthen cooperation in education and training in the 'education and training 2020' strategy work cycle (2012-2012) in order to successfully implement the europe 2020 strategy. i welcome the strengthening of the fight against early school leaving, the implementation of lifelong learning, and the efforts to improve transnational mobility and the european skills base. it is important to mention, however, that there are areas which, in my opinion, do not receive enough attention, but their importance is not in dispute. these include language learning/language proficiency, which is one of the biggest potential obstacles to being able to work anywhere in the european union. language skills are useful in general, but multilingualism is a vital part of how we operate in the european union. ensuring universal access to quality early childhood education is also vital for the future of europe and can contribute to the achievement of the two priority objectives of the europe 2020 strategy: to contribute to reducing the school drop-out rate below 10% and to help at least 20 million people to move out of poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − as the recent report of eu education ministers and the commission points out, more efforts are necessary for reaching the eu2020 headline target for tackling early school leaving (esl). the absence of early childhood education has been identified by several studies as one of the main reasons behind esl and, despite the recommendation of the european commission network on childcare to invest at least 1% of gdps on early education, the vast majority of eu member states still lag behind this level and the most vulnerable are most likely to be left out, or to enrol late and, even if they attend pre-school, the necessary services appropriate for their age and development are not secured. in the most disadvantaged micro-regions there is no pre-school service available, despite the usually high number of children and the fact that early childhood development plays an essential role in developing the necessary cognitive, emotional, social, and physical attributes (the absence of which increases the risk of esl and low educational performance), or option of redirecting disadvantaged children into special schools. poor performing pupils are also much more likely to fall victim to high risk behaviours, such as drug, criminality, or early parenthood.
in writing. − the report by mr cavada is an important milestone in the development of the european audiovisual sector. the internet is now the number one source of information for young people, reaching out to those who are interested as a new channel. the potential of digital recording also holds inestimable value for culture. i supported the report because it comprehensively addresses the problems of the legal framework for the audiovisual sector, the need for the legal offering of works, the opportunities for online use in their distribution and the dangers of piracy. he's a supporter of cultural diversity, which i've often stressed. i think that one of the important points of the report is that it emphasises the need to promote media literacy, as the media have a great social responsibility. on the other hand, i support the idea that public archives should take advantage of the tools of digitisation, thereby also ensuring the widest possible access to these cultural treasures.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has managed to put together this report on a wide and varied range of possible topics in a really structured and transparent way. i believe that the text thus adopted is another important milestone in the close cooperation between the european parliament and the european external action service on the foreign and security policy of the european union. i am pleased that my amendments have led to the report reinforcing the human rights dimension and the protection of minority rights. in addition, a separate paragraph was inserted to draw attention to the serious human rights violations in north korean labor camps and political prison camps. the text of the report thus calls on the relevant eu bodies to pay greater attention to this region and to provide adequate support and assistance to those who suffer. as i have already said in several speeches, i would like to stress once again that the human rights dimension is unavoidable and must be a determining factor in the union's foreign policy, serving as a rope-neck for the foreign service, the commission and the council. i believe that parliament is at the forefront of putting this principle into practice and this report contributes to that objective.
in writing. i welcome this extremely thorough and comprehensive report. i would like to make two minor additional remarks on the sections dealing with security policy. the objective of promoting the fight against terrorism and organised crime by all means at its disposal should be given greater weight in the strategic and budgetary priorities. an important condition for this action is close and continuous cooperation between the external and internal security agencies, which leaves a legacy on the external security side. my second comment concerns the relationship with russia. the report rightly states that a condition for a good partnership with russia is respect for human rights in russia. however, i did not include in the report the demand that the russian state should not only help verbally but also in practice in the fight against russian and russian-speaking organized crime. i can give you an example of russian cybercrime, which is now operating as an international mafia. many analysts believe that russian and russian-speaking cybercriminals are in some cases receiving covert support from russian state bodies. i believe that one of the essential conditions for a partnership with russia is that we should see more sincere and effective cooperation from russia in law enforcement.
mr president, the very first sentence of this document on the rights of victims of crime in the european union says that the ‘mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil and criminal matters’ is a cornerstone in the european union. no hungarian person would ever believe this to be true. why? because an irish citizen by the name of ciarán tobin killed two small hungarian children in hungary in an act of extremely reckless driving. he received three years’ imprisonment. he is now in home country of ireland, which refuses both to extradite him to hungary and to enforce the judgment, the sentence. most hungarian people are shocked and outraged by this. we asked the european union, namely commissioner reding, for help. she did not help, so now i am asking for your help. please do whatever you can to achieve justice for these two children.
mr. president, i'm sure you are. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. i commend commissioner reding for her important work, my colleague, mr parvanova, and my colleague, ms jiménez-becerril, for her commitment in particular. in particular, the report's strengths include its emphasis on child victims and the specific situation of victims in general. i am particularly pleased that the hungarian presidency has taken a serious role in all this, by adopting the budapest roadmap for the protection of victims. the success of this directive depends on its early transposition at member state level. if the necessary financial support is provided, if the right professionals are available, and if a sensitive attitude towards the situation of victims is finally developed. this directive can help to strengthen citizens' confidence in national justice systems and their european enforcement. (the opponent agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
it's a two-card draw. i have two questions. one is, does this pride in this particular budapest roadmap, road map for crime victims, mean that we can finally expect a decisive action from the hungarian government against mass crime, especially in eastern hungary? my second question is whether the special respect of my hungarian colleague for the child victims means that the civil government will finally take a hard and serious step to extradite the irish hit man or to impose a punishment on him. and we not only praise the officer, we criticize her if necessary.
that's a two-card answer. mr. deputy, these are questions the hungarian government should be asking at home. but i know that despite everything that is happening, i think the hungarian government and the police are doing everything to ensure that there is peace and security for citizens throughout hungary. on the other hand, i understand that the attorney general was in talks with the commissioner earlier this summer about this tobin case, to finally make some progress - everyone thinks it's an unfortunate case.
i am pleased that a community directive on the fundamental rights of victims at eu level, which is still to be adopted, specifically provides for the protection of victims of hate crime and prejudice-based crime. i also consider it of paramount importance that the draft law encourages the support of vulnerable social groups that are particularly at risk from crime. the poor, the minorities, the homeless are frequent targets of violence. crimes against women and children, and domestic violence, are also commonplace, and contrary to some opinions, they are not caused by low birth rates but by the spread of aggression. many people do not report the matter to the police because of ignorance or fear. it's imperative that victims know their rights. there is a need for information and awareness-raising campaigns, for which community resources are also available. in several member states, eu support is provided for programmes that provide legal information and even assistance to victims of crime. these must be continued and, if possible, extended. it is important that law enforcement agencies and judicial staff are aware of the tasks and responsibilities that come with protecting victims. the upcoming directive also draws attention to this need. the draft law contains minimum requirements for victim protection, and i hope that individual member states will in practice provide more extensive rights and protection for victims of crime.'
in writing. – i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of this very important report reinforcing the need to adopt a comprehensive european legal framework offering all victims of crime the widest protection within the territory of the eu. this framework must follow a victim-centred approach – meaning that all categories of potential victims must be identified, targeted and protected, with special attention to children and other groups at risk – and must also cover related policies of social affairs and social inclusion, as well as effective methods for the social rehabilitation of victims, including measures related to social security systems and the labour market. specific measures are necessary in order to prevent extortion and retaliation under the full assurance of anonymity, paying special attention to the situation of victims with specific needs. awareness-raising campaigns must be organised involving civil and non-governmental organisations, women's organisations and the media, and it is also necessary to conduct detailed researches on the latest criminal trends, with special focus on the involvement of at-risk groups analysing all the factors that lead to the victimisation of such groups.
mr president, i should like to thank the president of the commission for addressing this very professional speech to us today, in this desolate time for the european union and the european project. mr barroso, i would like to use this occasion to draw your attention to the proposal for a directive on improving gender balance in corporate boardrooms that has recently been presented by vice-president reding to the college. its objective of increasing women’s representation in corporate governance to 40% by 2020 has been supported by parliament through different resolutions. i firmly believe that such a proposal would be a clear signal that the european union still considers gender equality as a priority of its agenda. this would require binding legislation as well as additional supporting measures to accompany the quota system. however, in the past weeks we have heard reports of growing attempts to block such a proposal by some member states and also the european commission. ensuring gender-balanced representation in the public as well as in the private sector is not only a matter of fairness and democracy but also of economic effectiveness. therefore i would strongly encourage you to openly reaffirm your support and, through it, the support of the commission as a whole for such a proposal. we are very eager to discuss it within the european parliament.
mr president, mr barroso said he wants radically new european politics. if so, he should start confronting the realities of real people. i would like to invite him to hungary, my country, where he could confront the realities of the third world in the middle of the european union. he could listen to farmers talking about the massive land grabbing which is going on. he could listen to labourers who work on assembly lines without any legal protection, in factories owned by foreigners, for eur 250 a month. he could listen to teachers and actors who make eur 400 a month and who migrate to the west, just as they do from the third world. or he could listen to the parents of the two little children who were killed by the extremely reckless driving of an irish citizen who was sentenced to three years imprisonment in hungary, but the irish refuse both to extradite him to hungary and to enforce his sentence. congratulations to european integration and its successes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the the speech was very meaningful, but i fear it will be as good as dead horses to the goat - as the hungarian proverb says - because it will not reach the citizens of europe. your message will not reach the european citizens until the hungarian prime minister declares to the hungarian parliament this week that the european union is the problem and not the solution, and until these meaningful speeches reach the european citizens. and it's a very big problem that we can't explain to people why it's good what the european union, the commission, the parliament are doing for the people. the reason why we have joint banking supervision is so that governments can't spend irresponsibly. it's good for the people. we need democratic oversight, and i would also like to draw mrs reding's attention to this, so that the rule of law, the basic democratic values, are not violated. neither a right-wing orbán government nor a social democratic liberal romanian ponta government should do this. a single european monitoring system for democracy is needed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the i'd like to think that everything is as you said it would be in your speech. but unlike you, i'm full of anxiety and doubt. your plans, as always, are indeed very beautiful and ostentatious, but i fear they are not realistic. you're assuming that you've been handling the crisis well for three years. unfortunately, the picture is much, much more nuanced than that. we've been through a lot. we are trying to get through an economic crisis, and austerity packages are being put in place, draft laws that are not in line with the treaty, sanctions. the future existence of the union, its economic prosperity, seems to be realized in the banking union. in reality, it is a banking union that excludes ten countries from doing any meaningful work. of course, these countries can join, but they will not gain anything from it. of course, if they stay out, they'll enjoy all the disadvantages. you spoke in your speech about a connected world, where you can't build walls. i ask the president, what is this if not a wall? what is it if it is not a wall, if we are not talking about uniform rules, and if the union is not functioning according to uniform rules? i think that this should be changed, and i agree with you that we should talk about a single union, about common rules for the benefit of the citizens of europe.
in writing. − today, the european parliament voted by a large majority on the community directive on victim protection, which sets minimum rules for member states to protect and assist victims. the legislation will enrich the community justice system with a practical tool that is also accessible to eu citizens, which will ensure that victims and their families receive the attention and support they need. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the jurisdiction of the constitutional tribunal cannot be limited from one day to the next president barroso sent a message to the romanian government in july 2012. i agree with him. however, neither president barroso nor commissioner reding reacted when the hungarian parliament amended the constitution in november 2010 and restricted the jurisdiction of the constitutional court. it had just overturned a fresh law introduced by the government a month earlier. challenging court rulings, removing basic checks and balances, calls into question the government's commitment to the rule of law', josé manuel barroso told prime minister victor ponta in july 2012. i agree with him. however, the commission did not react when the fidesz government overturned court rulings, redistributed electoral districts in its favor, appointed its own people to head the independent institutions, and in a year and a half created 365 laws, ignoring the most basic rules of social consultation and parliamentary consultation. in a statement in january this year, joseph daul, the epp group leader, said: 'mr orbán will prove his commitment to the values and principles of freedom and democracy. the same, when victor ponta visited brussels in july this year, said: we have strong doubts that the diplomatic statements made by prime minister ponta in brussels will be followed by concrete actions by his government. there is no room for double standards in europe, and we must defend democracy and the rule of law together if they are attacked in any member state, whether led by conservatives or the left. i find it unacceptable that commissioner reding, who has not previously criticised the violation of democratic rules in relation to president basescu's actions, should make political assessments in the current situation and threaten romania with postponement of schengen accession after the country has been declared by the experts and the commission to be suitable for accession in all respects. the commission is right to be factual. this requires a monitoring mechanism that, using unbiased expert opinions, provides us with the appropriate tools to investigate and sanction at community level actions by member states that undermine democracy and the rule of law. (the president cut the speaker off) (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling under article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
it's a two-card draw. does the honourable member think that she is helping the romanian government by blaming her own government, which has repeatedly demonstrated that it respects the rule of law and that all its institutions are democratically elected? you think you're helping your party?
that's a two-card answer. i think it was something else. i think it's about the credibility of the european union. we need to stand up for our european values, regardless of party affiliation, and that requires the right mechanisms, the right institutions. and i think it would also help the commissioner to regain her credibility and the european people's party to regain the credibility it has lost in many respects in this debate.
the position of a european democrat cannot be dependent on party or national affiliation. there can be no room for any double standards. as a hungarian, a european democrat and a friend of the romanian people, i am interested in romania having a genuine democracy and the rule of law. it is also the basis of the existence of the one and a half million hungarian national community living in romania. i know what it means -- from my own country -- when a government invades democracy, restricts freedom of speech, and systematically dismantles the rule of law. i agree with the substance of mrs reding's criticism, although i find some of her phrasing exaggerated and untrue. it would have been more credible if you had also criticized president basescu's anti-democratic actions. the point of this debate today is to establish a uniform set of criteria for assessing the state of democracy, the rule of law in all the member states of the union... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to begin by saying, mr president, that i agree with mrs weber completely, and we said much the same thing at the hungary debate. then we haven't found any hearing on that side. i would like to add that i'm seeing a rather interesting understanding of democracy here from the socialist and liberal members of the house. and especially from my hungarian colleagues, my socialist colleagues, who are taking every opportunity to speak out to kick their own government. they seem to forget the undeniable fact that we are discussing the unconstitutional and anti-rule of law actions of a provisional government, and not the fact that in hungary a democratically elected government, empowered by a two-thirds majority, is trying to make up for the reforms that were missed during the change of regime. and to restore the country to the state that has been destroyed by successive socialist governments for eight years. i reject this false, misleading and contradictory claim in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. the ep's decision to hold today's debate is welcome, as democracy and the rule of law have been put at risk in romania in recent months. we transylvanian hungarians also consider the eu's, the parliament's attention to be important because the current post-communist romanian government has decided to end anti-hungarianism by launching a series of attacks against our minority institutions. his series of hostile attacks began with the actions against the hungarian faculty of the university of medicine and pharmacy in marosvásárhely, in connection with which president traian basescu decently declared that "a minority has the fundamental right to study in its mother tongue, at a university that has the obligation to ensure education in the mother tongue of minorities". the line continued with the arbitrary re-nationalization attempt of the reformed mikó székely college, which was confiscated during the communist era and then returned to its rightful owner, the hungarian reformed church, through restitution. nevertheless, we can finally say with satisfaction that "in one way or another, romanian institutions have resisted political pressure and have managed to remain faithful to their mission, whether we are talking about the constitutional court, the public prosecutor's office or the anti-corruption prosecutor's office". - traian basescu. the ponta-antonescu government also waged a campaign of revenge against us because the hungarians refused to support its illegal and unconstitutional policy, namely the coup d'état of president traian basescu. finally, i would ask parliament and the commission to continue to monitor the situation in romania and the fate of the hungarian minority.
officer, please. i thank you very much for your information, i have listened very carefully and it seems to me that you want to keep banks in the non-euro area member states out of this common supervision. of course, as you mentioned, the system is open to all member states. my question is, how did it open? it does not create rights, but at the same time it immediately imposes obligations on the entrant, while not providing protection. if a country is left out, it may not get any information, it may be left out of everything. but whether the country enters or stays out, if it's outside the zone, it can't turn to the esm, so, mr. commissioner, it can only rely on its own strength. this means that financial institutions within the zone can enjoy greater protection and security. let's ask the question answer it do investors feel safer with money in banks inside the zone than with money in banks outside the zone? the answer is yes. i guess... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, my dear officer. my fellow members of the house of representatives! most eu member states secure their long-term energy supply through intergovernmental agreements with third countries. but when it comes to energy supply negotiations, the eu of 500 million people is not the world's largest gas market. most member states are heavyweight energy exporters. there is no coordinated negotiating strategy, no information that is essential for successful negotiations. in the absence of eu information exchange, it is no wonder that our negotiating partners are using their superiority and some member states are suffering a crushing defeat. ladies and gentlemen, sharing energy supply information at community level is a prerequisite for becoming a heavyweight. knowledge of intergovernmental agreements can help to develop a coordinated negotiating strategy to provide member states with better access to energy. our energy security and the lower price are guaranteed by closer cooperation and joint action between member states. i therefore consider it important that the commission should be able to take an active part in international negotiations at the request of governments. congratulations to the speaker on his work, thank you for listening.
i congratulate the rapporteur, because the eu's single labelling increases the competitiveness of our producers. i would like to draw the attention of commissioner dacian cioloş to the fact that a completely different labelling system has been introduced in hungary, which has no euro-conform significance. it is not at all related to the work of the rapporteur, the commission and the result of this joint decision here in europe. after all, it is not in hungary that you have to be world-famous, but in europe you have to comply with both the protection of the protection of geographical origin. i therefore ask the commissioner to draw the attention of the hungarian government to the fact that the interests of hungarian producers will only be served if the hungarian labelling system is in line with the system now adopted by the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i want to make it clear right away: we need more venture capital in europe. after all, private equity investors are actively looking for opportunities in, say, my country, hungary. but i have to say that the owners, the directors, are often very wary of this form of financing. in order to support the most promising start-ups, they should make venture capital funds larger and more diversified in terms of their investments. i believe that the two proposals and the two funds which have been put forward today are intended to help develop this emerging market. i believe this because, on the one hand, in the current crisis - when lending to the real economy is in decline - it can be extremely difficult for businesses to get access to credit. on the other hand, i agree with the commission that enterprises with long-term investments and risk capital are more successful than those that have to rely on short-term bank financing. third, larger venture capital funds not only mean a larger volume of capital available to individual companies, but can also provide the possibility of specialisation into separate sectors. i am convinced that venture capital can help small and medium-sized enterprises to become more competitive. i am confident that the agreement will be passed at first reading and i will of course vote in favour of it.
in my view, a collective sense of belonging to europe is one of the foundations of the union's stability. one of the symbolic expressions of this sense of belonging is europe's cultural heritage, which includes the artistic works of all the member states. works whose copyright holders cannot be identified are also included in this category, i.e. orphan works. ensuring that such works are made available to the public throughout europe and harmonising the different legal practices in the member states is essential to safeguard europe's cultural heritage. i think it's unacceptable for a work to be lost because there is no person or rights management organization that would authorize its use as a copyright holder. that is why i support the proposal that works whose copyright owners cannot be identified despite a long and careful search can be digitised and thus made available online throughout europe.
in writing. the great advantage of this agreement is that it provides legal certainty to public institutions, which will then be more empowered to take up these works. i welcome the fact that this proposal also includes the possibility for rightholders to request that their works not be regarded as works, while at the same time ensuring that public institutions are also adequately protected. i think the reason they don't use these works is because they're afraid that they're going to have to pay a million-dollar fine without the copyright owner's consent. it is not uncommon for an institution to have 70% of its collection made up of such works. i would also like to point out that i personally did not consider the legal policy approach of the european commission to be constructive, but rather a partly negative reaction to the book digitisation project launched by google. in this way, the model envisaged by the directive would certainly be able to compete effectively with the us company in the short and medium term, but in the long term it would again be pushed into the background by the failure to develop a regulatory environment that would allow creative uses in the digital environment. i believe that the rapporteur recognises this possibility too: he has steered the original proposal in the right direction, stressing that we need to move into new areas in the legislative field as well. as mrs geringer de oedenberg points out, the new european model should help to develop a simplified procedure. i couldn't agree more.
mr president, first of all let me thank the rapporteurs. well done! as pointed out in this report, the modified legislative environment introduced by the treaty of lisbon needs to be better reflected in european legislation, as provided for in the smart regulation agenda. better lawmaking means simplified, smarter and more transparent legislation, taking into account europe’s multilayered governance. in that regard, i believe the closer involvement of national and regional parliaments in our legislative process needs to be reinforced, especially in the light of the principle of subsidiarity. we have at our disposal very useful tools in relation to national contributions to eu law, such as the ipex platform. however, the follow-up and the ex-post control could and should be enhanced: firstly through an improved statement from the commission of the ground for its initiative (subsidiarity or proportionality), and secondly through an extended timeframe for national parliaments to carry out subsidiarity checks. finally, i would like to underline the urgent need for an update of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking, and i look forward to discussing the upcoming commission progress report on the smart regulation agenda.
in writing. the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making adopted in 2003 should be adapted as soon as possible to the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards the tables of conformity and the demarcation line between delegated and implementing acts. we cannot allow the council to blur the clear distinction between delegated and implementing acts and we urge the commission to ensure the proper application of these two articles. the agreement between the three institutions is aimed primarily at enhancing the coordination of the legislative process, while respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i would like to point out that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the union acts in areas outside its exclusive competence only when and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action are better achieved at union level than at national, regional or local level. it is therefore essential that the community institutions enable national parliaments to scrutinise legislative proposals by ensuring that the commission provides comprehensive and detailed reasons for its decisions on subsidiarity and proportionality.
mr president, i just happen to be sitting here because i am interested in my colleague’s explanation of vote. i was going to ask my colleague a question, but i understand that that is not possible; i apologise.
in writing. − the aim of this agreement is to guarantee the equivalence of the treatment of classified data by all eu institutions. transparency and access to information are essential prerequisites for the democratic legitimacy of the eu, namely the european parliament. the framework agreement between parliament and the commission contains detailed provisions on the transmission of confidential information to parliament. however, in order to make effective use of the prerogatives and powers of the european parliament, which have been considerably extended by the treaty of lisbon, parliament also needs access to classified council data. i am voting in favour of the adoption of the agreement because it lays down the rules governing the transmission to the european parliament and the handling of classified information by the council relating to matters other than the common foreign and security policy which are relevant to the exercise of the european parliament's powers and duties.
in writing. − the pillars of the atlantic strategy: spatial planning policy and industrial policy will lead to the development of a macro-regional strategy, which will involve local authorities, public and private actors, eu organisations, transnational and international actors, to develop a complex, integrated and effective strategy, the implementation of which will lead to a comprehensive innovation of the atlantic region (including the channel and the coastal regions of the irish sea) from 2014 onwards, with particular regard to the development of smes, the employment of young people and the boost to transatlantic transport. the atlantic is a dynamic maritime area, the western gateway to the european union, and therefore of strategic importance for transatlantic traffic. it is also a peripheral region of the union, which, if removed, could link the atlantic regions to europe, transport, energy and information networks, regional development and the strengthening of land-sea links.
in writing. − the european parliament today took an important step towards strengthening the position of eu member states vis-à-vis large energy exporters and reducing their vulnerability. the document adopted today in plenary calls for member states to share more information on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy supply in the future. the exchange of information facilitates the coordination of action by eu governments vis-à-vis the major energy exporters, thereby allowing member states to access energy on better terms. most eu member states ensure their long-term energy supply through intergovernmental agreements with third countries. but when it comes to energy supply negotiations, the european union of 500 million people is not the world's largest energy market. the security of energy supply and the lower price of energy in the union are guaranteed by closer cooperation and joint action between member states. knowledge of existing intergovernmental agreements and coordination of negotiation strategies will strengthen the position of member states vis-à-vis the major energy exporters, allowing them to obtain energy at better prices. strengthening the negotiating position of the member states is also an issue for hungary, as our long-term gas contract expires in 2015. it is crucial for the security of our energy supply and the competitiveness of our industry that we succeed in extending the gas contract on favorable terms. today's decision strengthens our country's negotiating position.
in writing. − a more efficient exchange of information between member states is important for eu countries to negotiate more successfully with major energy exporters. knowledge of existing intergovernmental agreements helps to coordinate the actions of eu governments, so that member states can access energy on better terms. the agreement at first reading voted on today is an important step towards harmonising negotiating strategies and strengthening member states' positions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the future of the eu's external relations. the early strengthening of the member states' negotiating position is crucial for the union's energy supply and competitiveness, and i therefore voted in favour of approving the agreement between the ep and the council and setting up the legislative framework immediately.
in writing. − social enterprises have become increasingly important in economic and cohesion policies in recent years. different organisations have made and promised many different initiatives. i believe that these businesses can play a key role as drivers of social innovation. the experience of social cooperatives in bringing people into employment is a clear example of this, but beyond the legal form, social innovation also comes from new forms of service provision, the creation of new innovative products and services that meet new social needs. the european institutions must therefore act consistently and coordinate actions on social enterprises, innovation and social change. i believe that social enterprises should be supported, firstly because they can introduce new methods of delivering services and measures that improve people's quality of life, and secondly because they help to create new products that meet new social needs. it is also important to promote a more 'subsidiarity-friendly' attitude of public institutions, to introduce policies with targeted incentives and to implement the initiatives of business associations, which have proved to be essential for the growth of social enterprises. i therefore voted in favour of this report, as overall the proposals contained in it could improve access to finance and the regulatory framework.
in writing. − the adoption of the report will make it easier for venture capital funds to raise funds for start-ups across europe. the approach is simple: if they meet the requirements, each of the qualifying fund managers can raise funds under the european venture capital fund designation throughout the eu. they will no longer have to meet complex requirements that differ from one member state to another. the uniform rules will potentially allow venture capital funds to raise more capital and to grow. larger venture capital funds mean a larger volume of capital available to individual companies and allow the funds to specialise in stand-alone sectors such as information technology, biotechnology or healthcare. this will ultimately help smes to improve their competitiveness on the world market.
in writing. − a prior authorisation is required for copyrighted works to be made publicly available in online digital libraries. consequently, the use of so-called orphan works, i.e. where the identity or whereabouts of the copyright holder is unknown, is almost impossible, since the necessary authorisation for publication cannot be obtained in the absence of the copyright holder. at present, the member states of the european union can only digitise works whose copyright holders cannot be identified within their own territory. i am voting in favour of the report, so that we can finally establish a basis for the treatment of books, newspapers, magazines, films, music, television works which are protected by copyright but whose owners cannot be identified. this will allow such orphan works to be made available online throughout europe for cultural and educational purposes without prior authorisation.
in writing. − we expect accountability for the euro area's common banking supervision. that is what is said in the resolution which i myself voted for on thursday. the document calls on member states to guarantee the democratic accountability of the proposed single european banking supervision by means of 'quality rules', but states that, based on the current views of member states, it is feared that the actual rules will send a 'yearly message' and perpetuate the inefficiency. i hope for a system that stabilises the euro area, because that is in our interest, but without making the situation worse for banks outside the euro area. unfortunately, some measures that strengthen the stability of the euro area (such as the divestment of eastern subsidiaries to allow more credit to be made at home) may have a sensitive impact on non-euro area members. it is therefore also important to stress that the resolution stresses the importance of developing a mechanism to address the spillover effects of the establishment of the euro area banking union on the eu member states that are not members of the euro area. i believe that the only good system is one which deals with this extremely difficult situation by applying uniform rules in a single european union, which creates equal rights and obligations for those inside and outside the area.
the next item is a debate on the slaughter of striking miners in south africa.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i was brought to you as a conclusion to the argument. i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is a debate on the persecution of rohingya muslims in burma.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i was brought to you as a conclusion to the argument. i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on azerbaijan, the case of ramil safarov.
author. - mr president, it must be the lady. the story of today's debate actually has three actors: azerbaijan, armenia and hungary, and it moves on two tracks: legal and political. of the three actors, hungary played a marginal role, as it only followed international legal norms. in light of this, i find the left amendments incomprehensible, because they are heating up a frozen conflict to condemn hungary. it's a well-known left-wing bulldozing technique. azerbaijan, by contrast, is clearly violating the spirit of the rules by immediately pardoning the transferred safarov. it is not surprising that armenia is attacking azerbaijan, but the anti-hungarian outbursts are a sign of a heightened emotional state. this is worrying because an overzealous armenian reaction and a dubious move by azerbaijan could put the already fragile security of the region at risk. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred under article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
blue-card answer. – assurances were given, the text is available and i, too, have said that the azerbaijanis effectively did not act in the spirit of the convention.
it's a two-card draw. two short questions. mr schöpflin has here separated the legal and the political aspects, and i am interested in the motivation. previous governments resisted this request and pressure for years precisely because we knew that we would be in a very delicate situation if we did. so we didn't. my question is, beyond the safeguards that mrs keyser asked about, precisely because there were conflicting statements at home, whether they were prepared for this. if they weren't, was it because there was no one at state anymore to handle the layoffs who knew what was going on in the region? is it because they didn't ask, or because they decided to ignore the state department's opinion?
that's a two-card answer. again, this statement is disturbing. safarov served his time and was on probation for assaulting a prison guard. therefore, it could not be published during the socialist government. as for the rest, check out the press.
it's a two-card draw. ms. lunacek, azerbaijan is a member of the council of europe, and hungary, in issuing this prisoner, has complied with the council of europe convention. according to the article, literally, which azerbaijan has committed to as a member state of the council of europe. and azerbaijan confirmed this in an official letter sent to the hungarian authorities, in which it committed that the convict in question would serve his sentence and no further proceedings would be held. it's on the paper.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! my fellow members of parliament! according to the hungarian government, these are legal acts between two sovereign countries. but if that's the case, why did the people's party take the initiative to discuss urgent humanitarian issues here in the strasbourg parliament? since the people's party took this initiative, the socialists disagreed. murder, please, is murder. the verdict is the verdict. in the case of transfers between two countries, it is a common responsibility to ensure this on the basis of mutual guarantees. that's the responsibility we're looking for. international organisations, including the european parliament, need to do a lot of work to build trust in the region and bring it back to the level it was before the incident. there is no alternative to a peaceful, negotiated process in the region. i sincerely hope that bilateral relations will return to normal as soon as possible.
mr president, punish or extradite? this is the fundamental principle of international criminal law in matters of mutual cooperation in criminal justice matters between states. in this case, hungary used a combination of these two. we enforced eight years of mr safarov’s sentence and then extradited him – at the request of azerbaijan – and allowed his transfer to azerbaijan. as a criminal lawyer i think there should have been more careful consideration in terms of making sure that azerbaijan did not use article 12 of the relevant european convention and did not grant a pardon or amnesty to safarov. as a hungarian criminal lawyer i am not proud of this particular decision, and i think there is room for improvement. having said that, the european union is not a role model for us. the european union should not instruct us in matters of international cooperation in criminal cases when there is a shameful, shocking case pending in the european union in which we are on the receiving end of a miscarriage of justice, and you had better solve that case before you instruct us. it is the tobin case. have you ever heard about this case? if not, that is really sad; you should have heard about it. an irish banker in hungary killed two hungarian children in an extreme case of reckless driving. he was sentence to three years’ imprisonment by a hungarian court. he is now in ireland, in his country of citizenship, and do you know what? ireland refuses both to extradite him to hungary and to enforce his sentence. what does the european union do? it sits back and keeps silent. why is it that when we are on the receiving end of these miscarriages of justice you never raise your voices? ms hall said earlier this afternoon that there should be no cherry picking in matters of human rights. please use this principle when hungary is on the agenda. (the president cut off he speaker)
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i was brought to you as a conclusion to the argument. i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the vote. (for the results of the votes and other details, see minutes)
you are completely right, mr kurski, your name is on the list but we have only two places left and i have given those places to people who applied earlier.
i hereby adjourn the sitting of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.35 p.m.)
mr. speaker, fellow members of the house of representatives, last week we held an sme summit in brussels, with some 600 small entrepreneurs in the city at the invitation of the commission. last week, hundreds of innovative companies attended various conferences in parliament. a week and a half before that, i had the pleasure of welcoming 250 young entrepreneurs who had taken part in the 'erasmus for all' programme to a gala dinner. 5,000 small businesses have already taken part in this programme. my fellow members of the house of representatives! officer, please! our words and actions must point in the same direction! we therefore find it unacceptable in the committee on industry that the council and the commission have proposed that we curtail the entrepreneurship and innovation programme, that we curtail the research and development programme, that we curtail the digital agenda. that's not what we promised, that's not what our constituents expect, that's not what our entrepreneurs expect. we promised to provide growth and jobs. i would therefore urge you to accept the proposal of the committee on industry and the committee on budgets to restore these lines to their original state. officer, please! for the past two years - and for the third year now - we have been fighting a hard battle to find the sources of funding for iter together. we consider this programme important, but we have always stressed and we wish to stress again that it must not come at the expense of other research and development programmes. i sincerely hope that this nightmare - which we have been pursuing for years on this issue - will come to an end and that the next seven-year budget will resolve this issue. i encourage you to think about young people, think about the future, and invest in it. thank you for listening.
on behalf of the s&d group. the aim of the year '13 is to draw attention to the rights of european citizens, the rights they have. but the year will only be a success if european citizens see that they can really exercise their rights and that the european institutions take their own principles and values seriously. can citizens really be free to enjoy the rights to work in another country with the recognition of their qualifications? does the right to non-discrimination really apply to everyone, including those who seek to thrive as roma in another member state? does the european union take the guarantee of democratic rights seriously and does it speak up when democracy is undermined in a member state and people are prevented from exercising their democratic rights? they want to know if they can exercise their social rights, if the principle of solidarity works. are the people most affected by the crisis getting help? will solidarity be reflected in the post-2014 budget? if we can make progress in those areas, i think we'll have a successful year.
mr president, the european year of citizens will be a great opportunity to raise awareness about how citizens can truly benefit from eu rights and policies. this is of crucial importance if we want to foster a genuine european debate on democratic participation. this year will also provide good momentum to take stock of the obstacles and barriers that too many european citizens – students, workers and families – are still facing. i still regret that they did not call it the european year of citizenship, as suggested by the rapporteur and myself, because the future of the european union will not be achieved without a truly european citizenship. the european union is, and has to be, more than a single market, and this starts with the european citizens. finally, i would like to underline once again the necessity to provide sufficient funding in order to make this european year of citizens a success. i would also point out the necessity for the european parliament and its members to be closely involved in all the activities and communications that take place in this framework.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following joint debate item union development policy: report by charles goerens on behalf of the committee on development on the 'programme of change: a proposal for the future of the union's development policy' (2012/2002 (ini) (a7-0234/2012) and on the oral question to the commission on the european year of development 2015 (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sget/docs.docs.type?huqo&reference=o&o-2012-reference=167000&language=t" \blank" b36_7_3/2012) by philippe boulland, european people's party (christian democrats) and thijs berman, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists (s&d) in the european parliament.
air transport is a key sector of the european union's economy. it is also because it provides jobs for more than 3 million people and contributes more than eur 140 billion to our gdp. however, these airlines are facing a difficult struggle as they are exposed to the unequal competition conditions imposed by the rapidly expanding middle eastern air carriers. european airlines have been criticizing gulf airlines for years, both because of the high level of state subsidies and because these companies do not have to pay corporate taxes. in contrast, european airlines are not eligible for state aid, are subject to corporate tax and are not eligible for european export credit guarantees. these factors together create an unequal competitive situation which i would like to call on the european commission to remedy immediately.
the main thrust and content of president barroso's opening address was set by the 'more europe' initiative. in this union, it seems unthinkable that there should be any hierarchical ranking or ranking in respect of the observance and enforcement of the principles. at the same time, it is inconceivable that the legal practice and legal systems of the member states would create or even revise legislation that is contrary to eu fundamental law. and that, ladies and gentlemen, whether you believe it or not, is what happened on september 20, 2007, with resolution 1483/2007 of the national council of the slovak republic. that decision confirmed, declared inviolable and unalterable the decrees of bénes. in view of this, however, it is particularly interesting to regard this as a document of the second world war, since it was not approved in 1945 but in 2007. therefore, the argument that historical documents are mentioned is unfounded and amateurish, since historical documents belong in the archives and history books, not in the current and valid legal system. i don't know if my colleagues in the house are aware that 13 decrees require enforcement on the basis of racial segregation, discrimination, as well as the nuremberg laws. that is why slovakia should deregulate these rules.
tomorrow is the 56th anniversary of the outbreak of the 1956 revolution. october 23 is not only a holiday for hungarians, but for all freedom-loving people. this year's celebration is double, as we are also commemorating the 120th anniversary of the birth of mindszenty józsef. to the cardinal who was imprisoned by both the fascist and communist dictatorships. the ideals that gave mindszenty strength were those of freedom, tradition, community and genuine european ideas. these were the ideals of the statesmen who were then working in the western half of europe to lift up a continent that was exhausted by war. de gasperi, schumann, monnet and adenauer believed in the same christian europe as the hungarian cardinal. these ideals and this faith kept the tortured priest going and lifted europe out of its seemingly hopeless situation. hope seems to be fading again from our continent today. sometimes it's worth looking back at our ancestors to find a way out. to those whose moral and public example has served as a pillar of a united europe.
in writing . small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) form the backbone of the european union's economy, providing more than two thirds of jobs and more than half of total eu turnover in the private sector. however, smes are the part of the economy that has been most affected by the economic crisis. many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling to survive. in my view, three areas should be highlighted which i believe have the potential to significantly improve the position of smes on the eu market. the first area is to facilitate access to financial instruments and reduce administrative burdens. they represent the greatest burden for the crisis-hit enterprises. in order to overcome obstacles, we need to move step by step and therefore legislators should be encouraged to take account of the interests of smes at the earliest stage of legislation. the second area is improving entrepreneurship. new businesses are a real alternative to unemployment and offer young people who are out of work a way out of the crisis. smes also have an important role to play in providing adequate training and education to facilitate access to work. the third area is to improve access to eu and global markets. only a quarter of european smes are active outside their home country in the single market, so supporting both export and import promotion is particularly important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i fully agree with mrs foster in her report that the european commission and the european union are taking too long to introduce the new regulation and we could lose that position in europe, that innovative situation which can solve a lot of income and job creation later. let's not forget that this restructuring and the new programme will have a 419 billion euro impact on the european union's gdp, create 328 000 new jobs and, in addition, reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes. so these are very important numbers. one thing that must be kept in mind during restructuring and reorganisation is that reducing the training and financing of the workforce is not the only way to achieve cost-effectiveness, as the central european region can already earn about half of the european average in this area. it could be very dangerous for their migration if we continue to decline.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr bach, who was the rapporteur for this item. i fully agree that we must try and do everything we can to make information and transparency in the field of passenger rights more transparent, but we must also try to achieve coordination of national legislation. the idea of creating a single european database is a very good one, and the information already available in the national databases, the practices that some member states use at their own level, can be generalized to the eu member states. there is one very important issue that i would like to raise, and that is the issue of tourism. in addition to providing transport as a public service of increasingly high quality, and to maintaining the leading role of tourism in europe in the world, it is also particularly important to ensure that passenger rights are enforced at the highest level possible and that these services are as transparent as possible.
in writing. i also congratulate my colleague bach, who has done an excellent job. i would like to thank him in particular for supporting my 19 amendments, all of which are aimed at making life easier for disabled european citizens. i spoke, among other things, of the equal treatment of disabled people in transport, the physical accessibility of transport facilities and stations, the elimination of barriers to information and communication, and the consideration of the requirements of design for all. i believe it is important to promote sign language services using video technology and the use of web-based services to ensure the involvement of deaf and hard of hearing users and speech impaired users in transport. at the same time, it is essential to establish a common protocol for the training of staff in the different transport sectors and for safety requirements. the latter is especially true of air travel regulations, where individual airlines arbitrarily judge how many deaf or wheelchair users can be carried on their airline's aircraft. this is unacceptable because it will cause a lot of financial and moral damage. i therefore believe that, although at present legislation on the rights of passengers on buses and ships has not yet entered into force, it is essential that a horizontal legislation covering all modes of transport should be introduced in the areas of compensation, reimbursement, transport of passengers with disabilities and information flows. the right to move freely and without restrictions is one of the keys to europe's future, and this is inconceivable without a single regulation on passenger rights!
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. - mr president, i have to go. officer, please. my fellow members of the house of representatives! it's time for change and unity! that's my main message to you. it is time to create the framework for growth. the structure that drives our economy. investment, single internal and external markets, and growth-enhancing regulation are needed. significant steps can help europe regain its confidence. in the spirit of the 2020 strategy, as a member of the itre committee, i would like to stress the importance of creating industrial policy resources for growth and investment. we cannot allow the policies of iter, galileo and imas to continue to be produced from the resources of research and development by cannibalistic methods. we need independent resources. i agree with the commissioner on this point. we need the kosme programme, we need the european interconnection tool. young workers can only find work in a europe strengthened by a new industrial policy. the biggest loss of the financial crisis is this lost young generation. it's our duty to help them get their jobs! officer, please. in this work, we will support your activities.
my colleague, mr juttaug, has rightly said that if the nobel committee had followed this debate here, we might never have won the nobel peace prize. there are undoubtedly serious tensions between the net contributors and the new member states, the net beneficiaries. it would be good if it were true, as vice-president sefcovic said, that this seven-year budget would be a budget for development and investment. however, i have my doubts about the future of the cohesion and structural funds, and in particular about their internal structure. i have to say that this is one of the biggest challenges for the new member states, because a lot of development and investment has been made from the cohesion and structural funds. and finally, i would like to draw your attention to the case of hungary. unfortunately, the european commission has done a bad job of planning, it has not done an impact assessment, and there is only one country that could lose 30% of its cohesion, structural funds, and that is hungary. that would be unacceptable!
madam president, members of the council and the committee. i wanted to focus on the importance of sport and talk about how important it would be for the next seven-year budget to be able to increase the funding for sport compared to the current draft, which we have a proposal for. i very much hope that the honourable member will support this, because sport has a very important role to play in improving health and working performance in society. however, i must also mention the situation of the hungarian budget in connection with the remarks of tabajdi csaba. i think it would be fair if we spoke honestly and openly with each other and the european commission and the council clearly said what they need hungary to do. i find it unacceptable that after the hungarian economy, the hungarian budget, closed with the largest surplus in 2011, according to eurostat figures, they still do not want to terminate the procedure against hungary since 2004, which i think is unacceptable based on these figures.
in writing. the european parliament is firmly in favour of not reducing the eu budget for the period 2014-2020, as insufficient resources would jeopardise the implementation of the new eu growth strategy, europe 2020, and economic growth, among other things. i would like to emphasise that not only the general budget, but also the regional policy budget, cannot be reduced in the 2014-2020 budgetary period. cohesion policy is a major contribution to the europe 2020 strategy and is essential to overcome the economic crisis. the union has always considered investment to be a key pillar of 'smart' growth, a strategic tool for competitiveness and a key element of european solidarity. its funding should therefore be maintained at least at the level of the period 2007-13. in light of all this, i find it unacceptable that, on the basis of the commission's proposal, hungary would be the only eu member state where gdp per capita would remain below 75% of the eu average throughout the period 2014-2020, while its catch-up aid could fall by almost 30% compared to the current period. i consider that the low growth ceiling and the growth forecast used by the commission to determine the level of aid are unfair and contrary to the spirit of the eu treaty, because they hit the countries with the lowest growth rates the hardest and thus preserve their decline in the long term.
in writing. the next seven-year budget of the european union must reflect the increased scope and ambition of the community: closer cooperation and economic, financial and political union cannot be financed with fewer resources. the budget should be geared to growth, employment, competitiveness and the catch-up of less developed regions. the european budget cuts would inevitably undermine growth and competitiveness, the mutually reinforced objectives without which we would be unable to emerge from the crisis. in many member states, community aid alone is already the basis for economic expansion. cutting spending would further widen the gap between developed and less developed regions, between the wealthy and the poor, undermining one of the most important principles of community, solidarity. it is therefore important that we make it clear in our resolution that the european parliament is opposed to the freezing or reduction of the budget at the current level. the socialist group's demand in parliament that a quarter of cohesion funding from the next eu budget starting in 2014 be allocated to projects promoting employment, social inclusion and poverty reduction is crucial. i also believe it is essential to provide more generous support from the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 to programmes promoting human rights and fulfilling the rights of european citizenship. we must firmly reject any attempt to create a future budget for the euro area at the expense of the twenty-weeks.
mr. president, i have to ask you... facts are extremely stubborn things. the latest eurostat figures clearly show that our crisis management is not adequate. however, the decision-making process at the current summit remains fragile. decisions are not born, only direction is born. i also consider it important that the new banking supervision will be able to start operating on the basis of the existing eu institutions and treaties and that the ecb's monetary policy and supervisory tasks will be clearly separated in the future. we've wasted a lot of time, but that's no reason to make irresponsible decisions about oversight right now, based on a lack of time. those that will disadvantage non-euro area members or those who commit to voluntarily joining the new supervisory regime. it is a well-known fact - we have said it many times, we will admit it - that the crisis knows no borders. it is therefore clear to me that crisis management must also be transnational, taking account of national interests, of course. so saving the euro requires the fullest integration. for us, who are openly committed to joining the euro in the future, it is unacceptable that some people talk about a multi-circle europe in banking supervision. it is a fundamental value of european solidarity that is being contradicted by those who say this. he doesn't understand the word of time, and he refuses to learn the bitter lessons of the past.
mr president, first of all a comment on the ecb board nomination. vice-president reding is about to unveil her proposal for quotas of women on company boards, but wishful thinking without concrete action behind it is not going to solve anything. gender equality is a democratic and fundamental issue. for the rest, i welcome the decision of the ten member states to introduce the ftt, as well as that of the commission to introduce the youth guarantee scheme. the european socialist party and the s&d group have actively campaigned for this for a long time now, and it is about time that this translated into concrete measures. i also welcome the willingness of the upcoming irish presidency to advance plans for that youth guarantee scheme. president barroso himself said that we should do everything possible to avoid dooming a lost generation across europe. however, when i listen to him and president van rompuy talking about growth and employment, i cannot help but wonder how they plan to achieve it without the necessary means and funding.
in writing. – i would like to welcome that the european council meeting of 18-19 october clearly declared that boosting employment and social inclusion remains a priority of the utmost importance and called on member states to step up their efforts to tackle the social consequences of the crisis and to fight poverty and social exclusion. the stumbling of the world economy and the debt crisis strangling our union have accelerated those harmful tendencies, due to which fewer and fewer people are able to maintain a proper standard of living and for more and more european citizens even everyday subsistence represents an insoluble challenge. the european council will devote a special meeting in november to reaching agreement on the next multiannual financial framework, which will be a crucial factor in improving the hopeless situation of the poorest europeans, the marginalised millions of our union. the commission and the parliament have introduced proposals to give priority to the integration of the most disadvantaged communities and i truly hope that the fourteen governments of our political group will promote these amendments unanimously in the council, and enable regional policy to help the most deprived and most marginalised 30 million europeans.
in writing. although the euro area countries have committed themselves not to create their own future budget at the expense of the 27th budget, the legitimacy of an independent euro area budget has been recognised. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections, but that the bank of greece has provided information on the amount of the capital injections and the amount of the capital injections. meanwhile, euro area countries can provide financial support on a contractual basis for structural reforms in less competitive members, while this option is no longer available to non-euro area countries. finally, it is becoming increasingly common to adapt the rules of the single market to the needs of the euro area, simply because the non-euro area countries are in the minority (eu17-eu10). small, open economies like hungary, which are stuck outside the zone, have a primary interest in participating in the deepening integration. if it is locked out, it will be less and less able to finance its public debt, attract the capital needed to operate the banking system and develop, and increase its competitiveness. the orbán government should finally give up its freedom-fighting economic policy, which is in sharp contrast to european tendencies. it will result in the loss of the hungarian economy, the country's permanent backwardness.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its own reading, sets the level of commitments at eur 151.1 billion and the level of payments at eur 137.9 billion for 2013. this corresponds to 1,13% and 1,03% of community gni respectively. this would mean that parliament would give €1.5 billion more in commitments and €5.3 billion more in payments to the community in 2013 than the council. the vote resulted in the adoption of amendments that are important for hungary and would provide more resources for research and development, the eu's neighbourhood policy, the strengthening of border controls and the school milk programme. the increase in the ceilings has helped hungary to save the cohesion fund investments that typically concern the central hungarian region and cross-border cooperation.
in writing. − i support the european parliament's efforts to prevent the reduction of cohesion aid. the council's proposal to cut back aid resources is unacceptable, since the current economic situation is the one that most urgently requires the strengthening of cohesion. we cannot allow differences in development to undermine european cooperation. we cannot support the reduction of subsidies, because today, when the union is experiencing one of the most serious crises in its history, it is essential to maintain solidarity between the member states.
in writing. − the european parliament is firmly in favour of not reducing the eu budget for the period 2014-2020, as insufficient resources would jeopardise the implementation of the new eu growth strategy, europe 2020, and economic growth, among other things. i would like to emphasise that not only the general budget, but also the regional policy budget, cannot be reduced in the 2014-2020 budgetary period. it is of great importance to the friends of cohesion policy, including hungary, that the interim report confirms that eu cohesion policy is a strategic instrument for investment, sustainable growth and competitiveness, and a key pillar of european solidarity. the european parliament insists that this area be supported by a stable, solid and sustainable financial framework and that funding be maintained at least at the level of the 2007-2013 period. in light of all this, i find it unacceptable that, on the basis of the commission's proposal, hungary would be the only eu member state where gdp per capita would remain below 75% of the eu average throughout the period 2014-2020, while its catch-up aid could fall by almost 30% compared to the current period. i consider that the low growth ceiling and the growth forecast used by the commission to determine the level of aid are unfair and contrary to the spirit of the eu treaty, because they hit the countries with the lowest growth rates the hardest and thus preserve their decline in the long term.
in writing. − the next multiannual financial framework will most probably prove decisive for the european union’s objectives regarding social and territorial cohesion, and particularly in the social inclusion of marginalised communities. i would like to welcome the fact that the commission has introduced several instruments aiming at the complex development of underdeveloped regions, in line with the requirement for territorial targeting of the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies and i also welcome the proposal to earmark 5% of the erdf resources of each member state for integrated urban strategies. the draft general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund establish the integrated territorial investment, which enables member states to allocate funding from several priority axes of the operational programmes for the purposes of multi-dimensional and cross-sectoral intervention. in this context the maximum extent of place-based approach should be considered, in order to unlock unused local capabilities. furthermore, the community-led local development, as a set of multi-fund financed strategies with an integrated bottom-up approach may play a significant role in the inclusion of marginalised communities, including roma, when properly used and may represent an effective tool for the involvement of the concerned communities themselves.
in writing. − the new financial regulation contains, for the first time, provisions on financial planning instruments such as project bonds, specifying in which cases and for what purposes they may be used. in the future, the european commission will be able to create multi-donor aid funds, which are already essential tools for international cooperation and assistance. as one of the world's largest donors, the eu has not been able to contribute to existing aid funds such as the un or the world bank. this will then become possible, which will enhance the union's visibility in the field of international assistance. the reporting obligations of the member states for the structural funds have been extended by the regulation and the new regulation provides for a more precise definition, which allows for more effective controls. it is welcome that the new regulation will allow member states to benefit from the possibility of simplifying union control in exchange for guarantees of the correct use of union funds. it is important to emphasise that the regulation will make the european commission and the european administration work faster, as it will set strict rules on the various payments and the time required to decide on the support for each project.
on behalf of the ppe group. other madam president, i have to ask you to leave. before i begin my remarks on the subject, allow me to recall, on behalf of the european people's party, the struggle for freedom of the 1956 revolution, which began 56 years ago. and also about the sad event that happened in 2006, when the government of that time launched an attack on its own citizens and severely violated the freedoms. it was unworthy of the 50th anniversary of the 1956 revolution. (the debate is closed) madam president, i would say to vice-president šefčovič that the commission work programme for 2013 is a key strategic programming document. our parliament, in the different committees and also in plenary, has been dealing with this for quite a long time. we have not seen the new text, so we can only learn from what the vice-president of the commission says, but i would like to welcome the readiness on the part of the commission to take up some of the elements which were discussed here in parliament just a month ago and which were included in our resolution in september. obviously in this time of crisis we have to be more aware of programming, but i would also like to stress as we stressed in the resolution that the commission and parliament have to be flexible and react quickly to the difficult situation. i would like to enumerate some of the points which our group, the european people's party, takes as a condition for the support of the commission's work programme. obviously we give our support when the commission plays its full role in defending the community method. we encourage and would like to see better use of delegated acts, which is a clear distinction in the new lisbon treaty. this must help our controlling role over the commission's work and, obviously, the work of the other institutions of the european union. we also support the commission when it is ready to further reduce the regulatory burden or to identify the regulatory areas which are really important from the point of view of the crisis. obviously we cannot say in general that we should deregulate everything. there are areas which the crisis has shown need more regulation, but the regulatory burden as such should be reduced. we also support the commission when it is ready to improve the implementation and the rate and timing of eu legislation. if we are making laws here in parliament, it is in vain if the member states or the application of that legislation is not affected. we would also like to support the political ambition and vision of the european union in the global world, especially in the light of what president barroso said at the september part-session in his speech on the state of the union. obviously we, as members of parliament who are directly elected, are accountable for the european union's action and lack of action, so we rightly demand added value. we are also ready to respond quickly to different situations and to use the fast-track procedure whenever it is needed for the good of european citizens. but we are also responsible for checking and controlling the commission and other european institutions with regard to the efficient use of taxpayers' money. we would also like to support the commission's line in the area of cohesion policy. you mentioned youth unemployment, which was also part of our discussion last time, and also the employability of elderly people and supporting mobility. i would also like to underline and stress as the vice-president has stressed the creation of the necessary measures in order to strengthen the european industrial base. this is a very important point for our party, as is the full implementation of the internal market with a binding calendar. my last point stems from this: when we are doing something and the commission work programme should be exactly about that showing a roadmap and a binding calendar of how we are going to proceed the next year it should be with flexibility and reactivity, because our responsibility does not stop at fulfilling pre-designed patterns but also extends to creating an innovative reaction to the different elements and events of the crisis. i would like to express, with these conditions, support for the commission work programme on behalf of the european people's party.
in writing. the current crisis calls for stronger leadership than ever at the level of the european union: it is also clear that the recession cannot be successfully managed by relying on the policies that led to the crisis. i welcome the commission's work programme for 2013 because its elements represent what i see as an innovative, different approach to the past, and because it is based on two major pillars of structural reforms for recovery: restarting growth and ensuring budgetary discipline. i also welcome the commission's position in the document 'a year of job-creating recovery' and am pleased to see that the policy changes towards job creation seem to be taking place. i support the commission's efforts to improve governance mechanisms, in particular the partnership principle applied in the design, implementation and evaluation of the national reform programmes. in the spirit of european solidarity, i welcome the commission's intention to seek to prevent the council from obstructing the operation of the eu solidarity fund, which helps member states to deal with unforeseen disasters, by preparing a new proposal. i would like to make a similar point, namely that the transfer of unused structural funds to the new growth agenda should respect the principle of subsidiarity and involve local and regional authorities. i therefore support the commission's work programme and call for its decisive and effective implementation.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 23 october 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! we are only allowed to speak in a voice of respect in any debate that involves israel. because israel has shown in the past decades, in one of the most politically volatile regions on earth, how to build a modern democracy against all odds. the jewish state has proven that it is possible to bring freedom and peace to people where they build dictatorships and incite hatred. i am firmly of the view that the european parliament has a moral and ethical duty to support any move which brings israel and the european union closer together, because culturally israel is part of europe. israel is a state that is constantly proving its maturity in terms of human rights, and the european union should therefore be careful not to interfere in israel's internal affairs. i would like to take this opportunity once again to wish the people of the middle east peace as soon as possible.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of the first subparagraph of article 2 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers (oj l 55, 28.2.2011, p.
the debate is adjourned. the vote will take place on 23 october 2012. (the sitting was suspended at 5.55 p.m. until the time of the vote and resumed at 6 p.m. )
madam president, europe must protect its citizens. last week, hungarian historian andrea varga was brutally assaulted in bucharest by an unknown person on the street. andrea varga is a noted researcher of the communist past. he is currently involved in the restitution of hungarian church property confiscated during the communist dictatorship. in 2009, the european commission commissioned the romanian delegation to organise a prestigious exhibition on system change in eastern and central europe in bucharest. in the final vote on the report on the european year of citizens, i consider it important to draw attention to the case of andrea varga and to ask the romanian authorities and the european parliament to protect him as a european citizen. europe must protect its citizens!
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report drew parliament's attention to the fact that the agency had recently discovered a number of conflicts of interest. in order to clarify these and to promote more efficient and cost-effective management of the agency, the committee did not propose granting the exemption in the spring. the second discharge report was presented to the committee at its meeting at the end of september, where the committee found sufficient assurance that the agency would be run in accordance with the rules in the future. the panel decided to grant the exemption. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report drew attention to the fact that the agency had recently discovered several conflicts of interest, and in order to clarify these and to promote more efficient and economical management of the agency, the committee did not recommend granting the discharge in the spring. the second discharge report was presented to the committee at its meeting at the end of september, where the committee found sufficient assurance that the agency would be run in accordance with the rules in the future. the panel decided to grant the waiver at its september meeting. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − i supported the report on the european year of citizens (2013) because the european union needs the voice of its citizens, especially in today's more difficult economic circumstances. as a member of the european parliament, as an eu actor directly elected by citizens, i consider it important to ensure that the exercise of citizens' rights is protected. in hungary, i am also witnessing the process of increasing the number of eu citizens leaving their own member state to settle in my country. such foreign workers should be aware of their rights and the union should provide them with the maximum assistance in 2013. the effectiveness of the citizens' initiative has been discussed many times in parliament, and i have myself said that i support direct initiatives from such citizens. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i should like to make a special point that the concept of citizenship of the union promotes a sense of respect for the common european values and contributes to cultural diversity.
in writing. − on the commission's proposal, 2013 will be the european year of the citizen. the initiative aims to draw the attention of the citizens of the member states to the exercise of their rights and obligations within the union, in particular with regard to freedom of movement within the union and non-discrimination. the vast majority of european citizens are not aware of the rights and obligations they have as citizens of the union, through conventions and initiatives such as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the stockholm programme. statistics compiled by eurobarometer in 2009 showed that some 11.9 million european citizens work outside their country of birth, and 35% of the eu population have considered trying their luck abroad. however, one in five people think that there are numerous obstacles to overcome in order to achieve this. the main reasons for this are lack of information, linguistic differences and difficulties.
in writing. i would like to welcome the initiative to dedicate 2013 to european citizens and the twenty years of existence of european citizenship. such a thematic term may provide remedies to the shortcomings of practicing this right, namely the lack of widespread knowledge and awareness regarding the benefits that european citizenship may provide to all european citizens, students, workers, or pensioners. it must be made clear that these benefits are not the privileges of the elite, but are the fruits of one of our most important community acquisitions that everyone is entitled to without discrimination. we therefore expect information and awareness campaigns to be launched, that target all citizens of the eu, with a special regard to vulnerable groups, who due to their socio-economic status encounter serious difficulties when exercising their right to move, reside and work freely everywhere within the european union.
in writing. − the finalisation of the single european sky legislation would allow europe's airspace to be used in the most efficient way possible, both for the economy, for growth and job creation and for the protection of the environment. the most appropriate means to achieve this is the development of a new generation european air traffic services system (sesar) which could successfully replace outdated technologies and the associated safety and operational risks. the greatest obstacle to the creation of a single european sky is the existence and operation of existing national air traffic control service providers, which operate across national borders. in the future, the current system is expected to lead to congestion as european airspace is about to reach its maximum capacity and will indirectly affect the quality of air transport services provided to the public. the creation of a single european sky should therefore be supported.
in writing. − the previous commission communications contained proposals for all modes of transport. the draft single regulation on passenger rights covering the different modes of transport must be feasible in the medium term, which is essential for the harmonisation of the different modes of transport. the regulation addresses air transport problems by clarifying passenger rights and airline liability issues such as denied boarding, long delays, flight cancellations, loss of baggage and the development of airport infrastructure access. the 2009 ec regulation has significantly strengthened the rights of rail passengers, but as the union rules were designed with the specificities of travel in mind, it has given member states the possibility to exclude certain services from the application of passenger rights. this requires the development of new guidelines to strengthen passenger rights, taking into account the differences between modes of transport.
in writing. − the extension of passenger rights is a key element in strengthening the freedoms of the union, as it contributes to a better exploitation of the right to free movement. unfortunately, eu citizens are not sufficiently aware of their rights, so it is important that we give them the knowledge. i think that citizens should also be made aware that they are protected in the event of a single event, such as the failure of an airline or the shutdown of a volcano. increasing passenger rights can also increase passenger confidence in different forms of travel, as there is no economic growth without this confidence. mr bach's report is exemplary in that it proposes solutions to a number of current problems. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2010, the court of auditors concluded that, on the basis of its audit work, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure for the financial year ended 31 december 2010 were, overall, free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. however, the council did not provide parliament and the committee with a number of documents necessary for the closure of the accounts procedure, without which the financial year 2010 cannot be closed. the panel decided at its meeting at the end of march to postpone the granting of the exemption. the second closure report for september also gave an opinion similar to the spring report. the vote in the specialised committee was to reject the council's discharge. i did not support the council's granting of the discharge in the committee vote or in the plenary vote.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report highlights that the main problem with the european environment agency is that several procurement procedural errors occurred in the management of the agency in 2010. the report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest. pending clarification of these, the exemption was not recommended by the panel. at its meeting at the end of march, the committee decided to postpone the final report. it considers that further clarifications on the agency's management in 2010 are necessary in order to provide the agency with a final report. the situation has remained essentially unchanged since spring. in my view, the agency should have made more efforts to restore orderly management and proper operation. i voted in committee and in plenary to reject the discharge.
in writing. - it is clear that israel will apply this agreement on its territory. a compromise solution could be that this protocol does not specifically describe the areas to be covered. this is called "constructive indeterminacy". the eu's position is that a palestinian state should be established with east jerusalem as its capital in the gaza strip and the west bank. this is a political position that lacks any basis in international law. palestine never existed in history and the palestinian people are a political projection that lacks ethnic foundations. the only way to create a palestinian state is for the plo to reach an agreement with israel, but it is not willing to do so. the eu should not be affected in its activities at all. the eu wrongly claims that east jerusalem and the west bank are 'occupied palestinian territory'. the mandate for palestine treaty provides for the establishment of closed jewish settlements in jerusalem and west of the jordan river, including the west bank. the settlements established by israel are thus not contrary to international law, but only to the political and legal decisions of the eu, which are in turn contrary to international law. i repeat, the eu should not be involved in this debate. especially not because he's wrong. ashton's objection to israeli construction is unfounded.
in writing. − more than half of the money spent on aid to the world's poor countries currently comes from the european union and its member states, and therefore the union's development policy must be treated as a matter of paramount importance. i believe that the report presented by the rapporteur, mr goerens, is innovative in many respects and contributes to the fundamental objective of eu development policy to eradicate poverty in a sustainable way. i myself agree that the eu's trade promotion support should not only focus on promoting exports from developing countries, but also aim at local and regional trade facilitation. in order to promote inclusive growth and aid effectiveness, there is great hope for the innovation that loans can only be credited as official development assistance in donor countries if, on ex-post analysis, they have actually contributed to poverty reduction. the report also highlights the need to strengthen entrepreneurship and private sector development in developing countries, and the importance of creating a good business environment for smes and micro-enterprises and their access to credit. it is a pleasure to note that the report addresses and seeks to address the need for stronger coordination of development policy actions by member states and other eu actors through the establishment of an independent analyst-advisory group. i therefore supported the development policy report because of its innovative initiatives.
in writing. − the commission has so far presented three communications: industrial policy: boosting competitiveness, small enterprises, the big world a new partnership to help smes seize global opportunities and minimising the regulatory burden on smes adapting eu legislation to the needs of microenterprises. the three pillars were designed to help smes in the eu survive and strengthen their competitiveness. there are some 23 million smes in the eu, employing some 75 million people, or 70% of all eu jobs. further strengthening the competitiveness of smes requires economic restructuring, enhancing industrial innovation, resource efficiency and creating a business environment that enables european smes to compete globally. the governance model of the enterprise europe network is an essential tool for this and to further reduce the administrative and management burden on smes and facilitate the provision of tailor-made support. it is also essential to establish contacts with chambers of commerce and other interested parties.
in writing. − while the commission and the member states have made real efforts to improve the competitive position of smes, further action is still needed. i continue to attach importance to any initiative that ensures that eu instruments to support smes are used more effectively or that contributes to the smooth running of this business community. the sme test, which was mentioned in yesterday's debate, is a good example of the latter, and it allows a preliminary examination of the impact of legislation on smes. i should also mention the operation of the eu sme portals proposed by mr rübig, which would allow european programmes for smes to operate more efficiently. a well-functioning single market creates a competitive environment in which smes are still at a significant competitive disadvantage, in large part because they lack sufficient information about business opportunities and in part because a lack of language skills is a major obstacle. i therefore believe that an eu strategy for 'better' regulation is needed and that the ambitious proposals put forward by mr rübig are essential to make the european union more competitive and attractive for investors and producers, which is why i voted in favour of this report!
in writing. − almost three quarters of all jobs in the european union are provided by small and medium enterprises and, furthermore, 85% percent of newly established work places between 2002 and 2010 were created by this sector. it can be clearly seen that not only do smes play a key role in the european economy but enhancing their competitiveness and helping them engage more people may also vitally contribute to the recovery from the economic crisis and may reset the eu economy on a trajectory of growth. the union should develop and launch tailor-made programmes in order to boost the entrepreneurial potential of eu citizens, especially targeting vulnerable groups excluded from the labour market, for whom self-employment as an alternative may provide a way out of poverty and marginalisation. in this regard, i would like to welcome the commission’s successfully implemented plan to reduce the administrative burdens by 25% this year.
in writing. − while some 98% of us-eu trade is free of problems and substantial obstacles, disputes are a serious strain on the atmosphere of bilateral relations. despite frequent high-level consultations, there are still a number of issues to be resolved and some new cases are emerging. i welcome the fact that mr moreira has made a number of recommendations to improve the development and integration of our knowledge-based economies and to promote innovative technologies. the proposals include, for example, identifying priority areas for research cooperation, deepening policy dialogue and promoting higher education exchange programmes. i therefore voted in favour of this report, as i believe it is a response to our commitments made at previous summits to develop a strategy and practical proposals for a more open and efficient overseas market.
in writing. japan is the european union's third most important trading partner. the conclusion of a free trade agreement would bring numerous benefits to both parties. europe could increase its exports and create new jobs. hungary is particularly interested in the opening of free trade negotiations, as this could significantly facilitate hungarian agricultural exports to the far eastern country. the agreement will allow the japanese automotive industry to make further investments in europe and hungary, thus creating new jobs.
the creation of the single market was a huge step for european citizens. i believe that the legislators in 1986, when they created the package of legislation, followed a guiding principle. the first is unhindered access to funds, goods and services, and at the same time the free movement of persons. however, let us not forget that there are still 80 million eu citizens who are partially or totally excluded from these. it is of paramount importance that the single market is made accessible to persons with disabilities. whatever the disability, it is the obstacles that are immediately associated with it. these must be dismantled as soon as possible, for they are the product of society, not of our own disability. mrs. bastos pointed out and made suggestions for the transmission of the clearance. for that, i thank you. i take this opportunity to reiterate the need for a european accessibility package in the current economic crisis. because people with disabilities do matter!
2012 is the 20th anniversary of the single market. this anniversary is a good opportunity to think together and to overcome the obstacles that prevent us from exploiting the full potential of the internal market. but as we celebrate, we must not forget that the main beneficiaries of the single market are citizens and businesses. it's our job as legislators to do that on their behalf. so our task does not end with creating good legislation, it must include good implementation, and also create synergies across borders between the different national public administration systems. i would like to stress that the internal market is the best available tool for restoring economic growth and that it is therefore very important that all single market issues are dealt with as a matter of priority. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and i also welcome the efforts made by the european commission in this area so far. however, i believe that this process should be continued. even greater commitment is needed in the area of enforcement. we have made significant efforts to implement quick and efficient information portals, but parallels have also emerged which will hamper this work. it is very important that in the future we define our objectives using a consumer approach. i would like nothing to prevent member states from treating this issue as a top priority in the future.
in writing. as the itre expert committee responsible for the opinion, allow me to briefly highlight the concerns of citizens in the energy and telecommunications sectors and to suggest solutions to improve the situation of smes. in the energy sector, consumer dissatisfaction is mainly due to the complexity of energy bills and the lack of answers to why energy prices have recently risen. the regulation is also very permissive in several member states, so that energy suppliers are not obliged to provide consumers with adequate information. in order to ensure adequate protection of consumers' rights, member states should transpose union legislation as soon as possible. in the telecommunications sector, the main problem is the quality of the internet service, and it is also difficult to compare prices and service packages. the role of regulatory authorities and consumer organisations should be strengthened and transparency ensured in order to monitor service quality and prices. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have problems accessing national and eu funding. smes have difficulty accessing the information on the application and do not have employees who are experienced in writing applications. the situation of smes would thus be greatly helped if member states introduced a so-called one-stop shop for the mobilisation of union and central funding.
in writing . the single market, celebrating its 20th birthday, has changed the way european citizens live, work and travel, and has become an integral part of our lives. the opportunity for enterprises to enter european markets has been opened up. without the single market, there is no european union, it is the foundation of prosperity that makes europe stronger. we must do everything we can to ensure that the internal market continues to develop so that our children can live in a safe europe in 20 years' time, with greater access to its values. what do we have to do about it? we need to open our minds to the unimpeded flow of creativity and knowledge that leads to innovation and growth. we have connected transport networks, and now we must also connect energy and telecommunications networks, to finally connect 500 million europeans. we must create a united europe that not only our grandchildren will see, but that the young generation entering the workforce now will not feel like a lost generation. my dear colleagues, let us dream big, let us dream of a united and prosperous europe.
in writing. i think there is not a young adult in europe today who has not heard of the erasmus programme, which offers higher education students the opportunity to study in another country for a longer or shorter period. the fact that more than 200 000 students took part in this popular higher education programme in the last academic year 2010/2011 alone is proof that erasmus is one of the european union's most successful achievements, with positive effects far beyond the realm of higher education. however, it appears that the funding of the programme is now in jeopardy due to recent eu budgetary cuts. although the european commission will propose to supplement the 2012 budget with the necessary funds to run erasmus, if the member states and parliament cannot agree on additional payments, there will be no funds to cover students' studies for the next academic year. i know that the prolonged economic crisis of our time and the resulting budgetary restrictions affect more or less all the countries of the union, but i ask the member states to support the commission's proposal. without proper training for the professionals of the future, we have no chance of recovering from the crisis.
in writing. − the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and serbia and the interim agreement allowing for the early application of the provisions on trade and trade-related matters contained therein were signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008. the former is still in the process of ratification. the proposed regulation provides, inter alia, for price quotas for fish and fishery products, trade defence measures and customs tariff regulation. several agreements with the western balkan countries have been concluded in the past and are part of the trade omnibus regulation i. they aim to harmonise existing regulations in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the common commercial policy. this is the only way to ensure that the european parliament's position on the subject is consistent and coherent. the agreement is another important step towards our southern neighbour becoming a full member of the eu.
in writing. − the decision will give our citizens more tangible help from the union when they are in a third country. the adoption of the report also represents a major step forward in the protection of hungarian citizens, as it will help them in situations where they need it most anywhere in the world outside the union, because their situation and return would otherwise be impossible due to an accident, an attack, a natural disaster or even the loss of documents. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the adoption and future application of the draft directive on consular protection could be proof that solidarity between countries still exists and can be mobilised within the union. this directive strengthens the protection of our citizens in situations where they feel most vulnerable. in the most difficult moments, being part of the european union gives them a chance. the directive we have just voted on requires that in the event of lost documents, arrest, accident or illness, those member states which have representation in a particular region, in any remote part of the world, must provide the same assistance to unrepresented union citizens as to their own nationals. they must also provide protection where the citizen concerned would have to make a disproportionate effort to reach his own diplomatic mission (a journey of more than one day). i regard this as a major step forward in the protection of hungarian citizens in situations where they are most in need of protection anywhere in the world outside the union, because their situation and return to their home country would be rendered impossible by an accident, an attack, a natural disaster or even the loss of documents. we are also interested in the part of the directive that increases the role of the european external action service and the eu delegations and the coordination of consular protection, i am thinking here of the current case of the bolivian prisoner of conscience, el príncipe tomás. this is an important gesture by parliament, the council and the commission towards their own citizens.
in writing. − eu citizens travel outside the eu more than 90 million times a year, but only the united states, china and russia have diplomatic representation in all 27 eu countries. these figures also reflect the high priority of consular protection for union citizens. the report adopted today, in my view, represents a further step forward in this area, as it will make it easier for citizens who are not represented by a member state in a non-eu country to have access to consular protection. in line with the idea of a greater europe, i welcome the involvement of the european external action service and eu delegations in consular tasks, with responsibility for coordinating cooperation between member states in crisis situations and for evacuation. this eliminates the unfair situation that one member state bears the entire burden of coordination in such cases. the proposal also simplifies access to financial assistance in crisis situations and makes it easier for the donor country to recover its costs. the document is therefore based on european values and solidarity between european nations and i believe it is an important step towards european citizenship, which is why i voted in favour of adopting the report.
in writing. − the right of unrepresented eu citizens to consular protection abroad under the same conditions as member state nationals is one of the union’s most important achievements and is symbolic of its solidarity and its common identity towards third countries. moreover, the provisions for extending consular protection – including the broad definition of being unprotected, the clarification as to when the embassy or consulate of the citizen’s own member state is non-accessible, and the inclusion of protection for third-country family members of eu citizens, to the same extent as member states provide it to the third-country family members of their own nationals – bring great practical advantages for individuals.
in writing. − the european union is currently experiencing its worst economic crisis since its creation. unfortunately, in some cases, this crisis is threatening the very foundations of the european economy. i would like to stress, however, that the internal market remains the best available tool for restoring growth in the economies of the member states, and that it is therefore very important that all single market issues are dealt with as a matter of priority. i welcome the efforts made so far by the european commission in this area, but i believe that more commitment is needed in the future to implement european legislation. it is gratifying to note that in recent years a number of instruments have been developed to further stimulate the completion of the single market and to measure the contribution of individual member states to this objective. the internal market scoreboard is one such tool, for example, which encourages member states to improve the quality and timeliness of the transposition of internal market directives. so the question is, what further action do we need? i myself would vote for more decisive but realistic targets for transposition and implementation. the aim should therefore be to achieve the lowest possible transposition deficit, the shortest possible transposition delays and the highest possible quality of transposition. mrs bastos' report highlights the concerns of our citizens and businesses, and it is our task now to respond to them and to address these problems as quickly as possible. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the conclusion of a free trade agreement would bring numerous benefits to both parties. europe could increase its exports and create new jobs. hungary is particularly interested in the opening of free trade negotiations, as this could significantly facilitate hungarian agricultural exports to the far east. the agreement will allow the japanese automotive industry to make further investments in europe and hungary, thus creating new jobs.
in writing. − japan is one of the world's largest economies and the european union's third most important trading partner. the conclusion of a free trade agreement would bring numerous benefits to both parties. europe could increase its exports and create new jobs. hungary is particularly interested in the opening of free trade negotiations, as this could significantly facilitate hungarian agricultural exports to the far eastern country. the agreement will allow the japanese automotive industry to make further investments in europe and hungary, thus creating new jobs. the suzuki plant in esztergom would have access to japanese automotive parts with lower or duty-free duties, thus increasing its competitiveness vis-à-vis other car manufacturers. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the world is changing at lightning speed if we take demographic changes into account: in less than ten years, the world's population has increased by 1 billion, and will reach 9 billion by 2030. however, the higher intensity of world population growth will extinguish slower economic growth in its processes. globalization is contributing to this, as it has created a balance of power between states, but within states the gap between rich and poor is widening. this is most evident in the development of brazil, china and india. the changes in africa are promising, with more countries holding free elections, more accepting of the concept of political economy. the african union is taking serious steps to manage problems at the regional level, but it is already clear that the millennium development goals of 2000 will not be achieved by 2015. europe, as the largest donor to the 'transformation programme', therefore has an obligation to speed up the implementation of the programme and increase its effectiveness. for some emerging economies, the most pressing problem is not the production of goods but their equitable distribution. the five main objectives set out in the proposal are primarily intended to combat poverty, taking into account new actors such as china and india or new phenomena such as the extremely high birth rate.
in writing. − the european union has a major role to play in development policy, with the main objective of reducing poverty and, in the long term, eradicating it, and can make a major contribution to this if it makes good use of the fundamental synergies between eu policies. the european union's action in the field of development cooperation is based on cooperation between member states and international actors, on the need to ensure consistency between european policies and development objectives, and on the principle of aid effectiveness. i myself agree with the part of the draft report which says that only 3.4% of the commission's development aid budget is spent on direct food interventions, whereas malnutrition kills some 2.6 million children a year. it is a pleasure to see that the report highlights the corporate social responsibility obligations of companies to encourage employers to apply social standards that go beyond the current provisions. i still disagree with the rapporteur that, contrary to the commission's promise, it has not proposed to extend the european parliament's powers of scrutiny over the european development fund. i believe that the implementation of the recommendations in the report would be more effective in promoting policy coherence for development, and i therefore supported the vote on it.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr ferber on both reports, because he has done a very good and excellent job in them. the crisis has also highlighted the complexity and opacity of certain financial activities and products. new trading venues and products have emerged very quickly, and technological developments such as high-frequency computer algorithm-driven trading have also brought changes to the financial services market. these are things that we as legislators have to respond to for the good of both the public and the profession. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposed framework strengthens and harmonises the activities of investment firms in this area and the powers of the authorities supervising markets in financial instruments. this also includes a special focus on cross-border cooperation. it is important that supervisory authorities are also able to deal with undesirable market influences or threats. in this respect, i strongly support the strong role of the european securities and markets authority within the proposed framework. it should also be borne in mind that high frequency trading can pose risks to the liquidity and even efficiency of financial markets - this is particularly true in times of crisis. i therefore consider it important to introduce amendments that introduce appropriate organisational safeguards for trading venues. given the recent difficulties experienced by smes in accessing finance and assuming that difficulties will reappear in times of market stress i certainly consider it timely to establish sme emissions trading platforms. i agree with commissioner barnier's earlier statement that we must ensure that financial markets serve the real economy and not the other way around. once again, congratulations to the rapporteur and i will support the report.
on behalf of the s&d group. it is good that the vice-president of the european commission, mr sefcovic, has made that statement. the danube strategy is one of the major achievements of the hungarian eu presidency, but it is highly appreciated by all the central european countries, including the danube countries. in this region, cooperation is the biggest missing piece. the positive thing is that the danube strategy is finally encouraging the danube states to cooperate more closely in the areas of transport, irrigation, shipping and tourism. it is very important to make the danube navigable, and in this respect my country, hungary, has important work to do. but it is equally important for slovakia, hungary, romania, all the danube member states to use the danube for irrigation. because this capacity, this irrigation capacity, is hardly being used. and it's very good that in the reform of the common agricultural policy, in the second pillar, rural development, there will be eu funds for irrigation. this could provide additional incentives for all danube countries.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! as a hungarian representative, i am very pleased that this subject is on the table of the european parliament and that we can now debate it. i am particularly pleased that almost all of the previous speakers have been supportive of this issue. it's very important that we finally get some real results. indeed, interconnected markets can bring countless benefits to the region concerned: they can result in more efficient operations, they can provide opportunities for greater competitiveness and they can create sustainable jobs. the danube is a natural linking stream that specifically marks one of europe's most important development regions. it also involves countries outside the union in this cooperation, which may also lead to closer thinking and greater interdependence. this could be a further step in cooperation between non-eu and eu countries. i am also proud as a hungarian representative that the hungarian government has done everything possible to fill this programme with content. just a few weeks ago, it sent the member states a list of specific projects that could be implemented jointly in the framework of cooperation.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate you on the preparation of the report presented by mrs mazzoni. the european ombudsman has taken promising steps over the last two years to make his work more transparent for the citizens of the union. i think that this is a direction that we must not lose sight of, especially now that the european year of citizens is approaching. it is worth stressing, however, that while the lisbon treaty has given new rights to the world of direct democracy, notably the right to a citizen's initiative, we must be cautious about the critical powers affecting freedom of information. as i stressed in my speech last october, access to information must respect the fact that information, whether in the field of law enforcement or security and defence policy, can be obtained in such a way that its confidentiality guarantees the safety of european citizens. thus, there can be no requirement for greater access to classified information, especially for political marketing purposes. at the same time, it is important and an exemplary endeavour from the point of view of the report for the ombudsman to undertake that the institutional system and institutional practice develop and develop in a certain sense alongside the needs and aspirations of citizens. it is a good practice to be able to deal with any problems that arise locally, if possible, on the basis of clear and transparent standards. we hope that the ombudsman will be able to carry out his duties in the light of these considerations and with an open mind to social needs.
madam president, i would like to welcome the fact that the european council meeting of 18 and 19 october clearly declared that boosting employment and social inclusion remains a priority of the utmost importance and called on all the member states to step up their efforts to tackle the social consequences of the crisis and to fight poverty and social exclusion. the stumbling world economy and the debt crisis is tragic for our union and has accelerated the harmful trends which mean that fewer and fewer people are able to maintain a proper standard of living. for more and more european citizens, everyday subsistence represents an insoluble challenge. the european council will devote a special meeting in november to reaching agreement on the next multiannual financial framework, which will be a crucial factor in improving the hopeless situation in the poorest european countries and for the marginalised millions of our union. the commission and parliament have introduced proposals to give priority to the integration of the most disadvantaged communities, and i truly hope that the 14 governments corresponding to our political group will promote those amendments unanimously in the council and facilitate a regional policy that helps the most deprived and marginalised 30 million europeans.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. my fellow members of parliament! i would like to address my remarks to the european commission first and foremost, and i am very pleased that a representative of the commission is still in the chamber. the kyoto protocol, established in 1997 under the un framework convention on climate change, expires in 2012, so in doha, member states are making another attempt to extend these commitments for eight years, until 2020. although individual member states, including hungary, have made individual commitments, the european union is regarded as a single state under the so-called 'bubble principle'. therefore, the eu's 2012 emission reduction commitments and associated burdens are largely represented by the central and eastern european member states, including hungary. hungary has committed to a 6% reduction under the kyoto protocol, compared to a 25% saving. we therefore find the commission's position that it does not allow the reserves thus created to be carried forward to the next period and possibly sold unacceptable. while these cee countries would need the resources they could attract and would otherwise use them for new environmental and emission reduction investments. the hungarian government has made specific proposals on this matter, and i would very much like the commission to discuss this and to be able to use this in future negotiations.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at its last meeting, the foreign affairs council expressed its deep concern at the deterioration of the situation in belarus, the violation of human rights and the complete absence of democracy and the rule of law. the council found that the process of the september parliamentary elections was not transparent and fair. in view of the critical situation, the union has rightly suspended the partnership and cooperation agreement with belarus. i suggest that our next message to the government of belarus be unmistakable. we must also ensure that the belarusian society is fully supported, since the european sanctions are not directed against it but against the dictatorial regime. i call on the european external action service and the high representative to take the strongest possible action to ensure that belarus cooperates unconditionally with international human rights fora, releases political prisoners with immediate effect and puts an end to torture and executions.
in writing. in georgia, voters expressed their opinions on the socioeconomic situation of the country, the state of democracy and human rights, and the security policy of the current georgian leadership in the south caucasus. i personally think the foreign policy outlook is very positive right now. i welcome the fact that mr ivanisvili will wish to continue and even deepen the reforms achieved so far, especially given the strong support of the georgian public for this process. i also welcome the fact that the politician also wants to achieve georgia's nato accession and closer eu integration. i hope that the election results will allow georgia to begin to normalise its relations, to build constructive and respectful relations with its neighbours.
in writing. − the european ombudsman has the power to remedy any complaint concerning maladministration concerning eu institutions, bodies, offices or agencies which does not fall within the direct competence of the judiciary or the public authorities of the member states. in 2011, 27% of the complaints registered by the ombudsman fell within the ombudsman's remit alone. this ratio has been increasing in recent years. i welcome the new interactive guide available on the ombudsman's website, which has made a significant contribution to reducing the number of notifications of requests for information. the ombudsman introduced simplified procedures in 2011 which were beneficial to citizens, increasing the number of inquiries and the time needed to conduct them, but also helping citizens more effectively. while the majority of cases opened in 2011 concerned the european commission, complaints against the european parliament fell by half compared to 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the amendments help to prevent money market speculation in commodities, which often leads to significant increases in the prices of food and energy. the proposed changes would limit the number of contracts or positions that members or participants of a given market may enter into or maintain within a certain period of time and would also ensure pre- and post-trade transparency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on markets in financial instruments because the decision will increase the powers of the authorities through the new rules and will provide clear operational rules for all trading activities. in fact, today certain financial activities and products have become extremely complex and opaque due to the fundamental transformation of financial markets. the union must keep pace with these changes in order to protect citizens and consumers.
in writing. − i believe that the powers conferred at eu level by the coordination of economic policies must be accompanied by strong democratic accountability. this is the main message of the report, because the european semester as a tool for economic governance has proven to be too bureaucratic and lacking in a political dimension. while cutting spending and improving competitiveness remain important objectives, economic policy coordination should better reflect the eu 2020 growth objectives and should also focus more on tackling tax avoidance. the report emphasises these aspects, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the european semester is a tool for setting country-specific economic objectives and for coordinating member states' national budgets and reform programmes, including the europe 2020 strategy. most of the projects under the 2007-13 mff are still at the implementation stage. however, the restructuring of funds in certain policy areas, which are financing programmes at a slower pace than expected, and the temporary relaxation of co-financing rules all indicate that the eu institutions are taking appropriate measures to ensure that the union's economic governance is on the right track and that the objectives are achieved as soon as possible. helping smes, strengthening support for research and innovation and facilitating the employment of young people is a welcome step.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i welcome the decision that the eu will use the nobel peace prize money to support children affected by war or other armed conflict. as a consequence of these conflict situations, child poverty and violence against children are increasing worldwide, and we must fight them with all means at our disposal. i would like to draw your attention to another phenomenon which is a serious problem here in the union and which affects our young people every day. we often hear the term 'lost generation' because of the high youth unemployment rate, so it is important to create more government programs that improve the employment situation of young people and to create forums where young people themselves can make their voices heard by decision-makers. so i'm glad that this new generation program has finally started in hungary. every young person has a talent that needs to be discovered and nurtured, so that they can develop skills that can increase their competitiveness in the labour market. and i want to personally contribute to that with a written statement on talent management that just started in november. i hope you'll support it.
mr. president, the officer's wife. twenty-three years ago, the ceaușescu regime collapsed. there was no multiparty system then, and opposition was persecuted, harassed. it is shocking that after 23 years, members and supporters of my party, the transnistrian hungarian people's party, are being harassed and intimidated in the same way. the prosecutor's office, the police summon them, they visit them at their workplaces in szatmár, beszterce-naszód, hunyad, szeben county, where they signed their support for the creation of our party. it is known that the national elections will be held on december 9th, so they attack our party because we are against corruption, we strongly support federalism and autonomy, minority rights. i ask commissioner reding and the parliament, the commission, to ensure that the ponta-antonescu government does not violate the rule of law, democracy, freedom of choice, minority rights, the values of democratic pluralism.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, on 5 may 2010, the european parliament adopted by a very large majority 488 votes in favour the multiparty resolution initiated by my colleagues jános áder and lászló tőkés, calling for a ban on cyanide mining technologies by the end of 2011. unfortunately, the european commission has so far done nothing to ensure that legislation is enacted after parliament's decision to regulate this issue and to ban this extremely dangerous mining method in europe. recent events and future developments suggest that there will be more problems in this area in the european union, as the environmental protection agency has already granted a licence to operate a cyanide mine in upper carniola, romania, albeit on a smaller scale, and a mine in kremnica, slovakia, is also being prepared to reopen. if we do not want these processes to lead to a mining initiative in verespatak, the european commission must do something.
dear mrs. reding, fellow members of the house. i'm interpreting the cry for help of hungarian citizens who are in complete distress. in three resolutions, the european parliament has already warned the hungarian government that it is still unwilling to respect fundamental human and social rights. just a year ago, the hungarian government announced a review of the eligibility rules for invalidity pensions. i would like to draw mrs reding's attention to the fact that the allowance for former recipients of disability, accident disability pension and regular social allowance has been converted into a benefit that can be reduced or even abolished. the hungarian government thereby again retroactively deprived a group of hungarian citizens of a right which was an acquired right. he had earlier praised the government's one-party constitution for guaranteeing the rights of the disabled. in the light of this decision, this is not only outrageously cynical, but also a gross violation of the fundamental principles of social europe.
the aim and content of the report are welcome. in emerging and developing markets, where, for example, card payments are not yet widely used, it is important that the interbank remuneration strategy focuses on providing adequate incentives to the issuing side. the report does indeed set out the laudable and ambitious objectives to be pursued in the area of card, internet and mobile payments, but the rules must take account of the specificities of the member states. they should be examined and weighed individually and carefully, for example in the case of the recapitalisation of the interbank remuneration strategy. in my view, the strategy for the level of commission should be designed in such a way as to ensure that it contributes to the growth of the market for this type of payment. this means that the strategy must always be adapted to the development and maturity of the payment market concerned.
the theme could not be more timely, since it coincides with the regulation of bank capital requirements, the establishment of banking supervision and the practical implementation of the european semester. the european union is apparently trying to assess the causes of the financial crisis that has occurred in order to avoid or prepare for possible future financial events. the transparent operation of shadow banking without systemic risk should be monitored in the future. it is well known that while their activities can stimulate trade and stimulate money flows, they can also cause sudden and massive damage in the absence of the safety nets of the traditional banking system. the key is therefore indeed to be cautious and to avoid that shadow banking based on hedge funds, money market funds and investment vehicles endangers european banks and exposes money markets to systemic risk. the goal is clear, and now even with the development of the tools, we're just in time.
mr. president, i have to go. a digital expert once explained to me here in parliament that letting a child into the world of the internet without proper protection is like putting a little child in the middle of the busiest highway and not giving him any help to get to the side of the highway. i think - as a family man - that the will to act that is now the union is very important, and this report is very important, because there is a growing need for all of this, but also for the member states to have a comprehensive combination of legal, technical and educational measures. because education, and i want to emphasize this right now, is not just about educating our children in this area to know the five most important rules of using the internet, but also about the educational materials that are distributed to parents and educators, to those who work in education. to make parents, teachers, and other people aware of the dangers... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the importance of the subject is also shown by the number of members who have signed up to speak in this one-minute genre. thank you very much for going to such lengths to study this material. he provided a lot of statistics to confirm the importance of this case. i am the vice president of the hungarian branch of the international children's rescue service, and we are part of the european union's safe internet program. i think we've done a lot to educate kids and parents about safe internet use, but i see that it's not enough. i'm a father of four myself, and i see that children's access to the internet is possible in a number of places outside of the family. so it's not enough to deal with education, it's very important that there is organized coordination between the member states to prosecute, to prevent cybercrime.
in writing. – the agenda of promoting digital literacy and enhancing the access of young europeans to the internet and to the unparalleled learning and communicating opportunities provided by it also raises the concern of how to protect our children from the dangers stemming from their ever growing online presence. member states and the commission therefore need to support and launch awareness raising campaigns targeting children, parents and educators in order to provide the information necessary for the protection against cyber crime, as well as to encourage them to report suspicious websites and online behaviour. it would also be beneficial if authorities would reach agreements with content providers and server hosts to repel illegal or threatening activities in mainstream online media, most typically in social networks. national and international procedural rules for shutting down websites hosting exploitative, threatening, abusive, discriminatory or otherwise malicious content need also be properly established.
borrowers sometimes face higher-than-expected loan costs because some important information is not or is not clearly communicated to them. it is a common negative experience that the terms of consumer loans are often difficult to interpret. this year, as mentioned by the rapporteur, an eu-wide investigation looked at a number of websites advertising consumer credit. in my country, hungary, for example, sixteen. of these, 11 were found not to comply with eu consumer protection rules, but there are much worse cases, for example 93 were examined in belgium, of which 89 were found to be problematic. i think this result is actually disappointing. in my view, it's not just banks that have a problem with their credit structures, but it's also credit intermediaries, because oftentimes, companies that claim to be credit intermediaries turn out to actually represent a consumer group, and therefore they tend to mislead consumers. our job is twofold: to represent consumers, and on the other hand, to regulate the companies that engage in this deceptive practice.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague van de camp on his report. i feel that this long-awaited proposal is a good way of drawing attention to the sector and to the requirements that these vehicles must meet in order to be manufactured. however, while regulating, we must also be mindful that the two-wheeler industry is a major player in the eu economy and jobs. some 100 medium-sized manufacturing companies account for 90% of european production, while the remaining 10% is shared by a number of small manufacturers. they are all active in different eu countries. i believe that the weaknesses behind the minor problems so far have been mainly regulatory in nature, or that there were directives, regulators, standards, regulations, such as the environmental standard, which was born in 2006. the european commission has therefore proposed further progress towards the gradual introduction of new euro rates over the next decade. this report also includes provisions on vehicle safety, as improving the road safety of motorcyclists is also a priority of the european union's strategic objectives for 2011-2020. it is therefore important that we deal with this issue properly so that the end result has a significant added value for all of us. improving the functioning of the internal market requires, on the one hand, unrestricted access to vehicle repair information through the provision of technical information in a regulated form and, on the other hand, genuine competition in the market for vehicle repair and maintenance information services. it is therefore appropriate to lay down technical specifications for manufacturers' websites and to provide for targeted measures to ensure that they are also accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. this is extremely important in the current situation. in addition to the many positive aspects of the report, it also takes over the market surveillance procedures under the relevant regulation compared to the previous control system, and thus aims to establish a much more effective control system. it is also important to distinguish between type-approved and non-type-approved products, so that the inspection of all components and separate technical units that are incorporated into a vehicle is now covered. overall, therefore, we can say that we will be able to exploit the synergies resulting from the revision of motorcycle type-approval legislation. the speaker did an excellent job. i would like to congratulate him once again and we have no further action to take but to ensure that the regulation is implemented in the best possible quality and in the shortest possible time to achieve the objectives set out in the report.
blue-card question. – you said that we should not talk on behalf of our nation states but on behalf of the whole of europe. what is your advice to me if i come from a member state where workers make about eur 250 to 300 a month without any labour protection, in factories owned by, for example, your member state and other ‘old’ member states? do you think we can all speak the same language? do you not see that there are considerable differences when we speak on behalf of our nation states? what is your advice to me in that regard?
mr president, economic and monetary union cannot be viable and sustainable without two indispensable ingredients: fiscal discipline and democratic legitimacy. permanently strong fiscal discipline should result in structurally balanced budgets across the business cycle, in order to avoid debt traps. at the same time, for fiscal discipline to hold, solid democratic legitimacy is necessary, based on an enlightened political culture of civic responsibility. at this stage in the development of the eu, fiscal policy has to remain national because full democratic legitimacy exists only at national level. setting budgets, imposing taxes and redistributing income are inalienable components of national sovereignty. that includes also the right of states to go bankrupt, while other states should maintain the right of refraining from bailing out bankrupt ones. for market capitalism and liberal democracy to survive in this century, bankruptcy should remain a credible threat not only for enterprises but also for central and sub-sovereign governments. fiscal socialism, the demutualisation of debt without commensurate mutualisation of national sovereignty, is untenable and unacceptable. it will only destroy the remainder of european fiscal discipline and further weaken democratic legitimacy.
firstly, i welcome the report and secondly, i would like to congratulate rapporteur marianne thyssen on her excellent work. it was not an easy task, either in terms of the time constraints of the report or the content of the report. the report before us, ladies and gentlemen, is a response to the van rompuy report and is an integral part of the package of measures to strengthen economic and monetary union. i am convinced that, in addition to the observance of coordinated economic policies and fiscal restraint in the member states, it is essential that the union has at its disposal a system of supervision that is accurate, capable of covering, predicting and, where appropriate, managing systemic risks. this new regulation should therefore not only create a more predictable regulatory environment but hopefully also restore the financial market confidence as well as the distorted financing relationship between banks and sovereign debt. the completion of all the elements of banking union would reduce the cost of financing for euro area banks, which would have a positive impact on their lending activity on a cross-cutting basis, thus giving a new impetus to europe's economy. it is therefore in our common interest that european banking supervision should be established, but it is not at all important what role the new system now being established will play for those member states which wish to cooperate but have not yet adopted the single currency. i have therefore sought in my amendments to give priority to balancing the obligations and rights of these member states and to creating a financial guarantee which would mitigate or eliminate the distortive effects of the banking union. after initial debates and disagreements, the draft report has found broad support in our committee, which i am glad to see, and that this debate is not coming to an end but is continuing, as we can put forward our more detailed, more practical clarifying opinion in two more legislative packages.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! we have had a lot of debate over the last ten years about whether to enlarge the european union or deepen it. today we know the answer: the european union must be both enlarged and deepened. however, it is not acceptable that after enlargement, deepening leads to a further split. but this requires not only that the european union remains open to non-euro area member states, but also that the euro area member states show that they want this process, show their populations that they want this process. that's what i was going to ask pelczné gáll ildikó. i believe that non-eurozone governments should be encouraged to step over their own shadows, to step over their own weaknesses, and to do everything they can to be equal members of this european community. it is in the interest of the people who live there, and we must do everything we can to make it happen. i'd like to congratulate the reporter. i think that's the idea in his report. so once again, europe must remain open, and we must be moving towards it.
europe is drifting along. the crisis has not yet resolved the challenge of timely responses by europe's political elite, and the divides are growing more worrying, not just among eurozone members. today, these fractures are the most disturbing. but i am also concerned, as a new member state, that a deep gulf could develop between non-euro area and euro area member states on banking union, which would threaten the unity and development potential of the european union as a whole. that is why i think it is extremely important to note what my colleagues have said, namely that the european crisis management has now developed into such a complex web that even in this house very few of us have the capacity to see through it, much less to control it democratically.
the 2020 strategy set ambitious goals regarding the industrial sector which we need to meet if we want to exit the crisis. rethinking europe’s industrial policy is therefore paramount, as we all know. this ranges from education, research and innovation to the promotion of sustainable production. promoting innovation also means supporting young entrepreneurs – especially young female entrepreneurs – whose talents are still largely underexploited. europe also needs to invest in its infrastructure, especially regarding traffic networks, while taking into consideration national and regional specificities. to do so, europe needs adequate funding programmes, such as connecting europe or the horizon 2020 strategy, which could play an important role and require a budget that is sufficient. moreover, we must do our utmost to prevent the social catastrophes we witness today when it comes to industrial restructuring. to that end, fostering social dialogue is crucial. therefore i would like to ask how the commission intends to better associate trade unions with this strategy.
as you know, i asked in my questions what the situation is concerning young women entrepreneurs because i believe that we have a tragic youth unemployment problem in europe. we have a strategy and i believe we need to deal with this goal as effectively as possible. of course i would really like to thank both of you for your engagement in supporting viviane reding’s proposal concerning the quotas involved. i believe that without you it would not be such a great success. i know that it has been watered down a little bit, so it is not my original plan, but we have taken a further step in the right direction. so, if you could respond to that i would be more than happy.
i ask commissioner andor in our common language, hungarian, how it is possible for them to work in the industrial sector, particularly for multinational companies and foreign-owned companies, in third world conditions in a full-fledged member state of the european union. what do you think about that, and what is your explanation for that, and where are the limits of competitiveness, that hungarian people work for wages of around 250-300 euros in your country, with no rest period, without any work rights, they can be thrown out from one day to the next, they work three shifts without union protection. what's the explanation for this, officer? how can this happen in a full member state of the european union?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr zwiefka, as it raises a number of questions of legal certainty. i myself believe that the effectiveness of jurisdictional agreements should be improved, as this will also avoid the use of 'abusive tactics'. the report shall also cover enforceable judgments given in the member state in which the original proceedings were instituted. here, the aim should be to make the enforceable judgment enforceable in other eu member states without any intermediate proceedings. in my view, the effectiveness of arbitration agreements also needs to be improved in order to give full effect to the will of the parties. i am confident that the implementation of the recommendations in this report will significantly increase legal certainty.
in writing. − the adoption of the brussels i regulation is of decisive importance for the creation of a single european judicial area. the purpose of the regulation is to establish closer cooperation between the authorities of the member states by removing obstacles resulting from differences in legal and administrative systems, thereby facilitating the exercise of the right to a fair trial. the revision of the brussels i regulation is a success story for european consumers, businesses and the internal market as a whole. the new rules will benefit citizens and businesses by promoting legal certainty and making decisions more predictable. the abolition of the exequatur procedure is a significant achievement. this will allow a judgment enforceable in the member state of origin to be enforceable in other eu member states without intermediate proceedings, thus speeding up the free movement of judgments. it enables quick, fair and efficient dispute settlement, thereby facilitating cross-border trade by smes and contributing to growth.
in writing. − given that the retail and wholesale distribution of chemicals is risky and a matter of concern from a safety policy point of view, i strongly support efforts to tighten licensing. it is important to note, however, that the remedial action will only succeed if the final result also provides certain risk benefits for the consumer. in the light of the situation of farm workers, it is therefore necessary to recognise that the scope of activities subject to authorisation should be regulated at the level of the distributor. in this context, i welcome any effort to promote the harmonisation of the functioning of national authorisation offices, in addition to the strict notification requirements and the continuous operational supervision, thereby contributing to the development of bilateral consumer legal certainty.
in writing. − the proposed regulation allows for certain recruitment competitions to be opened up exclusively to croatian nationals until 2018. the application of this regulation is open to all countries in the process of accession, as was the case in 2004 and 2007. the general staff regulations provide for the possibility for any citizen of the european union, irrespective of his or her nationality, to apply for a post in an eu institution, but as croatia is not yet a member of the european union, that provision will enter into force at the latest until croatia's accession to the european union, in order to allow the acceding country to be adequately represented in the staff of the european union without undue delay through the transitionally adapted requirements.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of croatia as a newly acceding country being granted positive discrimination in order to be adequately represented in the european union staff, in particular in the croatian-speaking staff, without undue delay.
in writing. − accidents in recent years, such as the oil spill in the gulf of mexico, have reiterated the need to ensure that offshore oil and gas operations are conducted under strict safety rules and controls. as more and more new fossil fuel exploration is taking place in the european union, it is important that european regulation keeps pace with these trends. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the recommendation to ratify the mediterranean protocol, as it also confirms the union's commitment to this issue at international level. however, it should be noted that the rules can only be complete if they not only state the 'polluter pays' principle but also require adequate financial guarantees to ensure that the polluter is actually able to pay for the damage caused by an industrial disaster.
in writing. − the report is to be supported, as it is very important that, in addition to fiscal reforms and budgetary cuts, member states should be able to apply policies that are fundamentally based on economic growth and job creation. however, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, these objectives require priority social investment and employment-friendly measures at union level. it is therefore essential to support the idea that budgetary and economic policy cooperation and surveillance should be supplemented in future by additional employment and social policy elements, together with, of course, scoreboards to monitor the correct use and the appropriate investment performance, and a more targeted use of the structural funds.
in writing. − beside the short term objective of re-establishing the stability and sustainability of european public finances, consolidation measures need to be matched with a definite focus on social investment and employment policy. targeted social investments are needed on the one hand to help families and individuals adapt to the changing economic environment, and on the other hand to contribute to the creation of sustainable jobs and supporting all european citizens that are excluded from the labour market – with special regard to the young and the long term unemployed – in returning to work. social investments have proven to be excellent tools for matching skills available in education and training with the demands of the labour market as well as for reconciling the goals of economic and social policy. the exchange of good practices in this field should therefore be fostered by the european commission and member states should consider tax advantages for social enterprises and for investors in social businesses. furthermore, social enterprises should be made an investment priority within the framework of the european regional development fund and european social fund.
in writing. - i agree with the report in principle. from a hungarian point of view, i think it is important to highlight the point which aims to increase the resources to be spent on promotion and information measures. in order to increase efficiency, it is appropriate to restrict the use of these cap resources to publicly owned and controlled entities. i voted in favour of the report for all these reasons.
in writing. − the quality of administration of succession law is not the same in the member states of the union. accordingly, those burdens may be particularly high for operators in the lower categories of the market, as they are more affected by the administrative costs of enforcement. i voted in favour of mrs gallo's report, because her proposals suggest that the right of succession does not affect the market on which works are sold and does not have a negative impact on the circulation of the art market. for this reason, i - in agreement with the rapporteur - consider it of the utmost importance that the commission continue to work closely with the parties concerned to consolidate the situation on the european art market and to remedy the difficulties that have arisen.
in writing. − the succession directive introduces a compulsory succession right for the benefit of the author of the work and his heirs after his death. successive rights are rights in intellectual property rights which entitle the author and his successors in title to a share in the sale price of any subsequent sale of the work after the first sale by the author. the right of succession has been recognised in hungary for decades, but the directive has only been fully applied in all member states since 1 january 2012. the purpose of the legislation is to harmonise the basic conditions for the application of the succession right in order to consolidate the position of the european art market in the world.
in writing. − the report aims to make the ordinary legislative procedures more efficient and transparent by introducing binding rules to enhance accountability. the european parliament ensures that citizens have the opportunity to know what their elected representatives are saying and how they are voting during each legislative procedure. the public nature of debates and votes strengthens representative democracy at european level.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic crisis, the european parliament is following the efforts of the member states and has adopted a cost-saving package for the 2012 budget. as part of this, parliament has undertaken to reduce administrative costs, which includes limiting the automatic translation of verbatim minutes of proceedings into all languages. i am voting in favour of limiting the current costly dual system of translation and interpretation. in my view, the use of the original language for oral proceedings alone leads to considerable budgetary and resource savings, while maintaining the principle of multilingualism. modern technology has enabled parliament to make audio and video recordings of its meetings available to all on the internet, not only after each sitting, but also during live broadcasts, with simultaneous interpretation into all the official languages of the union.
in writing. − the two-wheeler industry is also an important part of the european union's economy and jobs. it is necessary to improve the functioning of the internal market, on the one hand, in order to provide unrestricted access to vehicle repair information through the availability of technical information in a standardised format, and on the other hand, in order to ensure genuine competition in the market for vehicle repair and maintenance information services. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague wim de kamp, because its innovative proposals can help to tackle many of the problems of type-approval and market surveillance in the motorcycle sector. i believe that this long awaited report provides sufficient attention to the motorcycle sector and to the requirements that can be expected for the production of two-, three- and four-wheel vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mr panzeri, as it proposes to contribute to the competitiveness of the industry by simplifying the existing legislation on vehicle type-approval. i am convinced that, in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, it is appropriate to introduce an eu type-approval procedure for all vehicle categories, while taking due account of cost-benefit considerations, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. i myself believe that the rapporteur has proposed a considerable number of technical amendments, the purpose of which is to clarify certain technical aspects and to ensure greater coherence in the text. i believe that mr panzeri's report draws sufficient attention to the problem areas of the sector and to the new requirements.
in writing. − in recent years, the hungarian card payment market has been on a steady growth path. although it may take another 10-15 years for the domestic card payment rate to catch up with western european rates, the catch-up has been clear and unbroken. i myself believe that it is impossible to guarantee that the benefit of the reduction in interchange fees is passed on to consumers by the traders. as i indicated in my plenary speech, a possible regulation of commissions might ensure a reduction in the costs of traders, but it would also have a number of adverse effects on the market as a whole. i therefore supported the report, but i voted against the amendments relating to points 41 and 43 of the proposal, in view of the foreseeable consequences of the regulation.
in writing. − three years after the financial, social and economic crisis, the proposal voted today is timely, as close monitoring of shadow banking activities is indispensable both to manage the crisis and to prevent future financial market turbulence. it is well known that while their activities can stimulate trade and money flows, they can also cause sudden and massive damage in the absence of the safety nets of the traditional banking system. the report aims to develop a database and information system that will facilitate the monitoring of securities market operations and repo transactions and thus increase the prospects of avoiding systemic risks in the future. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the proposal with a clear yes.
in writing. − rapidly changing technology requires rapid responses. the vast storehouse of the digital world is no longer limited to desktop computers, but also includes smartphones, tablets, and so on. educational institutions are adapting to the digital world, minors are becoming more familiar with the internet and are moving around much more at home than adults. several studies have shown that, on average, children spend an hour and a half a day surfing the internet, starting at age nine, and in many cases, they're learning to use the internet before they've learned to read and write. however, ensuring wise, responsible, and safe use of the internet would require adult help. it is important that they are aware of the potential dangers to their internet use, including internet and video game addiction, and that distraction from reality can distort the way minors relate to their identity. the proliferation of chat rooms and other messaging options has increased the availability of minors' personal data in the digital world. you have to wear gloves in the fight against illegal and harmful content. the easy access to online content related to online harassment, racism, violence, discrimination allows the unwary and naive child to be unaware of the violation of human dignity. the responsibility for preventing minors from accessing illegal content lies with the family, the school and civil society. the intention to set up an electronic age verification system is welcome. however, it is regrettable that the agreement between the 17 community site operators and the commission, which was concluded in 2009 and was intended to protect the safety and security of minors, has not been implemented. the owners and administrators of websites should provide a system for the mandatory provision of parental consent for the processing of personal data of children under 13 years of age. the biggest problem with this is that when minors face age-related internet restrictions, they either give false identities or authentic information but an older age when registering on the site.
in writing. − protecting children is a key issue everywhere, whether in the real world or even in the digital world. it is a sobering fact that european children spend 40 hours a week in front of the tv, and 88 minutes a day on the internet. i myself believe that children, in the absence of supervision and control, are exposed to many dangers. fortunately, programmes and working methods have already been introduced in many eu member states to try to keep pace with the demands of the digital world. i voted in favour of the costa report because, like my colleague, i believe that the main tasks for member states now are to regulate harmful content, to combat sexual harassment online, to protect children from online crime, to protect data protection and digital identity, and not least perhaps the most important is the safer internet programme, which is being implemented in all eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the above report, which aims to put the role of social enterprises in the european union at the forefront. there is no doubt that the number of social enterprises is growing across europe, but their support requires more and more regional and cross-border cooperation and additional funding. however, these areas of work are far from complete, as there is still further work to be done to define the concept and scope of social enterprises, to define the role of the employees involved and to identify possible business models for social enterprises in europe. the report before us has outlined ideas on all these issues, which are also forward-looking for the future of the single market.
in writing. − social enterprises may significantly contribute to the fulfilment of the eu2020 objectives and therefore the twofold goal set forth by the commission’s communication and also by this report to recognize already existing social businesses and to pave the way for the creation of new and innovative forms needs to be pursued and more effectively communicated. the european commission should create an online public database of fair businesses, quality schemes and labels to serve as a multilingual information and exchange platform for social entrepreneurs, business and social investors, also in order to facilitate accessibility of csr information and improve transparency. a european regulatory framework for ethical investment funds and a quantified headline target on social businesses needs also to be developed by the commission in cooperation with the member states, in order to support social businesses through eu policies and to increase their number, and consequently the jobs they create.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today in strasbourg on a draft report that would introduce stricter fiscal discipline in the european union and take concrete steps towards the completion of the banking union. the thyssen report, towards a genuine economic and monetary union, was drawn up in response to the decisions taken by the european council in june. the document points out that in recent years financial markets have become increasingly fragmented and opaque, a situation which has contributed to the european financial, economic and social crisis that continues to this day. it is therefore essential that, while respecting the economic policies and fiscal restraints of the member states, which are also coordinated at european level, the union should have at its disposal a system of supervision capable of accurately covering, predicting and, where appropriate, managing systemic risks. the creation of the new structure will create a more predictable regulatory environment and, in addition to financial market confidence, will also restore the distorted financing relationship between banks and sovereign debt. i therefore voted in favour of the draft report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, which responds very well to the deepening of economic and monetary union set out in the june council meeting by including the integrated financial framework as one of its objectives, alongside the integrated fiscal and economic austerity. the main objective to be achieved - which has been incorporated in the report in the form of amendments - is that we should have equal rights and obligations as non-euro area member states when we wish to join the emerging banking union system in the future. another positive aspect of the report is that it openly calls on the member states and the commission not to disregard the position and role of the european parliament in the design of european banking supervision and in its subsequent accountability.
in writing. − the initiative to create a genuine economic and monetary union is well-suited to the range of economic policy measures adopted by the eu so far, since, in addition to national and fiscal discipline, banking supervision is also included in the common economic and monetary policy. the initiative is also of great importance to non-euro area member states, as national supervision of banks has so far proved insufficient to stem the economic crisis. i consider it important that when the new banking supervision system is established, we ensure that hungary can join the common supervisory system with the same rights and obligations.
my fellow members, gentlemen of the jury! in fact, in the united states, the use of unconventional gas has fundamentally transformed the energy market in recent years. the alternative source of gas, which accounts for more than half of the production, has led to a significant decrease in gas prices in america and the need to rely on imported sources, as pointed out by several in this debate. in the midst of a protracted crisis, europe cannot afford the luxury of not weighing such an option carefully, and of course responsibly weighing the pros and cons. so i would like to highlight some factors that can help us to form a balanced view of the subject. what can shale gas mean for security of supply, competitiveness and environmental protection? first, the security of supply. the union can mitigate its gas supply exposure by exploiting alternative gas sources. the new resources will enable europe not only to offset the depletion of traditional gas resources in the north sea, but also to reduce the unilateral energy dependence of some member states. secondly, the question of competitiveness. as the us example shows, the proliferation of alternative gas sources can lead to lower prices as competition in the gas market increases and consumers' bargaining power improves vis-à-vis large gas suppliers. the new resources can thus improve the competitiveness of european industry and reduce the burden on the population. and finally, we look at the environmental aspect. maybe it's the most complex. on the one hand, as gas is one of the cleanest fuels, the exploitation of alternative gas reserves could be an appropriate transition to a low-carbon energy production. on the other hand, proper regulation and effective supervision are needed to ensure that companies comply with the highest environmental standards when extracting.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i think this conversation has gone wrong. europe cannot afford to be ideologically biased towards any one energy source. we need both renewable energy, nuclear energy, conventional and non-conventional fossil fuels such as shale gas, and new forms of energy such as those that nobel prize winner george olah has discovered with the methane economy. the only place in europe it's in is iceland. china provides half of the world's methane energy. in hungary, my country, there are four promising gas fields. i myself, as a member of the environmental committee, consider it very important to respect environmental considerations. i think this is a key issue, but we can't take a step that will close the path of development to shale gas extraction while maximizing environmental protection, so i ask that you make a wise decision on this matter.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr boguslaw sonik, on the excellent work he has done to reach a compromise that is acceptable to all on the extremely important report on shale gas. as a hungarian representative, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is not initiating a european moratorium on unconventional gas extraction, thus allowing each member state to decide independently in the future on the exploitation of its energy resources. as with all human activities, shale gas extraction can never be risk-free, and it is therefore important that the existing environmental regulatory framework is fully applied. but we must not make the mistake of creating additional rules based on fears that have no scientific basis, which make it impossible to adapt this promising technology to europe. it should be borne in mind that shale gas can increase security of supply in certain regions of europe and can also have a positive impact on energy prices by creating new supply on the fossil fuel market. the commission also found that the union industry was able to increase its sales volume by more than 50% during the period considered. it is also a well-known fact that the us 'shale gas revolution' will significantly reduce us demand for middle east gas supplies, making them cheaper and easier to supply to european consumers. in view of all this, i would not consider it fortunate if the eu regulation made it difficult or impossible to exploit an energy source that could, under the right conditions, contribute to the energy supply of the union and hungary.
in writing. the automotive industry is one of the last industrial sectors in europe to be able to support a significant workforce. europe must break with the faulty economic policy of excluding production from our economic community. the european union needs a patriotic economic structure in which the car industry is given particular protection. restructuring is imperative, as the economic crisis has brought new challenges to european societies. i would like to stress that hungary is exemplary in this respect, where investments by mercedes or audi have created a lot of new jobs, which have also been complemented by infrastructure developments that are useful for everyone. i think it is unacceptable that local smes should be given a greater role as suppliers.
let me start with a historical recap. when we were preparing the accession of the nine new member states to schengen, we heard from the council that this could not happen on schedule because sis ii was not yet ready. then they said we'd have to wait a few more months. this was early 2007. then, thanks to the portuguese presidency, accession finally took place in december 2007. we're about to celebrate its fifth anniversary, and we're still waiting for sis ii. there were a lot of promises. let's hope this is the last of them. we argued then that schengen was not a technical issue but a political one. it shall be based on and strengthened by trust between member states. one of the most important conditions for the functioning of the internal market. the introduction of sis ii is a step forward in areas where it is badly needed. it contributes to the security of the region, improves data protection, enforces fundamental rights and supports community decision-making in this area. we sincerely hope that it will also help to bring the long-standing issue of romania and bulgaria joining schengen to a head. the portuguese presidency has been committed to helping the cause of the countries joining in the previous round. the commission's commitment and the council's commitment are still very much needed.
my dear colleagues, the committee on petitions is the conscience of the european parliament, and in many ways of the european union as a whole. for many european citizens, it is the ultimate refuge in protecting their right to asylum. it is therefore very important that it does its job well and i fully agree with mr chichester's report, the committee on petitions is doing excellent professional and political work and it is very important that there should be greater coherence between the european commission and the committee on petitions. this is all the more necessary because petitions concerning violations of fundamental democratic rights have increased in recent years. it is regrettable that in recent months a number of petitions have been received from my country, hungary, to the commission because the hungarian government has retroactively abolished the old-age and service disability pensions, as well as the support for regular social allowance recipients and the support for law enforcement officers. i am confident that the committee on petitions will provide substantial assistance to those whose basic human rights have been violated in these matters.
i congratulate you on your excellent report. the growing number of petitions is an important signal. respect for our common values still leaves much to be desired in the union. more and more european citizens are aware of their rights, want to exercise them and know that they can petition the commission, the european parliament if their fundamental rights are infringed or if they are discriminated against. the increase in the number of petitions in one area is a sensitive sign of the increase in national restrictions, in violations. for example, in 2011 the number of petitions concerning freedom of the press and expression increased from 26 the previous year to 131. our aim should be to not only respond to complaints but also to find real solutions to petitions in cooperation between the committee on petitions and the european commission.
in writing. it is a matter of common and indisputable fact that the growing role of the committee on petitions in the european parliament accurately demonstrates and reflects the seriousness of european citizens in their dialogue and direct participation with the eu institution. both the themes and the number of themes summarised in the report leave no doubt that the committee on petitions should be given a new look and a more prominent role and greater powers, as the report states. the weight and cause of this is, moreover, not only due to the foregoing but also to two other factors. on the one hand, this is justified by the 'more europe' approach that has been formulated and announced, since it is impossible to imagine a political and structural representation in which a weak and incompetent committee acts as a mediator between the citizen represented and the member. on the other hand, the growing euroscepticism in some member states is the result of an effective and fruitless dialogue. in summary, i agree with the report in its content and in its stated and expected objectives and i support it fully. it should be a genuine point of contact with an autonomous and clear role.
on behalf of the s&d group. this report, together with the previous discussion, shows where we stand on the implementation of our core values. it raises a lot of important questions. it emphasises the role of the member states' judiciaries, the importance of training and cooperation. it welcomes the growing number of petitions. it is important to the foundation of democratic governance, the rule of law. i would like to support the rapporteur's idea that the narrow interpretation of the charter of fundamental rights, that is to say that it can only be held accountable at eu level if the member state transposes and applies eu law, is often a source of dissatisfaction and frustration. many see it as a sign of the union's weakness, its lack of credibility. i would therefore encourage the commission, together with the rapporteur, to use the means at its disposal to safeguard the letter and spirit of the treaty, if it is not ensured at member state level.
blue-card question. – do you think, mr swoboda, that it is fair to eu taxpayers that israel destroys gaza every now and then? every couple of years the citizens of the european union have to build it up again. would it not be fairer to stop israel killing innocent people in gaza and stop the violence and stop the occupation as well?
the council is about to make the same mistake it made in handling the crisis. just as the crisis management has led to recession and record unemployment instead of growth and job creation, the planned large-scale reduction of the eu budget would lead to further fragmentation, widening the development gap. some policy priorities: it is important that the resources of the european social fund, its share, remain intact in order to mitigate the serious social and labour consequences of the crisis. we have to stand by our values. accordingly, we must provide resources to support the common refugee policy, the integration of migrants, fundamental rights and the fight against discrimination. the stakes are whether we choose to catch up, to represent the value of solidarity, or to break down, to tear apart. parliament cannot allow this!
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the house of representatives, the crisis of the european union is now obvious, but it is also clear that cohesion policy is one of the eu's success stories. let's not try to fix what's not broken. cutting cohesion funding would only add to the problem. it would cause further severe economic and social tensions, further undermine political stability and further reduce trust in the european institutions. mr president, allow me to give you the example of hungary. over the past two and a half years, the hungarian government and the hungarian people have made extraordinary efforts to ensure that the country finally escapes the excessive deficit procedure and avoids the risk of suspension of cohesion funds. as the european commission's recent country report shows, the hungarian government's successful crisis management programme has kept the government deficit below 3% for three consecutive years for the first time since hungary's accession to the eu. this result is both a success for the hungarian people and for europe. hungary can finally break out of the dead end into which the previous governments led it. however, this also requires cohesion resources. my fellow members of the house of representatives! solidarity is the key to europe's success. and cohesion policy has clearly proved to be the most successful instrument of solidarity so far. let's keep her safe.
in writing. today we are ostensibly discussing the next eu budgetary framework, but in reality it is about much more than that: it is about the future of europe. while we talk about a europe that wants to emerge from the crisis and develop, and even demand sustainable structural reforms from the member states, we fail to recognise that neither new ones can be built nor can we catch up with abstract resources. the fact that the solidarity pencil of the budget contributors is worn out is understandable from a certain point of view, but it is not acceptable. although cohesion policy has been a real success story in the history of the union, you are taking steps to destroy it too. but i agree with mr farage that it is unacceptable that the previous hungarian socialist government used public funds to support dog-training. as president barroso said, there is no magic wand here. as an economist, i say that this is not the time to look at the budget in detail, but to make a clear political decision now.
in writing. – i cannot agree with those who based on short-sided and economically incoherent views, are urging the european union to do more with less money when we need so desperately to boost growth and employment. how can we explain to the increasing number of working poor in the eu that the funding aimed at combating social exclusion and poverty will be significantly reduced? how can we explain to our citizens that the gap between new and old member states will be widened due to the reduction of cohesion funds? to women victims of violence that successful european programmes such as daphne are likely to be significantly curtailed? how do we expect the eu to keep its commitments to development and the promotion of human rights with such large cuts in the european development fund? we are at a turning point of the european construction. we are faced with two choices. we can either continue to pave the way for austerity and national withdrawal hoping for the better without any concrete vision to exit the crisis. or we can make the choice of an ambitious european union willing to invest for the future of its citizens.
in writing. the european union is one of the largest economic players in the world. to further increase its economic and political power, it is essential to support a budget that fosters solidarity between different member states and generations, creates synergies between different policies, while further enhancing competitiveness. i therefore reject the political aspirations which seek to weaken or destroy the european union through the budget. in order to preserve a united europe, the next seven-year budget must therefore contain the following: each budget chapter should ensure that the objectives and commitments set out therein are achieved and should not be based on the detriment of individual chapters. each restriction shall be distributed proportionally between the chapters. it seeks a level of cohesion where free movement is not a compulsion caused by lack of prospects, but a free choice. it ensures effective catch-up of cohesion countries, which is not attempted by circumventing these countries. it does not question the european social model. the budget should clearly emphasise priorities. the socialist group believes that the topics of priority are budgetary unity and full flexibility, the european stability mechanism and political consensus on own resources.
in writing. − the legality of immediate financial support from the solidarity fund should not be called into question by the european union in view of the magnitude of the earthquakes in italy in may 2012. the natural disaster caused heavy human losses and enormous material damage. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report. however, i consider it important to emphasise that within the union, not only natural disasters can have serious consequences, but also industrial disasters caused by human error or natural disasters, for which the solidarity fund cannot provide support to a country in difficulty. i believe that this situation should be changed and that a union instrument should be established to provide immediate and effective financial assistance to member states in the event of industrial disasters.
in writing. − how many children have to die in gaza, how many palestinian homes have to be demolished because of the construction of illegal settlements, how many more years of occupation contrary to international law will it take before the european union takes seriously its own basic norm that not only the member states but also the associated states must respect human rights? how many times can israel destroy gaza, and how many times must the damage caused by the aggressor be repaired with european taxpayers' money, aid, and the rebuilding of public buildings and housing, before the union finally has the strength to stop the destruction of the jewish state? how long can israel keep gaza under a full blockade as the world's largest prison until the eu finally says: "so far and no more!" the european union which is so sensitive to the rule of law and the full application of legal principles and legislation when, for example, the regulation of hungary is the goal should immediately suspend its association agreement with israel as long as this associated country refuses to comply with binding eu human rights standards. since we were voting today on an agreement that, on the contrary, explicitly extends the rights of the aggressor country as an associated state, as a respecter of human rights, i had no choice but to vote no.
in writing. − i voted in full and strong support for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2011, as it became clear that there is a growing need for independent tasks and powers. the report leaves no doubt that this is the forum most used by european citizens to report european infringements, thus placing an increasingly important and responsible role on the commission. in summary: the report is strongly supported by the demand that the role of the committee on petitions be reassessed in terms of its own competence and procedural role.
in writing. − the committee on petitions has an important role in eu practice in offering public assistance to eu citizens who feel they have been the victim of a miscarriage of justice or a deprivation of rights in their own country in relation to something that is the subject of common eu standards. at the same time, the lack of decision-making power of the committee is a constant source of frustration for petitioners and, in many cases, for committee members. it may, at the very most, decide that the european commission, which has the power to take a decision, may not close the case too early. the committee on petitions played a very positive role, for example, when the representative of the european commission, in a way that is incomprehensible to many of us, refused to acknowledge, in the context of the venice decrees, that the continued application of the venice decrees today does not mean the healing of wounds from a closed historical past, but rather a serious violation of fundamental rights applicable to the whole of the union. the overwhelming majority of the committee on petitions, regardless of party affiliation, rejected the ombudsman's position.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, we are not in an easy position, because, as i said in previous speeches, it will be very difficult to achieve results in doha. i was impressed by the attitude of commissioner hedegaard and the vehemence with which she presented her case here. i think that this is the only way to represent the european position. however, we must not ignore the fact that we are not united on many important issues. this was clear in the committee debate and in the preparatory phase of the parliament. it should be borne in mind that the central and eastern european region has contributed the bulk of the commitments made up to 2012, thus bearing the burden of the eu commitment, which could now be badly affected in the next period if we are unable to transfer the quotas. so i think that we must take these proposals, which the hungarian government made at the durban conference, into account and do everything we can to present a unified position, as my colleague florenz has said, otherwise there will be no unity. we must be able to carry these quotas over to next year... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
my dear colleagues, the doha climate summit, which begins next week, is our last chance to get answers to one of humanity's greatest global challenges. i fully agree with the commissioner's position, but it would be good if we could find our partners, in particular the usa, china and russia and other emerging countries, to support this. it is particularly important for the central european member states, as my colleague mr banki has said, that the kyoto emissions system should continue to function, because we, the new member states, would lose very substantial sums, including our own country. in our country, we would really need this money for renewable energy, energy efficiency, the panel housing renovation program, so we would be very interested in this system continuing and getting access to our legitimate money.
in writing. international climate negotiations have been widely regarded as a failure, with no binding agreement being reached. from the negotiations so far, it seems that we have to accept the idea that instead of big clashes, small steps can be taken to show success. in the commitment period 2013-2020, such a step forward could be the establishment of an international financing structure that provides an adequate basis for joint financing of the fight against climate change. the establishment of the climate change fund seems a promising initiative, but it is necessary to ensure that the large emitters mobilise their support resources despite the economic crisis. in addition to international efforts, it is important that the union's climate policy does not place member states that have achieved emissions reductions in excess of those set out in the international agreement at a disadvantage. the central and eastern european member states have recently exceeded their kyoto commitments and can carry over the surplus to the post-2012 commitment period under the international treaty. in the current difficult economic situation, a union proposal which would prevent surplus countries from having the right to transfer quotas is unacceptable. it is essential for european economic growth to be launched by enabling surplus countries to sell their allowances, which are important national assets, beyond 2012, so that the proceeds can be used to invest in renewables and energy efficiency.
my dear officer füle! this is an excellent report and it would be good to point out to the candidate countries that the copenhagen criteria (the rule of law, human rights, regionalisation, minority rights) and reforms should not be done because brussels expects them to be done, but because it is in the interest of these peoples. so it would be very important to reverse this, and it would be very important to warn these member states not to follow the wild capitalist, neoliberal model in one area of economic transformation, which unfortunately has been implemented in the new member states that have already joined. and one more thing. it has the credit of the european commission and the european union to meet the copenhagen criteria if the member states that already exist meet the copenhagen criteria, even if they are a minority... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 22 november 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i believe that the enlargement process is not just about the countries wishing to join. the enlargement will also provide lessons for the member states. for example, in order to improve the credibility and effectiveness of the enlargement strategy, member states should also fully respect the copenhagen criteria, thus avoiding imposing stricter expectations on applicant countries than on individual member states, for example, in terms of the protection of national minorities. it is important that the union takes account of the commitments not only during the accession negotiations but also after accession to monitor their fulfilment. the current enlargement package gives a strong role to traditional national minorities, as these communities are present in significant numbers in the candidate countries. mutual understanding and historic reconciliation are key to enabling these states to embark on a genuine european path. therefore, there is a need to educate and learn about each other's history, language and cultural heritage during and after the accession process. finally, i would like to emphasise that civil society, in addition to the public authorities, has a major role to play in the enlargement process. it is therefore important to encourage greater involvement of non-state actors, in particular the social partners, and the development of close partnerships and cooperation during the enlargement process, both from the candidate countries and the member states. no one can solve problems on their own.
in writing. throughout its history, the european union has succeeded in moving many countries towards democratic consolidation and the development of market economies. the western balkan countries, which have been at war with each other for a decade and a half, have also taken this path. croatia will be welcomed as the 28th member of the union next year, with the other former yugoslav successor states and albania, albeit at different speeds, moving closer and closer to joining. membership requires serious effort on the part of those who wish to join. it is right that the conditions have been tightened and that the situation of the judiciary and fundamental rights is given priority in the process. it is important that civil society and non-state actors are involved in the ongoing dialogue between brussels and the capitals. if we want the european union to remain an attractive community, we cannot afford to be complacent about our achievements. i support the wording of the report which calls on the european commission to develop a detailed proposal for a monitoring mechanism to assess whether eu member states continue to comply with the eu's fundamental values. this is the only way to ensure that the union's greatest success to date - enlargement - remains authentic.
the following is a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in gaza.
i have been given seven motions for resolutions to wind up the debate. i close the debate. the vote will be held on thursday, november 22, 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following joint debate item is prepared by: report by arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) (2012/2138 ((ini)) (a7-0357/2012); report by ioan mircea paşcu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's mutual defence and solidarity guarantees: policy and operational dimensions (2012/2223 ((ini)) (a7-0356/2012); report by tunne kelam, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on cybersecurity and defence (2012/2096 (ini)) (a7-0353/2012); report by tarek tarand, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of natural disasters and climate change (2012/2095 (ini)) (a7-0349/2012);
in writing. i congratulate mr kelam on his report, which addresses one of the most important phenomena in european security, the issue of cybersecurity. the concept of cybersecurity is an inseparable link between the internal and external dimensions of security, whether we're talking about cyber espionage, cyber terrorism, or cyber crime. cyberattacks are global in nature, so effective defence must be global as well. the need for continuous and close cooperation and the avoidance of duplication between the eu institutions, the european union, nato and the main international actors, member states, civil and military defence forces, and the public and private sectors should be emphasised. the knowledge and capabilities that are built up in the private sector are needed to ensure effective protection, whether it's from cybersecurity companies, software developers, hardware manufacturers, online system operators. critical it infrastructures may become the main targets of cyberterrorism in the future. in order to protect them, there can be no further delay in developing a common european threat assessment system and in expanding common european practices in both preparedness, prevention, detection and response. international organised crime is moving with a furious vengeance into cyberspace, often using specialists trained in military or intelligence organisations. for example, a notable feature of russian and russian-style cybercrime is that the network is often run by former kgb officers and is fed with information that can be effectively used for blackmail or coercion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, first of all, i would like to thank mr celdeira and the staff of the court for the annual report. this is a great starting point for parliament to conduct discharge procedures in the coming months. secondly, let me say that according to a well-known hungarian proverb, the person who says that a glass is half full may be talking about the same thing as the person who says that a glass is half empty. i myself am one of those who think that this glass of the disciplined implementation of the union budget is half empty. it is not acceptable that the downward trend in the error rate has not simply stopped but that the overall error rate has increased for the second year running. my constituents would not be able to say yes to the fact that the proportion of eu funds being used regularly has deteriorated in recent years. they couldn't support this report. thirdly, let me say that it is unacceptable that the council representatives are not here in parliament when we are discussing this issue. for the past three years, the european council has had a permanent president. both the permanent president and his staff are constantly missing. the european council always has a rotating presidency, and the staff of the rotating presidency is often missing. if 62% of the errors detected in the area of cohesion policy could have been prevented by governments, then the council, representing governments, should be here in parliament. last but not least, i agree with those who say that the trend is more favourable in the use of cohesion resources. the under-utilisation rate of resources decreased from 7,7% in 2010 to 5,1%. i think this is a good message for the european council meeting that is just starting today, where the main question is whether one of the union's fundamental principles, the principle of solidarity, can be maintained in the seven-year budgetary period with regard to the preservation of cohesion funds.
overall, the union managed its resources better than in the previous year, with eur 129 billion. although the annual budget is decided jointly by the council and the parliament, the commission has a crucial role to play in ensuring that the money is used correctly, and there is still room for improvement in this area. importantly, what the 2011 report also showed is that while the direction is good, the error rate we're talking about is high. in fact, for r & d expenditure this is increasing but very significant, for agricultural and cohesion items, which account for 80% of expenditure, there is increasing inaccuracy in other areas and there are ineligible payments. the commission and the member states share responsibility for this, of course, but it points out that the problem is systemic. the commission's mechanisms are only partially effective and, unfortunately, these resources have increasingly failed to achieve their objectives or have not been used effectively. i agree with the commissioner, added value and simplicity. the challenge is to transform our system in the face of growing deficits and dwindling resources, and to make controls much more effective.
in writing. − the common commercial policy is one of the pillars of the european union's external relations. the eu's role in the context of globalisation has evolved considerably through its efforts to promote the harmonious development of world trade and to encourage fair and sustainable behaviour. the aim of the leichtfried report is to enable the european parliament, as the directly elected representative of the citizens of the union, to exercise its newly acquired powers with full effect and to exercise appropriate parliamentary scrutiny of the implementing authority, while allowing for the flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the recommendations and conclusions contained in it are sound and that the rapporteur has done a great job.
in writing. − i did not support the parliament's decision on the doha climate change conference because it does not take into account the interests of hungary and the other east-central european member states. i find it unacceptable that while the eu15 could not have met their kyoto commitments without the large-scale emission reductions of the new member states joining, they are now ignoring the legitimate demands of these countries to pass on their excess kyoto quota. without a compromise that is acceptable to all, there will be no common position, and this jeopardises the effective pursuit of the eu's interests in international climate negotiations.
in writing. − in today's vote, i did not support the parliament's resolution on the doha climate change conference, because it does not take into account the interests of hungary and the other east-central european member states. the eu's position on climate change is that it is not possible to achieve a common position on climate change without a common approach to the issue. i would like to point out that, at the initiative of my colleague mr erik bánki, five central and eastern european member states have issued a joint press statement in which they stress their commitment to the position of their countries at the doha climate negotiations. the communication, signed by representatives of the hungarian, bulgarian, slovak, czech and latvian people's parties, stresses that the cee member states should insist on being able to use the remaining surplus of quotas after 2012 due to their significant over-compliance with their emission reduction commitments under the kyoto protocol. this is particularly important because the revenue generated can be used to develop new, green and energy-efficient industries.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today on the report entitled 'enlargement: policies, criteria and the eu's strategic interests', which continues to highlight the importance of the copenhagen criteria. thanks to the amendments proposed by my colleague mr gálinga, the protection of national minorities as one of the copenhagen criteria continues to be given equal weight in the report with the other criteria. the current western balkans enlargement package gives a strong role to traditional national minorities, as these communities are present in significant numbers in the candidate countries. the representatives' motions can help the hungarians in vojvodina in connection with the accession of serbia, and the hungarians in the upper and transnistrian regions in the event that the commission asks for stronger enforcement of the law in this area from the member states. thanks to further amendments proposed by my colleague gál kinga, the report also incorporates the concept put forward during the hungarian presidency that mutual understanding and historic reconciliation are key to enabling the candidate countries to really embark on the european path. it is therefore important to educate and learn about each other's history, language and cultural heritage during and after the accession process. i voted in favour of the report as above.
in writing. − in his comprehensive report, arnaud danjean makes a convincing case for the union to become an independent political actor on the international stage. europe should have an autonomous defence strategy and an effective security and defence policy which allows for independent action to resolve conflicts, where necessary. but this requires real civilian and military capabilities. while the union considers the alliance with nato to be a priority and an indestructible one, it must also clearly define its strategic interests in line with changing threats and the military capabilities of its member states. there is a need to assess the military strengths and weaknesses of each member state. i would like to stress that it is important that the psc (permanent structured cooperation) does not become an 'elite club' of large and strong countries, excluding weaker countries and thus distorting cooperation towards an undesirable two-speed model. the solution, as i have already stressed in previous exchanges of views, is to provide the member states with weaker military capabilities with a role and a role that will integrate them into the overall common security and defence policy, based on their specific capabilities and skills. we must agree with the rapporteur that the revival of the csdp at institutional, operational and capability level is an unavoidable task for the european union.
in writing. − today, cybercrime is unprecedentedly global, and the fight against it requires a change of approach, a global approach. defence against cyberattacks can only be effective and efficient if it is based on a unified approach, close cooperation between the eu institutions, member states, nato, international actors, civil and military defence forces, and appropriate use of the specialised expertise accumulated in the private sector. i voted in favour of the report accordingly.
in writing. − the changes in the procedure for the election of the european parliament will have important consequences. moving the election date to may will give more time for a new parliament to convene well before the summer break, making its business less hurried. more significant is the idea that the candidates for the next president of the commission be named by each political family and, by that process, be elected by the citizens of europe. most striking is that as many members of the commission as possible be drawn from elected members of the european parliament. these changes will basically serve as an answer to the accusation that the commission is made up of unelected bureaucrats, who – on this argument – should not be exercising as much power as they do. in sum, what the changes should effect is to invest those commissioners who are elected as meps with a degree of accountability towards the voters. ideally, even though they will give up their mandates, these elected commissioners will maintain some contact with their electorates. this process will strengthen the legitimacy of the commission and should give it a greater element of autonomy with respect to council than it currently has.
mr president, since the 2009 protests which followed the last iranian presidential elections, the human rights situation in iran has steadily deteriorated. the growing numbers of political prisoners, the rising number of executions, unfair trials, the use of torture, and restrictions of fundamental liberties are just some examples of the increase in human rights violations. the recent death of sattar beheshti is a tragic reminder of the situation. this issue is sometimes obscured by tensions over the iranian nuclear power programme, which also needs to be firmly addressed. it is high time to reflect on the most effective ways to engage in a productive dialogue with the iranian authorities on the basis of the eu dual-track approach. we should keep in mind that the effect of wide-reaching sanctions can be counterproductive, as they result in increasing difficulties for ordinary citizens. therefore, we should make full use of new tools, such as the instrument for democracy and human rights, and swiftly assess its efficiency. finding an effective balance between dialogue and sanctions is crucial if we want to achieve tangible results.
mr president, while the first democratically elected libyan government has just been formed, we should not forget the fragility of the local situation and the many challenges that remain to be overcome. the terrible conditions and severe human rights abuses faced by migrants should be a priority among these. i am deeply preoccupied by the conditions faced by women and children, especially those who have arbitrarily been put into detention. we have received several reports of sexual and gender-based violence in those detention centres, where pregnant women, women with young children and unaccompanied children are being held alongside adults. their lack of recourse to adequate protection makes them vulnerable to all kinds of exploitation and violence. the situation in libya was widely discussed in the framework of the last acp–eu joint parliamentary assembly in may 2012, and i underlined this tragic situation at that time. i welcome the implementation of migration programmes by the commission and eeas and i urge you to do your utmost to put an end to this situation.
on december 10th, human rights day is celebrated worldwide. on this day, we remember the human rights of all seven billion people on earth, wherever they live, in whatever corner of the world. the fundamental rights, freedoms and dignity of every person must be protected, and we in parliament must do everything we can to ensure that this is the case. any act, any action that offends, degrades, endangers that is unacceptable. therefore, it is unacceptable and reprehensible to have a political message, for example, in the hungarian parliament, delivered by a better representative attacking the hungarian government and parliament, which clearly labels a group of people, whether they are part of the minority or the majority. on this world human rights day, let us all reflect on what we need to change in ourselves and what we can do in our immediate environment to make this world a better, more tolerant, more patient and safer place.
noblesse oblige, the nobility is obliged, the nobel peace prize is obliged. i ask the european institutions to do everything possible to ensure that no group of people can be stigmatised, discriminated against or, as in my country, called a national security risk, either in the institutions, in the eu or in national parliaments. the european union also received the nobel prize for its contribution to the stabilisation of the eastern european states. he deserved it. yet we see that although the institutional system of democracy has been established in our countries, the daily routine, the practice, is lacking. secret fear is in charge. exclusionary ideas, often wrapped in eu scepticism, are a threat. the parties representing democratic european values must act in unison to combat this phenomenon. this happened in budapest last sunday. let us do everything we can to strengthen the eu's values and to push back against those who promote ideas that violate human dignity.
twenty years on, the eu single market, which could serve the interests of some 500 million consumers today, is not doing so. i agree with the rapporteur that this market is still very fragmented and does not serve the purpose we want to achieve. it is particularly painful that the sme sector cannot take advantage of this market. although it is present on export markets, it believes that it is competing on an unequal basis with the big companies. i have to tell you, online commerce is growing very fast, but there are still opportunities. there are very big benefits to be had, like reducing it costs. we could talk about a 10 to 20% cost reduction. this is just one example of the benefits that could come. there's a lot to do. i agree with my colleagues that we should not be talking about what we have to do, but what we have to do, and i would recommend that you consider what the president said. i will be voting in favour of this report tomorrow.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the creation of a digital single market is beneficial for both consumers and businesses. consumers would be able to choose from a wider range of products and thus benefit from lower prices as a result of increased competition. for companies, the same rules and conditions make it easier to operate on the markets of the member states. the digital single market report takes into account the tasks needed to complete the single market by 2015. the union digital market remains fragmented due to the lack of common standards and e-signature and e-invoicing are not yet widespread across europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the development of a pan-european business model in the areas of vat, postal services and intellectual property rights imposes particularly high costs on these undertakings. hungary is lagging behind in this respect, both in terms of innovation capacity of smes and in terms of training. the right innovation support, such as the activities of the innovation centre in central hungary, and the right preparation of start-up entrepreneurs can help in this regard. the european connectivity facility can accelerate the creation of the digital single market by developing infrastructure and services based on it and will also provide efficient access to broadband internet to europe's most backward regions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. it is a very important problem indeed, and i think we should proceed with due care. the prudent use of antibiotics is of vital importance not only in veterinary medicine but also in human medicine. i am a member of the board of the hungarian branch of the international child rescue service, and i see the studies that our medical team is conducting in transylvania, in the territory of romania, where these drugs are practically applied to the neck and neck of abandoned small farms, of families living in extreme poverty, with side effects that are almost impossible to eliminate in these social groups. so it would be very important, not only to get older and with the right research to be able to extract the right active ingredients, but to prescribe it for only those diseases that it actually does have a beneficial effect on, and to account for these serious side effects, because we can do a lot of harm to our fellow human beings.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague rapkay on his report, which i think has done an excellent job. it was a very difficult task, as the european union has been trying unsuccessfully since 2000 to adopt a unified european patent system that operates in parallel with national patents granted by the national patent offices of the member states and european patents granted by the european patent office under the european patent convention. i believe that the present proposal is the most significant and concrete step towards the implementation of this long overdue measure, as it provides a balanced and feasible solution. i am proud to say that my country, hungary, has not only made a significant contribution to the successful conclusion of the decades-long european patent dispute during its eu presidency in the first half of 2011, but will also play an important role in the functioning of the european patent system, as the centre for the training of patent judges will be established in budapest. the single european patent system reduces to a fraction of what it was before the costs necessary to create european protection for a patent. i am also confident that the creation of a truly unitary patent protection will result in a much-needed simplification of the current system. this will enable users in europe to reduce their administrative burden and patent costs by up to 80%, improving the functioning and protection of the free movement of goods in the internal market and stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
in writing. the need for the creation of an eu patent is hardly in dispute, as the substantial simplification and lowering of the cost of the patent procedure will help to promote creative but capital-poor inventors, thus bringing to light otherwise dormant intellectual property. new eu patents can improve europe's competitiveness, unless they are also given away free to competing far eastern industries. it is important that the revenues from patent fees should not be used for all-consuming bureaucracy but should provide a credit line of at least 80% of the revenues to be used interest-free for the inventors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises exploiting the inventions. the distribution of fee revenue should not be based on the size of the market, but on the level of creativity, i.e. the annual average of the proportion of patents that are viable in a given country.
in writing. after 40 years of negotiations, a final agreement on the european patent may finally be reached today in parliament. the overwhelming majority of the reforms to the unitary patent system, developed under the hungarian presidency of the eu, include the creation of unitary patent protection, the associated language translation regime and an international agreement to standardise patent litigation. as part of the new patent institution system, a centre for the training of patent judges will be established in budapest. under the current system, patents must be registered in each member state through the european patent office in order to obtain eu patent protection. the vast cost difference is largely due to translation costs. under the rules in force, applicants for patent protection must have their patent translated into the languages of all the countries where they wish to obtain protection. because of translation and other costs, it can cost up to ten times as much as in the united states. this system will be replaced by the new system under which the new unitary patent will be valid in all participating member states and can be obtained by a single application. this will make the current fragmented patent system simpler and cheaper, and will greatly contribute to the european union's global competitiveness.
in writing. − in times of economic crisis, it is important to expect that eu regulation imposes as little unnecessary burden as possible on indebted municipalities. i therefore vote in favour of the eu labelling provisions for office equipment not being binding on local authorities, but extending the scope of the programme to central government bodies in line with the recently adopted energy efficiency directive.
in writing. − the digital revolution of recent years has transformed the way businesses operate. some studies have shown that the internet accounts for 20 percent and 25 percent of economic growth and job creation in some g8 countries. for every job lost offline in the world, there are 2.6 new jobs in the online sector. companies that take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the internet create more than twice as many jobs as those that do not. however, in the european union, this culture has not developed as much, due in particular to the lack of trust in the digital single market, and the fact that across europe, businesses with cross-border activities face different regulatory regimes (tariffs, postal services, intellectual property rights, etc.) which make it very costly to conduct pan-european transactions. for these reasons, it is understandable why some webshops only take delivery to certain countries, which account for 61% of all online transaction failures. online shoppers can choose from twice as many products as they do in the traditional shopping environment, and up to 16 times more products in the eu. 99% of european businesses, and therefore 85% of jobs, are smes. smes that are technology-intensive are twice as likely to achieve growth, job creation and exports as their peers. there is a need for greater use of technology in all sectors, in all companies. this year, as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market, we need to give our economy the momentum needed to create a digital single market. the single market would be a huge opportunity for entrepreneurs if it were to be extended by a digital single market.
in writing. − europe is moving rapidly from the industrial age to a global, networked, knowledge and services-based economy. this will require inevitable changes not only in the economy but also in institutions and systems designed for other eras. online commerce is growing fast, but there are other opportunities here. for example, new innovative services can reduce it costs for businesses by 10-20%. this is just one example of the benefits that can be gained from the creation of a single market in the digital economy and the removal of barriers to cross-border e-commerce. so i think there's a lot of work to be done in this area. in his report, our spanish colleague responded very well to the problems of the functioning of the digital single market, pointing out the difficulties that european citizens and businesses considered most pressing, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - 99% of european enterprises, i.e. 85% of jobs (two thirds of private sector jobs) are provided by smes. the commission estimates that this amounts to 23 million smes, thus constituting the backbone of the union economy. however, unfortunately, despite the fact that the eu remains a key destination for foreign direct investment, eurostat data show that the total eu27 fdi outflows decreased by 30% in 2008, by a further 28% in 2009 and by a further 62% in 2010. furthermore, 25% of smes operate beyond the borders of their home member state and 13% are present on markets outside the eu. smes face a wide range of challenges when expanding into markets outside their own country, including a weaker entrepreneurial spirit, lack of funding and information, a wide range of bureaucracies, strict rules and compliance with the energy and resource efficient economy, etc. it is well known that smes have been hit hardest by the financial and economic crisis, with almost a third of smes applying for bank loans being consistently rejected or receiving loans well below the amount requested over the past two years. it is for these reasons that the new programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) proposed by the commission is welcome, providing enterprises and smes with a loan guarantee facility offering guarantees for credit financing through loans, subordinated and dividend-bearing loans or leases to mitigate the particular difficulties faced by smes in accessing financing for growth, allowing the securitisation of their debt financing portfolios to mobilise additional resources to finance sme debt, and will operate with a budget of eur 2,5 billion for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises form the backbone of economies all over the world. they are particularly important in terms of employment, technological innovation and gross value added, and their share is higher than that of the large companies in the spotlight. for this reason, financing smes is a very topical, exciting and wide-ranging issue. in my view, hungary can remain on the path of sustainable economic growth if it relies fundamentally on exports. economic policies driven by domestic demand are accompanied by only a temporary recovery, causing serious imbalances. the main beneficiaries of export growth are large companies. smes can only benefit from the growth of exports if they are better integrated into the supply chain. i think there is still a lot to be done in this area. in his report, mr zahradil responds very well to the problems of sme financing, highlighting the difficulties that european businesses find most challenging. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i too believe that it is very important to finally get out of the 'dead-end' of technical standards and thus enjoy the benefits of interoperability, data portability and reversibility. the eu intends to support eu-wide certification schemes for the identification of trusted cloud service providers. the commission will also consider developing secure and fair service terms for cloud computing contracts. the commission wants to set up a european cloud partnership with member states and industry to tap into the purchasing power of the public sector. this sector accounts for 20% of total it spending and is already able to influence the european cloud market to increase the competitiveness of european cloud providers while opening up the way to cheaper and better quality egovernment services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the union granting macro-financial assistance to georgia of up to eur 46 million. the international community, including the european union, has repeatedly provided and planned financial assistance to the country. in the current economic circumstances, georgia, which is seeking a way out of the crisis, needs the support of the european union. this assistance is specifically granted by the union at the request of georgia, given the difficult economic situation of the country. the eu's policy towards georgia must maintain momentum within the european neighbourhood policy, as well as georgia's commitment to the euro-atlantic partnership. it is in the union's essential interest to promote public confidence in the west and to act proactively in the south caucasus region in strengthening democracy. in the case of macro-financial assistance, the commission must monitor whether the expenditure is in line with the objectives pursued.
in writing. − i support the single european patent because it helps smes in particular to realise and exploit their inventions. the new rules will also enable these companies to become more competitive at international level. unitary patent protection may be granted for all or part of the territory of the participating member states. the report emphasises that this reduces costs and takes into account the special situation of the companies. in addition, the fees will reflect the size of the market and will be similar to the average national renewal fee for european patents that come into force when they are first granted. each participating member state shall cover a certain proportion of the reduced costs incurred in the course of the patent protection tasks. overall, they will reduce administrative and translation burdens, patent costs and improve the free movement and protection of goods in the internal market, thereby also supporting european innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. − after 40 years of negotiations, the european parliament today approved the european patent agreement. the decision will make the currently fragmented european patent system cheaper and simpler and will significantly reduce the costs of patent litigation for businesses. this is a great help for smes, as it enables them to become more competitive internationally. for these reasons, i also voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european patent agreement, which had been awaited for decades, was concluded, the decisive part of which was carried out by the hungarian presidency, putting an end to the disputes over the language and patent adjudication system. the new package of legislation is aimed at abolishing the current fragmented patent system. the single system will also significantly reduce the costs of patent litigation for businesses.
in writing. − i support the amendments concerning the applicable translation rules, because i believe they make the original text clearer. i am in favour of the introduction of a unitary patent protection in europe, because it will greatly help small and medium-sized enterprises to protect their inventions. clarifying the compensation for translation costs and setting a ceiling also helps to prevent abuses that may be several times the market price. the costs of translating the patent have been borne by the applicant. the amendments clearly highlighted the importance of publishing a supplementary english translation voluntarily provided by the notifier after the end of the transition period. high-quality machine translations of european patent applications and european patent descriptions into all the official languages of the union should be made available free of charge on the internet, in order to ensure that they are accessible in all the official languages of the union and thus avoid patent infringement. by emphasizing this, it would limit the intruder's ability to argue that he acted in good faith. machine translations would also allow the english language to advance in the patent field in international trade relations. however, it also points out that in certain situations machine translation is not sufficient and that it is necessary to involve representatives of the national patent offices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr baldassare's report, because i fully agree with the proposals outlined and with the need for specific measures to facilitate smes' access to the european patent market and the innovation area. in this respect, i am convinced that the legal measures on unitary patent protection provide an excellent opportunity to respond to the requests made by smes, in particular with regard to costs and legal assistance.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the creation of a unitary patent system, because under the new system it will be cheaper and easier to obtain an eu patent, which is very much in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises. the future unitary patent will be valid in all participating member states and will be available on the basis of a single application. the current system for language use in the european patent office is modelled on the one in which english, french and german are the working languages, thus significantly reducing the cost of obtaining patent protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the patent litigation justice system, as it will significantly reduce the costs of patent litigation for businesses through a unified patent litigation system. i support the creation of a unified patent court to hear cases relating to european patents with unitary legal effect. i consider it essential that national constitutional and parliamentary procedures be consistent. the new system would balance the progress and development of the internal market, reduce costs and simplify the system. to operate more efficiently, it is important that a unified judiciary operates within the european union. the court of justice, as guardian of the law, would ensure the primacy of eu law and the unity of the legal order. i agree that this should be done in a decentralised system, with local units but with the same procedural rules at all levels. i consider it important that the language of procedure in regional offices should be the official language of the contracting member state, thereby also facilitating communication. the qualifications of patent judges should ensure that they have appropriate expertise and specialised knowledge. it should be noted in particular that as part of the new patent institutional system, a centre for the training of patent judges will be established in budapest.
in writing. - 99% of european businesses, i.e. 85% of jobs, are smes. the commission estimates that this amounts to 23 million smes, thus constituting the backbone of the union economy. however, smes face a number of problems which, in addition to a complex system of bureaucracy, also constitute a barrier to the patent system, entailing significant costs. an efficient european patent system could make a major contribution to growth through innovation. the current european patent system consists of national patents granted by the industrial property offices of the member states or european patents granted by the european patent office (epo). when a patent is granted, the european patent shall divide it into a number of national patents subject to national legislation. this costly system involves extensive and risky multi-jurisdictional litigation, often resulting in conflicting judgments. the proposals for unitary patent protection and the language regime, currently before the parliament and the council in the legislative process, aim to end the current fragmented patent system. the creation of a unified patent court and a unified patent court would ensure that contracting member states are liable for damages resulting from a breach of union law by a court and would be in line with the judicial system of the union, since contracting member states can only be member states of the union, and the quality and efficiency of proceedings would be maximised and the costs of litigation would be significantly reduced. in light of this, we would also create legal certainty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that after decades of unsuccessful attempts, a genuine, single and internationally competitive patent market can finally be achieved. in my view, a unified and functioning patent court will create legal certainty through a uniform interpretation of the applicable legislation. this is particularly important for smes, as the court system to be established will be able to make more efficient but high-quality decisions through this measure. in addition, the qualification of the judges is also essential for the functioning of the patent adjudication system. in addition to patent law, judges should have a basic knowledge of antitrust law. this will help the judges to detect any attempt by the parties to abuse the patents, thereby abusing their market dominance to the detriment of their competitors.
in writing. − the unified patent court will have exclusive jurisdiction in proceedings relating to the validity or infringement of the unified european patents. this will avoid the risk of multiple litigation cases concerning the same patent in different member states or of different court decisions in the same dispute in different member states. the central body of the court of first instance of the unified patent court will have its seat in paris, with two additional specialised divisions in london and munich. the training centre for patent judges will be located in budapest, which is a significant achievement for hungary.
in writing. − population ageing is not just a european problem, it is a global one. in europe, the number of people aged 65 and over is over 87 million, representing 17.4% of the european population, which is expected to double by 2060. the definition of old age varies from country to country and from nation to nation, but what is certain is that over a certain age, they face negative stereotypes and prejudices about the elderly, which sooner or later lead to their exclusion from society. furthermore, women have a higher life expectancy at birth than men (82.4 years for women and 76.4 years for men), so that most women remain single into old age. according to eurobarometer surveys, the proportion of women who are left alone as a result of divorce, separation or widowhood is very high (75.8%) in those over 65. loneliness, segregation and the causes of lost (perhaps elevated) status, as well as hormonal changes due to menopause and other emerging and potentially permanent harmful diseases (e.g. breast cancer, cervical cancer, etc.) are causes and diseases linked to women's age that should not be ignored, and should be prevented and addressed at the highest levels of the european union institutions. this is also due to the fact that women are paid less than men during their working lives (an average wage gap of 17.5%) and that, just before or after retirement, far fewer women find a job or are able to keep their old job than men. this is almost twice as high among men as among women. the inevitable consequence of this is that women face greater financial hardship in later life. prevention and information are essential. in addition to screening programmes, easier access to health services and reducing waiting lists, it is important to consider the return of women to society or their retention after retirement, for example through voluntary work, various cultural events, etc.
in writing. − timely and adequate diagnosis, quality treatment and access to quality medical devices are essential in preventing the further health deterioration of elderly women and in many cases – such as hearing impairment, eye disorders and other functional limitations – may partially restore the healthy functioning of affected organs. special attention should be paid to the gender aspects of fighting dementia, since partly due to their higher life expectancy, there are many more women than men living with the disease. depression and anxiety, the two most common and most serious types of mental disorder also affect women to a greater extent than men and the who estimates that their incidence in europe ranges between 2% and 15% in the over-65 age group. the commission and member states should therefore fully recognise the gender dimension in health as an essential part of eu health policies and national health policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the microbial challenge because it highlights a very important public health problem. the irresponsible use of antibiotics has now left us virtually defenseless against a host of pathogens, as evidenced by the increasing number of deaths in europe that can be traced back to this cause. the european commission and the member states should therefore act as soon as possible to put the recently adopted action plans into practice.
for years, our parliament has been whipping the reduction of solidarity. i still agree that we must ensure the financial foundations for the union's operation on the basis of solidarity, but we cannot be blind to the financial difficulties of the member states. the european community has a tradition of being willing to compromise, of being able to reach an agreement, and of being equal to solidarity. we can't forget that either. the current fragile agreement could be jeopardised if even one budgetary amendment is adopted by the plenary tomorrow. the council has already adopted a number of amendments to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 and the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the draft budget for 2013. the agricultural and cohesion resources of the member states and hungary in this year's and next year's budgets would also be at risk. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, is therefore the only rational decision. it also votes in favour of the agreement in plenary and rejects any budgetary amendments that would jeopardise it.
mr. chairman, members of the house. the european union budget has an incentive effect to stimulate the economies of the member states, and therefore budgetary cuts reduce the impact of the crisis response. the european union needs investment, industrial policy, support for smes and the integration of the experience of young people. if we are promoting more europe and then not allocating funds to it, that is called a breach of the rules, but not paying the bills is not a saving, not a simple cut in the budget, it is a breach of the law. i very much hope that in 2013 my country will also receive the structural, cohesion funds that we were unable to achieve in 2012. at the same time, we would support the fidesz representatives and express our reservations if the missing amount were to be found not in the erasmus programme or the r&d programmes but in the hungarian cohesion funds. we shall therefore vote on the budget, but we shall stick to the declaration which the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament and the president of the council are all planning to sign. you'll have to sign a bill of exchange, agreeing to pay for the work you've done. we'll stick to that.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! in closing, i would like to remind you of the warning that anne jensen gave. the figures in question did not seem to be significant in percentage terms, but the fact that the question was the credibility of the budgetary authority justified the intensity of the debate. in the light of the fact that last year both parties and the commission signed an agreement that the missing funds will be provided without any special debate if the member states call them from cohesion policy. this one's missing. the six-monthly amending budget should not have been discussed for a single minute if the budgetary authority had kept its original promise. so, just as we need promises to look ahead, these promises are now - if i may say so - overvalued by the fact that the top leaders of the european union are signing these promises, and we hope that we will need additional money next year. in the light of the promises made, we do not need to continue with unnecessary debates, because i am quite sure that, as parliament predicted last year, there will be little money in the appropriate budget, so the current forecasts will be fulfilled and additional resources will have to be mobilised to make the union function. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of regulation (eu) no 1316/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 april 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1605/2002 (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
the rapporteur of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the problem presented in my colleague zasada's report is twofold. on the one hand, the ground handling service is not sufficiently efficient and on the other hand, its quality does not keep pace with the growing demand. as the draftsman of the imco opinion, i therefore proposed the introduction of standards which could improve the quality of services and promote the more efficient operation of airports. although the final tran proposal represents a significant step forward compared to the current legislative framework, i believe that there are still substantial issues that need further discussion. in agreement with the imco committee, i believe that full market opening is not necessary at this stage, as it would only increase the pressure on ground handling companies, which is already considerable. we therefore proposed, commissioner, that for airports whose annual traffic has reached 5 million passengers or 100 000 tonnes of freight in the previous three years, the european commission should assess whether it is really justified to increase the number of groundhandling operators to three and, on that basis, make a recommendation to the national supervisory authority, which will decide as an independent regulator whether european, national, regional or other considerations make it necessary to increase the number of operators. unfortunately, this proposal was not included in this report at all, so it was not sufficiently considered. in my view, it may also lead to a fall in wage levels, a deterioration in employment security and training opportunities for workers, and an increase in part-time and temporary employment. unfortunately, i cannot support this report in its present form and will therefore be voting in favour of it on wednesday.
i thank the president for his great activity on this subject, but i respectfully ask the president not to give the congressman any more yellow cards. this activity should have taken place in committee and not here in plenary, because it does not advance the cause with its presentation.
mr van dalen, yes, i think you are right but anyhow it is up to the president to accept or not accept new blue cards. i now move to jacqueline foster for the opinion of the ecr group.
mr. chairman, members of the house of representatives, there were many questions before me. i would like to speak about the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at airports in the union. i consider it extremely important that this issue should be regulated again, since the last time this regulation was adopted was in 2002. and over the past 10 years, numerous scientific sources have proven that noise pollution is a significant and growing environmental hazard today. a recent study by the joint research centre of the who and the european commission shows that traffic noise is taking 1 million healthy life years from european citizens at eu level. that's an incredibly large number. moreover, people with hearing loss are not the ones who have been affected by hearing loss through no fault of their own, since they did not lose their hearing at a rock concert as teenagers. i think that the current regulations that tighten up these provisions might be able to achieve something. the who guidelines for noise exposure to health should not be ignored, which set the noise exposure limit at 40 decibels. nevertheless, 3 million european citizens still live in the vicinity of airports - there are about 70 in europe - where they are exposed to night noise levels of more than 50 decibels. i therefore think that the review should take place and that this matter should be regulated again as soon as possible in a stricter way than it is now.
mr president, it is clear that the challenges faced by the european airports in an increasingly growing and competitive market need to be addressed. however, when it comes to the proposal on groundhandling services i can only agree with the position taken by the committee on transport, and defended by the s&d group both in the transport and employment committees, and reject this proposal. this proposal does not contain enough safeguards when it comes to workers’ rights, and past experience has sadly demonstrated how often similar liberalisation processes lead to wage dumping. the competitiveness of european airports and air companies should not be achieved at the expense of social protection. this aspect was highlighted in the commission’s communication on airport policy in the eu. we have long asked for improved social dialogue at eu level. i regret that it was not more in evidence in the case of this proposal. therefore i would like to ask you, mr commissioner, what you intend to do.... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. whatever the fate of the earth service report, i thank my colleagues for their support of my amendments. i was always guided by the need to place particular emphasis on the level of minimum requirements in order to further open up the market in a balanced way and to increase the efficiency of services. i would particularly stress the importance of vocational training, which should cover the improvement of ground handling and information conditions for disabled people and the special conditions for the transport of wheelchairs and other medical aids. training adapted to the needs of people with disabilities can greatly improve the quality of services provided on the ground. we must not allow the failure of ground staff to prepare for the event to result in disabled passengers being able to get off the plane within hours when they are visiting the european parliament at my invitation. the rules should therefore be consistent with the regulation of 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility travelling by air. these objectives should not be ignored in the future.
the current debate also shows that the european union's crisis management technique is very wide-ranging. growth requires resources, but they are scarce. each member state is working on its own and in cooperation with the other member states. it's a subject full of such doubts. what is certain is that when the ftt was introduced, the proposal was clearly not developed. this is particularly true for redistribution to member states. there was more question mark than answer. it is no coincidence that only 11 member states have since decided to do so in enhanced cooperation. but other member states also feel that this social justice tax has a place in the tax system. they just chose a different approach. the current draft report, which seeks to give the ftt a green light in enhanced cooperation, is good and should be supported, but we should not forget the individual solutions of the member states either, because we can perhaps hope for greater consensus on this issue in the future.
it is regrettable that the so-called transaction tax introduced by the hungarian government this year and further tightened from 2013 is completely contrary to the spirit of the european transaction tax. the orbán government's check tax does not penalise speculative banking transactions, but primarily the movements of money by private individuals and companies. hungarian workers pay taxes because they get paid, employers pay taxes because they pay the public debt, and the population pays taxes to cover the costs of the recession. in addition to the average salary, the transaction fee costs huf 10 000 per year for all hungarian citizens. instead of the orbán government's check tax, hungary should also apply the european transaction tax, which would tax speculative banking transactions in a fair way instead of the population and medium-sized enterprises.
in general, i am not in favour of introducing new animal welfare rules because they undermine the international competitiveness of farmers, since competitors do not have to apply them and in many cases they also lead to higher co2 emissions. in general, i believe that new animal welfare rules should only be introduced on a voluntary basis. let the consumer and the farmer decide the rules by which they produce and buy. the introduction of the 8-hour shipping limit is exceptional, and i support it because it not only promotes animal welfare, but also helps the european union's economy, and because transporting processed products emits less co2 than transporting them, it is also good for the climate. the eight-hour transport restriction will prevent live animals from being transported to countries outside the eu where they are often slaughtered in appalling conditions. and then, here in the european union, these poor animals will end up in better conditions. that's why it's very important that we don't allow any loopholes in the system, that we don't allow any loopholes in the eight-hour shipping limit. the shorter transportation will inevitably lead to the creation of more local slaughterhouses and thus more jobs in europe and especially more jobs in rural areas. for these reasons, i support the introduction of an eight-hour shipping limit.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, the ability of disadvantaged groups to exercise their full range of fundamental rights is the litmus test of our union’s founding principles. direct or indirect exclusion based on affiliation with two or more vulnerable groups is especially hard to remedy, and it therefore deserves a targeted approach and tailor-made programmes. this is the case with elderly women below the poverty line, female and under-age victims of crime, and minority women, in particular roma women. therefore, i think it is extremely important that all the proposals on the table today take account of the social stigma and devote a whole section to the social exclusion of the poorest. i think that, instead of looking at the ideological and political games that are going on around this report, we must look at the member states and what their actions are. therefore, the measures presented in their integration plans are the most important. this is our objective with this report and with all the proposals on the table. i think it is extremely important that the commission plays a very important role in the next half year in looking at strategies to integrate the poorest 40 million, half of whom are women.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, first of all, let me give my sincere thanks to ms beňová and her advisers, who have worked very hard on this report and have done everything possible to make it a success. the text addresses very well a number of important issues where the european union and the member states have a role to play in order to improve protection. i am particularly pleased that the problems of national minorities and the responses to them have been given due weight in the text, as have the rights of children. as a result of the joint consultations, although many elements unacceptable to the epp were removed from the text, many phrases and requirements remained which were in conflict with the values represented by the epp and concerned areas which were specifically within the competence of the member states on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. these issues challenge the traditions, values and constitutional arrangements of each country, the respect for which should be based on mutual respect as a fundamental human right. i would like to emphasize that this does not mean that there are two different kinds of fundamental rights in the union, the same rights that we, the people's party, are fighting for, but in many cases we do not consider it fortunate to use the protection of fundamental rights as a tool to hide behind a political struggle. as the epp has always stood for the protection of fundamental rights, its values are also the core values of the union to which it adheres. this time, it saw no other way of expressing its concern than by submitting an alternative draft decision which sought to address all the relevant issues in the field of the protection of fundamental rights. the court of justice has also held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the application of the principle of proportionality to the situation of a person who is not a party to the proceedings.
blue-card answer. – i praised ms flašíková beňová because i know how much she worked on this report, but that does not mean that it is not full of issues which go against the values which the epp group shares. therefore, the epp group will not be able to support this report, but it does support fundamental rights issues. accordingly, the epp group presented an alternative report which addresses all those issues of fundamental rights which are relevant and important issues nowadays in the european union.
in writing. it is a coincidence that the european parliament is adopting the report on the situation of human rights in europe in the same week that its president, together with the heads of two other eu institutions, is receiving the nobel peace prize in oslo. the nobel prize is a reminder that our commitment to peace, security, social cohesion, and the guarantee of human rights must not be diminished. it is our shared responsibility to fight every day for the rights of workers, women, children, minorities, the disabled, the homeless, immigrants... in this report, we voice our concerns and articulate what we need to do to continue to be worthy of recognition in the future. in the face of the rise of incrimination, exclusion, incitement to hatred, nationalism and national radicalism, we in europe must stand up for the fundamental rights of all our fellow citizens. how can the eu expect its partners to uphold the rule of law, democracy and freedoms if it does not set an example? i regret to inform you that our colleagues in the people's party have backed down from the joint agreement at the last moment. in this parliament, laws and resolutions are shaped by thorough, sometimes lengthy deliberations, with the intention of bringing them to fruition with the greatest possible support. fortunately, national legislation in the eu is an exception, and it does not work that way. in this parliament, we seek consensus. let us set an example in this too. other
in writing. – the ability of disadvantaged groups to exercise the full range of their fundamental rights is the litmus test of our union's founding principles. direct or indirect exclusion based on affiliation with two or more vulnerable groups is especially hard to remedy, and it deserves a targeted approach and tailor-made programmes. such is the case with elderly women below the poverty line, female and underage victims of crime, and minority women – in particular roma women, the majority of whom face deep poverty, joblessness and low education, sealing the vicious circle of deprivation with a multitude of severe social stigmas. i would therefore like to welcome the fact that the report devotes a whole section to the social inclusion of roma. we must call on member states to implement the measures presented in their national roma integration strategies and to allocate sufficient budgetary resources to realise the related objectives. i am looking forward to the commission's upcoming evaluation of the first year of implementation of these action plans, in particular its assessment regarding the financial feasibility and sustainability of these strategies and the data regarding the progress achieved in each member state.
in writing. to preserve the eu's credibility in the eyes of its citizens, the community must take effective action against human rights violations in the member states and the erosion of democratic values. this is what the european citizens expect from us, and this is unfortunately indicated by the increasingly anti-democratic processes in the individual member states, which have been acknowledged by the leaders of the european commission. european citizens expect us to make member states respect the fundamental democratic rights on which the eu is founded. it is unfortunate that the need for this first arose in my own country, hungary, in connection with the anti-democratic actions of the orbán government. when a government with two-thirds of the power in a member state controls the media, deprives citizens of their fundamental rights, legislates retroactively, makes students laugh and restricts the right to vote, as in hungary, european action is needed. the legal scoreboard for the european semester is indeed needed. it is indeed necessary to adopt the initiative calling on the european commission to draw up an annual report on the situation of the rights and fundamental values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. when neo-nazi elements are gathering in several member states, as in hungary, we must put more emphasis on the protection of minorities' rights through european instruments. when the principle of collective responsibility is reinforced in a member state after accession to the eu, it is necessary for the eu to respect the rights of persons belonging to national minorities in order to ratify the council of europe's european charter for regional or minority languages.
i should like to say a few words about the van rompuy report, which my colleague referred to with the vague indication before. indeed, this report takes us into an idealistic world, one that seems to be perfect. here, member states have already put their budgets in order, put their debt on a downward path, comply with the required capital requirements and even restore the wrong, harmful debt relationship between banks and individuals, and there is no further step to be taken than to establish a shock-absorbing relationship that will protect the euro area member states from a typical future economic shock. in fact, this material goes further in its vision, that in the second integrated budgetary framework of emu, in the case of countries using the single currency, in cases where structural reforms are being carried out, these states would be supported by temporary financial incentives, recognizing their sacrifices, recognizing that this transformation entails a loss of wages, living standards, popularity and even heavy expenditure, so that these obligations would later be regulated even in contracts. i also read that the instruments for competitiveness and convergence could easily be replaced by a separate budget for the euro area in the future, and then this material goes on to say that, of course, all this requires resources, new resources, a treasury. i ask you, what? i ask whether the author of this report takes these visions seriously or whether we finally think that we need to complete our previous steps and move forward together on this path instead of just ideas.
mr. vice president, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. a double wall is being built around the euro area, threatening the unity of the european union and the single market itself. one wall is being built by the countries that use the euro: the rules for the banking union, the single european banking supervision, the bank rescue fund are tailored to the members of the euro area. the other countries, including my own, have only one choice: to join or not. it is important, but not sufficient, that the representatives of the states which do not yet use the single currency should be represented in a meaningful way in the single banking supervision. moreover, it is essential that distressed banks in non-euro area member states can also receive capital injections if necessary, as without them they would be at a competitive disadvantage. at the same time, another wall is being built for those countries that are not yet using the euro, countries that are not doing everything in their economic policies, including hungary, to join the eurozone as soon as possible.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in hungary, the government enters into strategic cooperation agreements with groups of companies that contribute significantly to the performance of the domestic economy in order to keep them in hungary in the long term. these agreements contribute to increasing the competitiveness of hungary and the performance of the hungarian economy. mutual trust will improve the investment environment, create new jobs, expand domestic r&d activity and open up a broad supplier base for hungarian smes. the first cooperation agreement was signed by the prime minister of hungary on 20 july 2012. since then, the hungarian government has signed agreements with half a dozen other large companies, and in december it will sign similar agreements with two more multinational companies. these agreements will result in tens of billions of forints of investment in hungary in the near future and thousands of new jobs. i think this is a great example for the whole of europe of how we can keep big companies and even encourage them to invest more.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! one of the greatest challenges facing europe today is to reduce its divisions. the aim of economic and monetary union is to coordinate the different systems of the 27 member states. however, there are significant risks involved in its construction, and the creation of unity is critical for the future of europe. consistency is also the number one priority for each sector and each institution. to make sure that our house will stand firm in the face of a storm or an earthquake, we need stronger foundations, reliable retaining walls, and a good roof. my dear colleagues, let us keep this in mind in our economy. economic and monetary union can protect our economy in times of crisis and keep europe at the forefront of global competition if it is built on the same principles and is open to all member states. our economies are different, and a unified and strong framework is essential. we need to take serious steps to carry out our long-term vision, to implement the various stages of the gmu. european values, the single internal market are europe's main strengths, which we can use effectively and coordinate our financial processes to implement our policies. the door should remain open, member states should make clear their intention to participate and we, as policy-makers, should act swiftly and decisively. but let us not forget that the smallest unit in the economy is the citizen, the interests of 500 million europeans, and let us also take into account social considerations.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today on the 6th supplementary budget for 2012, which includes an additional €6 billion for the erasmus programme, the r & d area and cohesion policy for 2012. i consider the continuation of these programmes to be of the utmost importance and have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary session ended a long process today by voting on the eu budget for 2013. this eliminates the risk that next month only 1/12th of this year's budget can be paid. this will allow hungary to start paying out the agricultural and cohesion funds from next year's budget in time.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary session ended a long process today by voting on the eu budget for 2013. this eliminates the risk that next month only 1/12th of this year's budget can be paid. this will allow hungary to start paying out the agricultural and cohesion funds from next year's budget in time. the hungarian people's party delegation, together with the european people's party, in representing the national interests of our country, made the only responsible decision, that is, voting in the plenary session on the budget and rejecting the budget amendment proposals that threatened it.
in writing. − the ground handling industry has high hopes for the european commission's proposal, hoping that it will increase the efficiency and overall quality of services through a further balanced opening of the market. while the proposal represents a significant step forward compared to the existing legislative framework, there are still substantial issues that need further discussion. i agree with many of my colleagues and with the market players that there is no possibility of opening the market at the moment, as this would further increase the pressure on the ground handling companies. this would also lead to a decline in wage levels, worsening of job security and training opportunities for workers, and an increase in part-time and temporary employment. i cannot support the report in its current form and therefore voted to refer it back to the committee responsible.
in writing. − the proposal aims to improve the efficiency, flexibility and competitiveness of the european groundhandling market. the commission therefore concludes that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is compatible with the internal market. the proposal would provide airlines with free access to the market for self-service and for third-party services at airports with an annual passenger traffic of more than 5 million. the subject of the proposal is of great importance, as the commission estimates that the revenue generated by groundhandling is around eur 50 billion worldwide and it is estimated that it employs at least 60 000 people in europe. however, it is important to bear in mind that full market liberalisation has a number of risks and therefore requires special attention. the union market for ground handling services should be opened up in a strong and balanced manner in order to avoid that liberalisation causes instability in the system, as such a negative outcome could lead to loss of services and downsizing of airport ground handling services and, in the long term, to the creation of oligopolies among operators.
in writing. − due to the rapid growth of air traffic and capacity constraints, the priority has been re-established and the importance of improving the quality of airport services, including ground handling, has increased. efficient ground handling is of paramount importance for passengers, airports and airlines and is essential for the proper performance of the air transport system. as i indicated in the plenary debate on tuesday, i see the problem identified in the report by artur zasada, a polish mep, as twofold: on the one hand, ground services are not sufficiently efficient due to barriers to entry and expansion, and on the other hand, the quality of ground services is not keeping pace with changing needs in terms of reliability, flexibility, protection, security and environmental protection in general. although the final tran proposal represents a significant step forward compared to the current legislative framework, i believe that there are still substantial issues that need further discussion. in agreement with the market players, i believe that full market opening is not possible at present, as it would further increase the pressure on the ground handling companies. unfortunately, for this reason, i could not support the report in its present form, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − efficient ground handling is of paramount importance to passengers, airports and airlines. the full market opening proposed in the field of groundhandling services as a result of the economic crisis would not bring any tangible benefits to consumers but would further increase the burden on the undertakings providing groundhandling services. the full opening of the market may also lead to a fall in wage levels, a deterioration in employment security and worker training opportunities, and i therefore do not support the proposal in its present form.
in writing. − the commission's impact assessment shows that the current timetable system in the eu is not favourable for airports with limited capacity. eurocontrol has pointed out that one of the main transport challenges in europe is overcrowding at airports. the commission considers that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is compatible with the internal market on the basis of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the current system therefore needs to be renewed, modernised and, above all, made more efficient. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i believe that the recasting of the regulation is an important contribution to making more efficient use of scarce infrastructure capacity. in view of the expected growth of air traffic and the corresponding growth of airport infrastructure, airlines are faced with increasing constraints in the provision of the required transport services. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. i welcome the introduction of market economy instruments for the allocation of slots. this ensures that slots are allocated to the airlines that can best exploit them. i also welcome the possibility for airports to influence the early return of unnecessary or unused slots through pricing. i voted in favour of this report because it is the only way to ensure that slots are not blocked and that other airlines can use them.
in writing. − i consider it extremely important that the old legislation on noise protection issues at airports in the union is updated, since it was adopted in 2002 and numerous scientific sources have demonstrated over the last 10 years that noise pollution is a significant and increasing environmental problem. according to the world health organisation (who), traffic noise is taking one million years of healthy life from europeans every year. air transport currently exposes more than 3 million inhabitants across the union to night noise levels of more than 50 db, with irreversible adverse health effects. this is why we must do everything we can to protect our citizens, especially children, from the constant noise. the proposed regulation provides for this possibility, thus bringing financial, economic, health and environmental benefits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as i fully agree with the european commission's approach of taking a balanced approach to the most cost-effective measure to achieve the noise reduction targets set. i believe that the measures laid down in the proposal will finally enable member states to reconcile the economic consequences of noise abatement measures with the legitimate protection needs of the population exposed to noise. i also welcome the objective of clarifying the rules and procedures for introducing noise-related restrictions and making the deliberation process more transparent. i hope that by converting the existing directive into a regulation, noise protection measures will be more effective and distortions of competition within the european union will be avoided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as it is very important that in the next statistical programming period 2013-17, member states have at their disposal a much more advanced, better developed and even more evidence-based european statistical framework, capable of serving the area it targets in a high quality, complex multidimensional way. timeliness is of paramount importance for short-term statistics, but we should not forget the increasing burden on businesses and citizens in the provision of statistical data, which must be reduced in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a financial transaction tax could be a solution to the problems of reducing the eu's deficit and revenue. the issues at issue concern rather the manner, scope and practical implementation of the imposition of this common tax, on which there are a number of unresolved points which may explain why only 11 member states are planning to introduce this tax in the context of enhanced cooperation in the first place. however, i believe that the idea that the financial sector should be better involved in the sharing of burdens at european level, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, is correct.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted its report on the transport of animals at its plenary session in strasbourg today, in which it calls on the european commission to limit the transport time of animals to slaughter. the legislation calls on the european commission to take the initiative to limit the transport time of animals to slaughter to 8 hours. hungary, due to its central location, is crossed by a number of important transport routes to western european, southern european, turkish and middle eastern markets. if transport time were limited, more animals could be processed in our country, creating new jobs and making better use of our available slaughterhouse capacity. i voted for this report, which is very beneficial for our country.
in writing. − the report calls on the european commission to take the initiative of limiting the transport time of animals to slaughter to 8 hours, thereby also encouraging the establishment of local and mobile slaughterhouses. hungary, due to its central location, is crossed by a number of important transport routes to western european, southern european, turkish and middle eastern markets. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that if we restrict the time of transport, we could process more animals in our country, which would create new jobs and make better use of our available slaughterhouse capacity.
in writing. − the closest possible slaughter of animals to the farms is a top priority for the protection of livestock farming in the eu. the importation of animals for slaughter from third countries by sea is detrimental to the prospects of farmers in the union. it is therefore important that transport of animals for slaughter by sea is not subject to more favourable rules than transport by road. in order to protect hungarian livestock, i am voting in favour of extending the eight-hour time limit to transport of animals for slaughter transported by sea in addition to road transport.
in writing. − i am pleased that the report voted by the plenary pays particular attention to the issues and problems affecting national minorities. however, i was not able to vote for the report by the slovak socialist mp monika flašíková-beňová. the text of the report sets out in many places expectations of the member states which run counter to the values espoused by the epp and concern areas which fall specifically within the competence of the member states on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. these issues challenge the traditions, values and constitutional arrangements of each country, which should be respected as a basic human right. it should be stressed, however, that this does not mean that there are two types of fundamental human rights in the union. these are the same rights, no matter which side of the parliamentary rat we sit on. but behind these same basic rights, the people's party does not consider itself fortunate to hide an ideological struggle. since the european people's party has always stood for the protection of fundamental rights - which are also the values of the union to which it is committed - it saw no other way of expressing its commitment than to table an alternative resolution with a more balanced text.
in writing. - i am pleased that the report voted by the plenary, thanks also to the amendments tabled by the people's party, pays particular attention to the issues and problems affecting national minorities. however, i was not able to vote for the report by the slovak socialist mp, mónika flasiková-benová. the text of the report sets out in many places expectations of the member states which run counter to the values espoused by the epp and concern areas which fall specifically within the competence of the member states on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. these issues challenge the traditions, values and constitutional arrangements of each country, whose respect should be based on mutual respect as a fundamental human right. it should be stressed, however, that this does not mean that there are two types of fundamental human rights in the union. these are the same rights, no matter which side of the parliamentary rat we sit on. but behind these same basic rights, the people's party does not consider itself fortunate to hide an ideological struggle. since the european people's party has always stood for the protection of fundamental rights - which are also the values of the union to which it is committed - it saw no other way of expressing its commitment than to table an alternative resolution with a more balanced text.
in writing. − as the shadow rapporteur of the pp, i am pleased that the report voted by the plenary, including my amendments, pays particular attention to the issues and problems affecting national minorities. however, i was not able to vote for the report by the slovak socialist mp, mónika flasiková-benová. the text of the report sets out in many places expectations of the member states which run counter to the values espoused by the epp and concern areas which fall specifically within the competence of the member states on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. these issues challenge the traditions, values and constitutional arrangements of each country, whose respect should be based on mutual respect as a fundamental human right. it should be stressed, however, that this does not mean that there are two types of fundamental human rights in the union. these are the same rights, no matter which side of the parliamentary rat we sit on. but behind these same basic rights, the people's party does not consider itself fortunate to hide an ideological struggle. since the european people's party has always stood for the protection of fundamental rights - which are also the values of the union to which it is committed - it saw no other way of expressing its commitment than to table an alternative resolution with a more balanced text.
in writing. − i did not vote in favour of the report by monika flasiková-benová, because i believe that the document is both contrary to christian values and also concerns areas which are specifically within the competence of the member states. i do not think it is right that the european left and liberals have used the protection of these rights as a tool for their own political, ideological struggle.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president! the european parliament has been issuing its annual reports on the human rights situation in countries around the world for more than a decade, a good reflection of the union's commitment to universal human rights. these reports provide a unique opportunity to also monitor the deterioration of human rights around the world and to fulfil our moral obligation to put pressure on governments that violate fundamental human rights. i call on the european commission, the union's external service, to develop, in close cooperation with the european parliament and in response to their violations, a unified and effective strategy for the protection of human rights, based on solid principles. experience shows that without sufficient consistency and legitimacy, and without a common position of the eu institutions, coordinated with civil society, the so-called third countries do not take the european union seriously. in any event, the union has a duty to take stronger action than ever before in the face of the worsening human rights abuses, in particular in relation to the still existing communist dictatorships of china and north korea, and in relation to certain post-communist countries, notably russia and the post-soviet states. we must always stand up for human rights, because in the midst of the current severe global and eu crisis, we must stand up for our principles more strongly than ever.
i welcome and congratulate mr taveres on his report, which reviews the current eu human rights strategy framework with a view to increasing the union's effectiveness, efficiency and coherence in the protection of human rights. it is essential that the new eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, adopted by the foreign affairs council on 25 june, and the related action plan, are put into practice as soon as possible and as effectively as possible. it is also essential to coordinate the actions of the various eu and other international institutions and organisations. the union must set an example in the protection of human rights worldwide. the fundamental rights, freedoms and dignity of every person must be protected both within and outside the union. the work of the new special representative for human rights and all the messages we deliver here in the european parliament will be central to this endeavour. i have one of the most important tools of this, the annual human rights report. i am pleased that this year's report has given greater emphasis to the protection of the rights of children and minorities and has mentioned the creation of a new programme of volunteering in humanitarian aid, which will finally lead to concrete action in the field of human rights protection. congratulations again to both rapporteurs.
i agree with the conclusions of the excellent report by mr swoboda. relations between the eu and russia are stagnating. on the eu side, we have not found an antidote to president putin's rejection of moderate and well-founded eu criticism, as has hungarian prime minister viktor orbán. nevertheless, the european union must continue to criticise on a principled basis the anti-democratic developments in russia, the judicial failings in the magnitsky case, and the actions of non-governmental organisations. we must take a principled stance on these, but at the same time we must support visa liberalisation, visa facilitation. this is what the people of both the union and russia want, and we must continue to strive for proper energy cooperation in the future.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the israeli government's decision to extend the settlements in the west bank.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 13 december 2012.
next item statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine
my dear officer füle! i agree with the commission's assessment that the ukrainian parliamentary elections could hardly be described as democratic, even if they were not accompanied by large-scale fraud. as international observers have confirmed, the circumstances, the electoral conditions, the electoral system, the campaign controls, the media coverage, were not democratic. the field has dropped heavily in favor of the ruling party. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the electoral law recently adopted by the hungarian governing majority restricts democracy even more than the ukrainian law by introducing mandatory registration, the electoral system that compensates the winner, the redistricting of electoral districts, the electoral commission filled with party delegates elected for 9 years. it would be very good if this european commission would not only take action outside the union's borders, but also within the union's borders in order to ensure that democratic and fair elections are held.
in writing. – the progresses achieved by albania this year needs to be underlined, especially after two years of political stalemate. however, a lot remains to be done as to fulfilling the membership criteria. i welcome the legislation adopted against domestic violence but i notice at the same time that several reports pointed out the very high number of cases of trafficking in human beings. this is an issue that the albanian government has to acknowledge and firmly address. the protection of minorities, especially the living situation of the roma community, also needs to be improved. when it comes to justice and the rule of law, despite some important positive signs, such as the functioning of the parliamentary institutions, the dialogue between the government and the opposition must be further encouraged in order to pursue the much needed reforms. i am referring here to the fight against corruption and organised crime, and to the reform of the judiciary. it is my understanding that the socialist opposition had asked for a national debate on the rule of law in albania, and i regret that the ruling majority did not accept this proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mrs ždanoka, on her report, in which she has taken her decision in the interests of both parliament and the agency, and the people's party agrees with her. more than six years ago, i was fortunate to be part of the creation of the fundamental rights agency as rapporteur. i have been following the work of the agency ever since, and it has undoubtedly become an indispensable aid to our work, both here in parliament and, as we see, in the commission. five years ago, the first framework programme of the agency was discussed in this house. in the debate at the time, we argued that all three eu institutions, including parliament, should be equally involved in the development of the agency's mandate. we regret that the european parliament has not been able to give more details of the current negotiations, but we consider it important that the agency should be able to move as quickly as possible to a post-lisbon status, three years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. parliament does not wish to impede the agency's normal work after 1 january and therefore gives its consent to the procedure. we hope that the council will also remove the obstacle to extending the mandate of the agency to police and judicial cooperation as soon as possible. we hope that the bridge solution proposed by the cypriot presidency will be a temporary measure and that the mandate of this agency will finally extend to police and judicial cooperation. however, we believe that this solution can contribute to ensuring the continuity of the agency's work. i ask for your support in giving this feedback to the european parliament and i ask for the support of the member states.
mr president, what we have as paragraph 43 is the text which the rapporteur just read out. what he read before is under paragraph 70, so they are mixed up. this is a problem because the ppe group is in favour of paragraph 70, in which the establishment of a women’s interparliamentary euro-arab convention is mentioned. i think there is a mistake here. that is paragraph 70.
in writing. − the nature and extent of the work that the eu fundamental rights agency is obliged to carry out has significantly increased during the years that have passed since its establishment. one of these recent duties is the monitoring of the implementation of the eu framework for national roma inclusion strategies. the effective policy overview of such an all-european action plan needs significant human and financial resources as well as new and enhanced competences. a revision of the institutional structure and the functioning of the fra should probably therefore be considered, in order to enable the agency to successfully participate in the robust monitoring and supervision that the framework strategy calls for and, furthermore, all parallel and overlapping efforts need to be eliminated to enhance institutional and professional control over the related programmes.
in writing. − the importance of written declarations has changed with the enlargement of parliament's powers following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the introduction of the european citizens' initiative. i believe that written declarations currently have only a very limited impact on the decisions taken by the eu institutions. as vice-president of the group of the european people's party responsible for legislation, i consider it particularly important that we in the european parliament increasingly deal with proposals for legislative action that provide a real opportunity for individual members to influence eu legislation. i therefore support the provision in the proposal that in future only written statements by at least ten representatives of at least three political groups may be submitted on subjects falling within the exclusive competence of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on the ukrainian parliament to reject bill 8711, which was recently adopted at first reading and which would restrict freedom of expression and assembly. i would like to stress that i am concerned about the rise of nationalism in ukraine. it is therefore important that the resolution states that racist, anti-semitic and xenophobic views are contrary to the eu's fundamental values and principles. the ep calls on the parties in the ukrainian parliament committed to democracy not to support or form a coalition with the party.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report calling on the council to grant albania eu candidate status as soon as possible. the union must continue its enlargement to the western balkans, and albania is undoubtedly playing a stabilising role in this region. i agree with the report that the future of the country is linked to the european union and that the eu accession process should be the driving force behind the continuation of reforms. however, i myself stress the importance of maintaining political dialogue between the ruling majority and the opposition and the need to improve the political climate. during the election campaign next year, they must not allow albania to stray from the eu path and must ensure that parliamentary elections are free and fair. in addition, political actors must make the population understand that eu accession is in the common interest of all albanians. finally, i urge action against corruption in line with the report, which is a prerequisite for eu accession. the albanian leadership should pay close attention to this matter.
in writing. − very little progress was made in terms of the social inclusion of roma in the past years in albania, so it can be stated that the strategy for social inclusion for 2007-2013 could not fulfil the expectations. the government has approved decisions to assist in birth registration, but institutions have not properly coordinated the registration process and, although roma have benefited from the distribution of free text books and making public schooling compulsory, high school drop-out rates still remain high and enrolment rates in pre-schools are low. roma communities still live in substandard living conditions, and local government units are still insufficiently involved and aware of the problems, with critical services for roma still being largely provided by civil society organisations and financed by international donors. the programme therefore has proved to be unsustainable and in most areas achieved no or very limited progress due to financial constraints and the lack of coordination and expertise. albania must therefore draw the conclusions of its failed strategy and develop an action plan for the 2013-2020 period that is in line with he eu framework strategy and the eu must monitor and support its implementation through ipa and sap.
in writing. − steel is one of the world's most widely traded industrial products, used in large quantities in industries such as automotive, railway and construction. the eu steel industry accounts for 1.4% of gdp and more than 360 000 people are employed in more than 50 steel mills in the 23 eu member states. in the light of these data, i myself believe that it is of the utmost importance for the future of europe and its citizens that the steel industry is active and competitive, and that we should therefore encourage the european commission to propose how to restructure the european steel industry. i voted in favour of this motion because it is clear that the european steel industry is not in an easy situation and that is why we must do everything we can to maintain its competitiveness.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the armed rebellion of the m23 movement has reopened the wounds of a country that had already suffered a bloody conflict that lasted for years. the negotiations and dialogue process started last week are a first step towards a resolution, but the situation remains very unstable. given the deeply-rooted and multiple reasons for this conflict, as well as its implications for the whole region, a comprehensive plan and strategy is urgently needed. besides the sensitive ethnic situation, the economic and social environment, the role of the neighbourhood countries, and the struggle for the drc’s natural resources are issues that must also be addressed. the illicit exploitation and trading of natural resources, including illegal mining, must be prevented before a lasting solution can be found. i would like to underline the repeated atrocities that the citizens of the democratic republic of congo – and especially its eastern part – have endured over the years. i would like to highlight, in particular, that the use of sexual violence and rapes on a massive scale, including on underage girls, cannot be tolerated and needs to be put to an end. not only must we prevent such hateful crimes, but the utmost must be done to help the victims recover both physically and psychologically. more generally, the security of internally-displaced people needs to be strengthened, and the consequences of the conflict need to be seriously dealt with. without a proper strategy for the demobilisation and reintegration of ex-combatants and the repatriation of refugees, a lasting peace is unlikely.
mr president, caste discrimination in india remains a striking reality, despite the successive legislative acts enacted by the indian government. among these victims of social exclusion, the situation of female dalits is particularly alarming. they suffer from a double form of exclusion and face multiple forms of violence and exploitation. the act on the protection of women from domestic violence has proved to be rather inefficient so far, especially as the social environment makes it very difficult for them to report abuses. moreover, the women who dare to do so face strong prejudice from those who are supposed to ensure their protection, such as police forces or legal officers. in addition, many female dalits are employed in work that can be compared to modern slavery, such as manual scavenging or in factories in which they endure terrible working conditions. the report that some of these factories produce garments for western companies is very disturbing to say the least. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, what measures can be taken against european companies who would rely on such exploitation?
