mr president, would you mind reading out the figures again slowly please? there are only a few of us here.
mr president, we have experienced four years now of harsh austerity across europe and the results are perfectly clear: a downward spiral is being forced on ireland, portugal and greece; millions are now facing misery, with parents in greece giving up their children because they cannot afford to feed them; and the economy of the eu as a whole faces the potential for a recession in 2012. both the prime minister and mr barroso spoke about growth but, when you read the programme, it is clear that what we have here is business as usual – talking about growth while implementing austerity – and there is obviously a particular emphasis within the programme on the implementation of economic governance. economic governance pure and simple is a method of institutionalising austerity at the expense of democracy across europe. the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results; and that is precisely what we have here. is it insanity or is it simply a means of ensuring that the bondholders get their pound of flesh at the expense of working people? finally, can i ask about the attitude of the danish presidency and the commission as to the prospect of a referendum in ireland on the austerity treaty, which goes even further in institutionalising and enshrining austerity? will you respect the legal and political right of the irish people to a referendum and to vote freely without a campaign of fear or blackmail?
in writing. – the next six months are a crucial time for the eu, probably more so than during any other presidency for a generation. that the danish government take their commitments during this period seriously is, i presume, fully understood. however, i call on them further to step up to the plate, to realise that history will most likely be made over this period for good or for ill, and to fall on the right side of that history.
in writing. − i support the resolution on the european council, in particular the concerns expressed therein about the need for such an intergovernmental agreement and the need to reflect the proposals of the european parliament. the resolution stresses the need to reinforce the community method as a way to ensure greater stability in the eurozone. paragraph 5 is important in stressing the need for sustainable growth. fiscal discipline alone will not bring about recovery and that action is needed on both fronts.
a uachtaráin, is dócha gurb é seo an t-ábhar is tábhachtaí gur féidir linn a phlé i bparlaimint na heorpa, mar táimíd ag caint faoi thodhchaí an domhan. maidir leis an gcomhdháil in durban, is dócha gur féidir linn féachaint air ó thaobh an ghloine a bheith leathlán nó leathfholamh. féachaimse air ó thaobh an ghloine a bheith leathlán, mar rinneamar dul chun cinn nach roimh coinne leis. global warming is obviously a global problem and needs a global solution. we have to work in particular towards the target of keeping global warming down to less than 2% and at least an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. in relation to europe, we have to lead by example, particularly in relation to reaching the 2020 targets for renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy savings, and to show, as commissioner hedegaard herself said on 7 november in brussels, that green and growth go together. it then becomes a no-brainer for the rest of the world. on the broader front we have to tackle the big offenders: aviation, shipping and deforestation. in relation to deforestation in particular, we have to ensure that our trade policies do not encourage deforestation, particularly in the mercosur countries. nevertheless, we have made progress.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, gineann dramhthrealamh leictreach agus leictreonach (dtll) thart ar 9-10 milliún tona de dhramhaíl san ae gach bliain agus measter gur 12-13 milliún tona a bheidh ann faoin mbliain 2020. tá baol suntasach don tsláinte agus don chomhshaol i gceist le dtll nach bhfuil cóireáil cheart déanta air, agus is féidir go mbíonn ábhar guaiseach, cosúil le hairgead beo (i lasca), luaidhe (sa sádar) nó caidmiam (i gcadhnraí) ann. faoi straitéis 2020 an ae, tá an ae tiomanta i leith feabhas a chur ar rátaí athchursála agus athúsáide i gcás dtll agus aghaidh a thabhairt ar ídiú acmhainní. fearaim fáilte roimh bhearta láidir na treorach, go háirithe leis na forálacha a deir go mba cheart go mbeadh sé níos éasca ar thomhaltóirí teacht ar áiseanna dtll agus go mbeadh áiseanna athchursála dtll saor in aisce le fáil i lárionaid díola ar bith atá níos mó ná 400 méadar cearnach. chuirfeadh sé sin brú breise ar tháirgeoirí agus ar ghnóthais bheaga agus, dá bhrí sin, tacaím le moltaí na tuarascála maidir le cúraimí tuairiscthe níos simplí agus bearta chun déghearradh táillí a chosc a chur i bhfeidhm do tháirgeoirí, arb iad siúd atá freagrach as costais bainistíochta dramhaíola.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, oh to be a commissioner and be able to have so much time to speak! it was good to hear your fulsome response, commissioner. i have less time but i will be quite blunt. i would like you to take the comments in this debate as armour and weapons into your struggles on this matter. this house is united about one issue, which is that there is a problem at both ends – and, indeed, in the centre – of the food supply chain. the bové report, which was an initiative of mine in the epp group – and i thank mr bové for his work on it – deals with the farm input problem. it is serious, and you have acknowledged that. at the other end we have had the excellent work of my colleague mrs patrão neves on the imbalance of power and the need to look at this. i am particularly pleased by your words, and i quote you here, that you will ‘reserve the right to legislate’. i think the stakeholders should listen with concern and be prepared to face legislation if there is no cooperation and effective change on this issue. commissioner, you mentioned the financial services sector. i think you were right to do that. there is a huge parallel between what has happened in financial services – to the discredit of the european union – and what is happening in the food supply chain. my interest in this house is in the food supply chain. food security is fundamental. are you, as commissioner, prepared to watch over the destruction of this if we do not take action now? let me warn you that, though we have been up early for this debate, there are others in the food chain who have been up much earlier and are taking from the pockets of producers, both their pockets, to cushion their own profits. some of the practices that are going on you do not even know and we do not fully understand. there is something rotten in this system, and unless politicians have the bottle to call it rotten, there will be no change. take this debate to the commission and take action.
madam president, it is one of the great misconceptions of agriculture that higher food prices automatically translate into higher farm incomes. however, it is the experience of farmers in my own member state, ireland, that they are not getting fair play or a fair return in the food supply chain. in 2010, average farm incomes in ireland were eur 17 700, or just over 50% of the average industrial wage. since 2000 the cost of on-farm production has increased by over 37%, despite major efficiencies at farm level. at the same time the price paid to farmers has increased by only 14%. i have no doubt that this imbalance is replicated for farmers right across the eu. it is clear that primary producers are being squeezed from both sides of the food supply chain. on the one side they receive low-grade farm gate prices due to the strong position of processors and retailers, and on the other side they pay high input prices due to increased concentration of input companies. total input costs for eu farmers rose by almost 40% between 2000 and 2010 and costs continue to increase for farmers year on year. the upper pressure on these prices will rise further as a result of resource scarcity and a growing demand for food. on the other side of the chain, retailers have used their powers over farmers to implement a number of methods such as ‘hello money’, ‘pay to play money’, payment delays, shelf space pricing and carrying the costs of discount campaigns, which cut away at the returns of farmers and buy their produce in unfair and unbalanced conditions. this is about fair return for fair work, making a viable living from work that brings added value to the environment, delivers food security and puts food on the table of the european citizens. the retailers, processors, food suppliers and consumers are key stakeholders in the food supply chain, but so is the farmer. i think we should remember that.
mr president, unless we take action to curb the increases in farm input prices, we run the risk of making it too expensive for our farmers – especially our smaller farmers – to operate. we cannot afford to price our farmers out of the market. any such reduction in agricultural holdings would simply increase our dependency on external markets. this would be negative for europe both in terms of the value of agriculture to the eu and in terms of the quality and safety of the food available to consumers. the agri-food industry and distribution represent 7% of total employment within the eu, and are worth eur 1 200 billion per year – more than any other manufacturing sector in the eu. there is the further problem that food produced in third countries may not be of the same quality, and may not adhere to the same standards and rigorous health and safety provisions, as food which is produced within the eu. given the importance of the agri-food industry to europe, it is therefore vital that we protect farmers and thoroughly examine the issue of increasing farm output prices.
mr president, i think everything that needs to be said has been said and said well by colleagues from across the floor here this morning. the stark reality is that inputs have risen by at least 40% and farm-gate prices by probably at the very most 25%. this is not sustainable and it needs urgent action. hopefully it will come. certainly the monopolies have to be tackled. mr smith and others have outlined instances of extraordinary monopolies that definitely must be tackled. secondly there are opportunities with energy efficiency and other measures whereby farmers can help themselves, but as mr stevenson pointed out they have to be practical and not by people who are selling products that will not make much difference in the long term. finally there are the multiples: these really have to be tackled at the earliest possible opportunity.
in writing. – the widening gap between input and production costs and farm-gate prices is not economically viable; for the younger generation farming is not a viable option. only 7 % of irish farmers are under 35 years old. we now have a world population of 7 billion; by 2027 it is projected that the world population will reach 8 billion and by 2046, 9 billion! this means that a decreasing numbers of farmers will have to double food production, while also battling climate change and maintaining food standards. the total input costs for eu farmers climbed by 40 % between 2000 and 2010, while farm-gate prices have increased by only 25 %. farmers are living on their overdrafts or savings and that cannot continue. we need to ensure that farming is a real career choice for our young people.
mr president, i compliment the rapporteur for his work on this report. it seems to me that it would be an excellent idea to focus our attention on this issue and the year dedicated to it – we proposed 2014. this would be quite sensible. it is also an election year and it is a very practical issue that we can talk about with our citizens. this is not simply about the food we throw out at home: there is huge waste in this institution, i dare say, in hospitals, in public places and right through the food chain. the debate in this chamber this morning feeds into, if i can use that phrase, our earlier debate about the entire food supply chain. if we can reduce food waste we will have a more efficient and more sustainable supply chain, which is vital.
mr president, the world population reached seven billion last year and it is expected to reach more than nine billion by 2050. because of this it is vital that we consider the issue of food security and of ensuring that we can produce enough food to feed our growing populations. in focusing on producing enough food for people, we must also look at how we use the food we produce and, to that end, we must also focus on food waste. food waste happens at all points of the food chain – at the level of production, at the point of sale and at the point of consumption. however, the points at which food waste typically occurs differ depending on the country. in industrialised countries, most waste is concentrated at the final stages, in distribution and consumption. in ireland it is estimated that up to a third of the food we buy ends up in the bin, potentially costing families more than eur 1 000 per year. the website stopfoodwaste.ie was set up under the national waste prevention programme to educate people about the issue and to promote awareness of measures to prevent food waste. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i tried to draw the attention of the president on monday, and your attention now, to sending a vote of sympathy to the irish fishermen’s organisation who lost five fishermen when their boat tit bonhomme foundered off the coast of cork last weekend. miraculously, there was one survivor, but unfortunately five perished, so perhaps you, and the members, would associate a vote of sympathy on this with the previous one.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom comhghairdeas a dhéanamh le mo chomhghleacaí karl-heinz florenz as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aige, ní amháin sa tuarascáil seo ach ina lán tuarascálacha eile. i ndáiríre tá gaisce déanta aige. mr florenz, who has now departed – thankfully not this life but the chamber – has done good work and it has been recognised by all the speakers in the house. this is certainly a huge area for us. as more and more electrical and electronic equipment comes onto the market, it is important that it be disposed of properly and also recycled, and particularly important to end some terrible practices such as exporting waste electrical and electronic equipment to third countries. by abiding by the proposals here, we can help to improve the environment, we can secure secondary raw materials and we can help to improve the health of our citizens. this is another instance of ‘win-win’ for all europe’s citizens.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí an-áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo, agus éisteacht agus páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht a bhí againn air seo ar maidin. bhí an díospóireacht ar fheabhas ar fad. i ndeireadh na dála táimid ag dul i ngleic leis an bhfadhb mhór seo, mar a bhfuil brabús iontach á dhéanamh ag na ceannaithe móra – na multinationals ach go háirithe – agus brabús an-bheag nó gan aon bhrabús á dhéanamh ag na feirmeoirí. caithfear é seo a chur ina cheart. caithfear deireadh a chur le droch-chleachtais, go háirithe cleachtais cosúil le hello money, mar a thugann siad air. má éiríonn linn é seo a cheartú beidh cothrom na féinne ag ár bhfeirmeoirí. tá sé in am dúinn é sin a dhéanamh, mar go dtí seo tá rith an ráis leis na ceannaithe móra agus níl sé sin féaráilte d’aon duine.
mr president, this is very similar to the previous topic and the same issues apply. i just want to emphasise again that we really need to tackle it at producer level and, particularly, at the level of the multinationals. if we do that and establish parity for everybody along the food chain, then we will be doing a good job. it is a big task but we must keep at it until it is complete.
a uachtaráin, nuair a rinne mé taighde ar an ábhar seo, chuir na figiúirí sceoin orm i ndáiríre. tá a lán tithe, agus tá siad ag caitheamh amach suas go eur 1 000 bia gach uile bliain. is mór an méid airgid é sin, agus caithfear rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi. this report is very important. it points out some startling statistics – for instance that 60% of the food that is thrown out need not be thrown out, and 20% is thrown out due to confusion over dates and product labelling. so that is the first thing we need to get right, and then we need to make consumers aware of it. we also need to take into account the greenhouse gas emissions entailed in producing food that is not going to be used, and then to look at the other side of this question: at proper biowaste management for food that will not be required. we have a lot of work to do, but this is a basis.
in writing. − while i supported the s&d group in voting for this motion, ireland remains outside the schengen area, and so will not be affected by this vote.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which should be the first step towards improving the safety of vehicles with regard to the safety and protection of the occupants of the cab of commercial vehicles.
in writing. − given a series of recent road deaths in ireland, it is crucial to highlight pedestrian safety, and so i call on the commission and parliament to redouble their efforts in the wake of this vote.
in writing. − i commend this recommendation, which should streamline the technical specifications for pedestrian safety and light emitting diode (led) light sources, not just in the eu, but in many car producing countries.
in writing. − i welcome this agreement, which replaces provisions in the existing 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and indonesia, and thus streamlines the legal arrangement.
in writing. − i welcome this new mutual commitment to achieving the highest levels of aviation safety worldwide and a global harmonisation of safety standards and recommended practices (sarps). to identify unsafe areas and carriers is of common fundamental interest to all parties to this agreement.
in writing. − this issue only increases in importance as environmental waste and the subsequent environmental damage increase. i was pleased to support this vote.
in writing. − i welcome the revision of the weee directive. at present there is a real lack of clarity regarding the products covered by the weee directive and their categorisation, with different interpretations by different member states and stakeholders. this is an area in desperate need of clarification. the lack of enforcement requirements has resulted in the directive being widely ignored; one cannot help but question the effectiveness of the current weee directive. i support the weee report and voted in favour of this recast but, as always, we must ensure that we do not place overly burdensome regulations on already struggling smes and retailers.
in writing. − waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) accounts for approximately 9-10 million tonnes of waste in the eu per annum, projected to increase to 12-13 million tonnes by 2020. i welcome this substantial improvement on the existing directive, outlining broader scope and increased collection and recycling targets. ireland is a leader in europe in the field of electrical and electronic equipment collection, already collecting around 9 kg per inhabitant per year – an amount equivalent to 35% of the eee placed on the market. the target of 45% of eee placed on the market by 2016 is welcome and should be achievable. in the context of resource efficiency, it is imperative that further efforts are made to increase weee recycling and reuse rates. the final outcome is more ambitious than originally hoped for, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − while it is not always desirable on balance to use biocidal products, on foot of environmental concerns, i supported this vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the calls for continued improvement of the safety of biocidal products used and placed on the market in the european union, as well as simplification of authorisation procedures, including at eu level.
in writing. − i welcome and thoroughly support this badly-needed report. farming is not a viable option for our younger generation. only 7 % of irish farmers are under 35 years of age. we now have a world population of 7 billion; in 2027 it is projected that the world population will reach 8 billion and in 2046, 9 billion! this means that decreasing numbers of farmers will have to double food production, while also battling climate change and maintaining food standards. the total input costs for eu farmers climbed, on average, by almost 40 % between 2000 and 2010, while farm-gate prices have increased by only 25 %. farmers are living on their overdrafts or savings and that cannot continue. we need to ensure that farming is a real career choice for our young people, in order to ensure food security for future generations.
in writing. − since 2009, there has been an 11.6 % reduction in farm incomes at eu level, whilst total input costs for eu farmers have increased on average by 40 %-80 % between 2000 and 2010. this imbalance has impacted on the overall profitability of farming in the eu. i fully support this report which examines current market structures and addresses problems regarding the supply of essential farm inputs in the long-term, in addition to suggesting policy options aimed at reducing farm input costs.
in writing. − a sustainable farm and food sector is vital for eu citizens. for this, all players in the food supply chain must get a fair return and no sector should be allowed to exercise undue power over others. i fully support this resolution which calls for the guarantee of fair and transparent relationships between producers, suppliers and distributors of food products.
in writing. − i voted in favour, in order to boost international cooperation, advance the galileo project, and increase investment in research and development.
i scríbhinn. − mar scáth-rapóirtéir don ghrúpa alde ar an tuarascáil seo, tugaim lán mo thacaíochta dá bhfuil ann agus, ós rud é gur féidir 50% de dhiomailt bia a sheachaint, iarraim ar an gcoimisiúin bearta na tuarascála a chur i bhfeidhm. caitheann tomhaltóirí na héireann amach 30% den bhia a cheannaítear in ollmhargaí, ar chostas eur 1 000 sa bhliain do gach teaghlach. is ionann an scéal ar fud an ae agus mura ndéanfar faic, tiocfaidh méadú ó 90 milliún tona anois go 126 milliún tona faoin mbliain 2020 ar dramhbhia an ae. is gránna an scéal é go bhfuil méadú 40% chun teacht ar dhiomailt bia agus fadhbanna le slándáil an tsoláthair bia agus le bochtaineacht ag dul in olcas. tá fianaise ann gurb iad teaghlaigh an ae is mó a ghineann an diomailt inseachanta bia – 42% den iomlán – agus ní mór go gcuirfí moltaí na tuarascála maidir le feabhas a chur ar eolas an tomhaltóra ar lipéadú bia agus dáta deiridh bia (m.sh. dáta deiridh díola agus úsáide) i bhfeidhm gan mhoill. fearaim fáilte freisin roimh a bhfuil ann maidir le leathnú ar scéimeanna chun bia nach ndíoltar a dháileadh ar dhaoine díothacha agus gríosaím díoltóirí an aontais páirt a ghlacadh i scéimeanna dá leithéid.
in writing. − this topic is one of seminal importance, particularly as the world population recently reached 7 billion. i was pleased to endorse this report, and hope to see far more effort in this field.
in writing. − i completely support calls for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste. the designation of 2013 would raise huge awareness of this very serious issue. food wastage defies logic in a world where we are struggling to feed our growing population. there are 925 million hungry people in the world, meanwhile europeans waste between 95 kg and 115 kg of food per capita per year, as opposed to between 6 kg and 11 kg in sub-saharan africa. causes included surplus food produced in industrialised countries, and the lack of efficient transport systems and infrastructure (the cold chain, for example) and secure storage facilities in developing countries. this is an area where we cannot afford not to act and i would encourage the commission to afford this own-initiative report the attention it deserves.
in writing. − food waste occurs across the food supply chain; on farmland, in the processing industry, in distribution companies and in consumers’ homes. based on data gathered since 1974, it is estimated that food waste around the world has risen by 50 %. combating food waste should be prioritised on europe’s policy agenda and i support the calls for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste.
mr president, i think to some extent we have been lurching from one regulation to another and while i accept that it would be very difficult, if we did not have the institutions we have, to keep a grasp on the matter, i think it is time to move on. mr draghi said two weeks ago in the committee on economic and monetary affairs that you can have fiscal rectitude without growth but you cannot have growth without fiscal rectitude. i support that. i think that is a fair definition, but please, more emphasis, more leadership, on growth. as part of this we surely need some new definition of what the market economy is meant to stand for. we are in a situation, it appears to me, where the private sector is regulating the public sector and there is very little accountability. oligarchs seem to be in charge of certain parts of the markets, so please, let us have more attention to what the markets are doing to the public sector and to us as parliaments and governments, and let us do more to give leadership, to try and bring about growth and jobs.
in writing. – like many of my countrymen, like much of my s&d group, like many commentators and citizens across the eu, i am wary of the need for this ‘fiscal compact’ treaty. that the smaller and indebted states need to show the larger and more stable economies that we are serious about reform is fully accepted in ireland and elsewhere. whether or not this should extend to a treaty which simply reiterates much of which was included in the recent six pack, and indeed the maastricht treaty many years before that, is more debateable. if this treaty truly helps europe to get back on its feet, and produces a more fair and balanced union, then i commend its authors on a visionary text. if, however, it fails to achieve these objectives, it will be seen as a folly, and at this juncture it would be generous to suggest that it could equally go either way.
mr president, my affection for russia – as opposed to its leaders – comes from the many hours i have spent reading some of its and the world’s greatest writers. i think it is for that reason i take a special interest in russia. it is only right and proper that we should engage with russia even if, as baroness ashton put it in her most diplomatic language, to do so is not without difficulty. but i think we have a duty to highlight issues such as the lack of fundamental rights, the non-free elections and, of course, corruption. i think we all accept that change will have to come from russia itself. perhaps the day of the russian version of the arab spring may be closer than mr putin would wish. lastly, we should also look at the question of energy supply to europe. we are far too dependent on russian energy sources – and that needs to change.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and his inclusive approach to this report. the report has drawn attention from across a wide interest spectrum: from athletes, volunteers, sporting organisations and the media. sport is intrinsic to the lives of european citizens, it crosses social divides and borders, it unites people and it enriches our lives. a european sports policy is not about harmonisation, it is not about taking the soul of competition out of sport and it should not be narrowed down to a debate on the presence of the eu flag. the compromise text is flexible and it remains up to sporting organisations and member states to decide. the excellent recommendations in this report on supporting volunteers, strengthening and improving access to training, education for coaches and athletes, promoting traditional sports, eliminating doping and tackling corruption in sport should not be overshadowed. this is a report that provides us with a strong framework for creating a european sports policy based on social inclusion and enhancing sport in europe. as an mep from a member state that boasts the world’s largest amateur and volunteer sporting organisation – that is the gaelic athletic association, with one million amateur members – i am pleased that this report has acknowledged the important role which volunteers play. there are 35 million amateurs involved in sporting organisations in europe. the role of volunteers and amateurs is central to the continued success of sporting organisations in every community, and that is why it is essential that the commission allocates a budget to sports policy. sport is a vehicle that delivers on broader eu aims across several policy areas, such as community development, active ageing and healthy and active living. it has a successful economic dimension and it is a social phenomenon that delivers an invaluable public good. finally i would like to highlight the importance of the right of journalists to access and report on sporting events. there is public appetite for sports news and we must be sure to safeguard the right of the public to obtain and receive independent news and information on sporting events.
mr president, the debate this evening has pooled many valid and crucial reasons for the commission to up its game and back sport more effectively in the eu. i come at this debate from a different angle, as a former mental health professional of 25 years. the psychological benefits of regular sport are understated yet unquestionable. exercise converts adrenaline into energy and is a primary creator of endorphins. exercise advances self-confidence and can afford someone a new lease of life. the many and varied benefits of sport are, i hope, fully understood by the commission following today’s debate, and i look forward to progress in this area.
blue-card question. – mr president, in relation to the speaker’s point about use of the european flag, it is specifically stated that this should be entirely voluntary and up to member states. i would like to ask the speaker what her understanding is of the term ‘entirely voluntary’.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom mo chomhbhrón a dhéanamh faoin tragóid a tharla san éigipt anocht. maidir leis an tuarascáil seo, caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil an-áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht go háirithe ós rud é go raibh baint agam leis an spórt ar feadh mo shaoil ar fad: mar imreoir, mar uachtarán ar chumann lúthchleas gael agus mar phríomhfheidhmeannach ar fhoras spóirt na héireann. anois, tá tuarascáil againn a thugann seans dúinn airteagal 165 de chonradh liospóin a chur i bhfeidhm. molaim santiago fisas ayxela agus gach duine a chabhraigh chun an tuarascáil seo a chur le chéile. i am very pleased with the report, particularly as some amendments that i tabled have been taken on board, especially in relation to grassroots sport, which gives effect to the written declaration that the members so kindly passed here last year. also the possibility of growth in sports tourism, and the european regional development fund and the european social fund to be used to develop infrastructure in sport, particularly in indigenous sports, of which the gaa, as my colleague liam aylward mentioned, is a shining example in my country. but as the commissioner mentioned – and i was pleased to hear her mention it – the mff and the budget are going to be crucial. one argument we can certainly put forward in this context is that sport implies, directly or indirectly, 15 million people contributing 3.6% of gdp in the european union. there are many more arguments, but that certainly justifies a good sports budget. there are other suggestions which i am very pleased about. i see nothing wrong, by the way, with the suggestion about the european flag; after all, where do you expect to fly the european flag – outside the european union or inside it? that is one argument. also the european day of sport and the european capitals of sport, which is a wonderful development (i have seen that in my own country as well recently), and the erasmus for all programme. there are a lot of good suggestions, and with a good budget we will make a lot of progress.
mr president, in ireland we are told to keep the rules of the new fiscal treaty, as it will eliminate any risk of future crisis and will help solve the current one. from 2002 to 2008 ireland did not once break the stability and growth pact – unlike others. so we know from bitter experience that keeping to the rules does not always deliver and certainly will not deal with the current crisis. in 2007 we had a debt-to-gnp ratio of 30%. by 2014 it will have ballooned to 145%. no developed economy can survive those levels of debt. we have just survived four years of austerity. our debt levels, directly linked to bailing out banks in ireland and in europe, are unsustainable, and yet we are told that more of the same, without any commitment to eurobonds, to redemption funds or debt restructuring, will solve our problems. it will not and it cannot, and given that our access to the esm is tied to ratification of the treaty, this is little short of blackmail. those are the hardest words i have ever said in this parliament. i hope i never have to repeat them. europe can do much better than that for itself and for ireland.
mr president, my subject is safety at sea. unfortunately there are always tragedies associated with the sea. only two weeks ago in my own constituency a fishing trawler sank just as it was coming into the safety of the harbour. our sympathies go to the families affected, in particular the irish and egyptian families. also at that time we had the tragedy with the cruise liner off italy. it was reported widely in the media that what i might call showboating may have been responsible for this. i want to look at the wider picture. can we establish whether there are practices like this, which are contrary to safety regulations, being undertaken by cruise ships – and maybe others? also, what is the optimal size of a cruiser? a few years ago the average was one thousand passengers and now it is five thousand.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. for all the many citizens who petition parliament, i am afraid to say that there are many other citizens who have no regard for waste management. we need to acknowledge that public awareness needs to be increased in relation to how to manage waste, both within the home and at work. there is much to be done. if people were obliged to visit landfills that were not working properly, they might think twice about dumping waste and putting it into refuse sacks. i know that in county louth, where i come from, there is an old landfill dump that now soaks up a great deal of money because of the environmental problems it poses, and it also causes difficulties for the people who live in the area. i would ask the commission to address the issue of recycling tyres – perhaps not today, commissioner – as this certainly is an area where there is a lot of illegal activity. we are not getting the value from the recycling of tyres that we could.
mr president, i think it is important, as part of the daphne programme’s incorporation into the rights and citizenship programme, that future initiatives receive a level of focus and funding similar to that provided throughout the previous three daphne programmes. i particularly agree that renewed emphasis should be placed on small ngos and non-profit organisations, whose participation is invaluable if we are to meet the programme’s aims. in my own home country, a number of organisations have participated in daphne projects and daphne-funded initiatives that have contributed to the prevention of violence against women, children and young people. these projects range from the dignity initiative – in which the dublin employment pact and the immigration council of ireland worked with european partners to attempt to raise the quality of services delivered to victims of sex trafficking – to helping establish and promote the pan-european 116000 hotline for missing children. it is vital that the union continues to support the good work carried out by these organisations and similar organisations all around europe.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, is í aidhm chlár daphne leanaí, daoine óga agus mná a chosaint ón bhforéigean agus cosaint sláinte, an fholláine agus an t-iniamh sóisialta a spreagadh. tá éirithe go maith le clár daphne an pobal a chur ar an eolas maidir leis na saincheisteanna sin agus aird a tharraingt ar an bhforéigean in aghaidh na mban agus leanaí. tugann an clár tacaíocht d’eagraíochtaí ábhartha dul chun cinn a dhéanamh agus, le cabhair ó bheartais phraiticiúla cosúil le nósanna deachleachtais a aithint agus a roinnt, oiliúint, agus feachtais eolais a rith, spriocanna cinnte a bhaint amach. ba mhaith liom, áfach, aird a tharraingt ar theip an choimisiúin an bheolíne 116000 do leanaí ar iarraidh a chur i bhfeidhm ar fud an aontais. tá leanaí á gcur i mbaol de bharr na teipe sin agus an bonn á bhaint den mhéid atá déanta ag clár daphne maidir le leanaí a chosaint sna ballstáit uile. is gléas fíorthábhachtach í an bheolíne ó thaobh leanaí a chosaint de. mar atá faoi láthair, níl an tseirbhís i bhfeidhm i gceart agus gríosaím an coimisiún aghaidh a thabhairt ar fheidhmiú na beolíne agus ar a ról i gclár daphne.
madam president, firstly we must say that these new sanctions are not aimed at the iranian people who have been suffering long and hard under an authoritarian regime. secondly, it is not our remit to prohibit any country from developing nuclear energy if it so wishes. but of course in iran all the evidence suggests that the intent goes far beyond nuclear energy and has a military dimension. this has been borne out by six resolutions of the security council of the united nations, of which iran is a member; all have been ignored. so like mr kamall said a minute ago in relation to another topic, it is time for us to put up or shut up, and putting-up means imposing sanctions with the hope that iran will desist from its present course and return to the negotiating table.
a uachtaráin, vótálas ar son na tuarascála seo agus cosúil le cainteoirí eile bhí baint agam lena cur le chéile. bhí áthas an domhain orm gur glacadh leis an tuarascáil le móramh mór: 550 i bhfabhar, 73 i gcoinne agus 7 ag staonadh. is móramh mór é sin gan dabht ar bith. aontaím freisin leis na cainteoirí faoi thábhacht an spóirt ag an leibhéal áitiúil, na cumainn dheonacha áitiúla nó grassroots sports mar a thugann siad air. ach an rud is tábhachtaí anois ná go mbeadh buiséad maith ag dul leis sa chéad mff (creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil) eile, mar gan airgead ní féidir linn na moltaí agus na cláracha atá luaite sa tuarascáil seo a chur i bhfeidhm. dá bhrí sin tá súil agam go dtarlóidh sé sin ar mhaithe le spórt ar fud na heorpa ar fad.
madam president, i think this is a lost opportunity. the commissioner here at the debate this morning pointed out that there could be eur 72 billion made available to the economy, 242 million fewer tonnes of emissions and lots of jobs created if waste was properly managed across the european union. instead we have had too many countries that would not even apply the directive leading, as kay swinburne said, to many petitions coming here. i led one myself and i am pleased to say that, as a result of the decision here and the direction given by the committee on petitions, eur 40 million has now been committed to closing a toxic site in my constituency, haulbowline, which was leading to an increase in cancer 37% higher than the national average. that is the kind of action that is needed. every member state should take this on board: to eliminate waste firstly – restaurants and households could have far less waste – and then to utilise it properly.
in writing. − eu policy towards the brics and other emerging powers is important, but it is also important to understand the implications of furthering trading relationships and the consequences of same. in paragraph 12, the report supports a balanced and fair conclusion of the eu-mercosur agreement. however, the commission has indicated that such an agreement will damage the interests of eu agriculture. indeed the commission is prepared to accept that damage will be done by attempting to extend the scope of the eu globalisation adjustment fund to farmers. i am totally opposed to such a proposal, which threatens the future of eu family farming at a time when we are concerned about food security and are reforming the common agriculture policy. for this reason i cannot support this report and abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which outlines and supports the conclusions of the council informal summit on 30 january 2012 during which a new treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union was finalised by 25 of the 27 member states. the treaty aims to strengthen fiscal discipline through the introduction of stricter surveillance and more automatic sanctions, and in particular through the ‘balanced budget rule’.
in writing. − as the first parliamentary report on sport, since the lisbon treaty gave the eu a new competence for sport, we were delighted to support the recommendations in this report relating to supporting volunteers and grass roots sports, strengthening improving access to training and education for coaches and athletes, promoting traditional sports, eliminating doping and tackling corruption and violence in sport. the majority of the debate on this report has focused on article 100 in relation to the use of the eu flag at sporting events. given the flexible and voluntary nature of the final text we voted to support this article. the text states that displaying the eu flag is entirely voluntary and up to the member states and sports organisations to decide whether they will use this option. given the ‘entirely voluntary’ nature of this option we supported this text and the strong recommendations of the report on the future of sports policy overall.
in writing. − although i supported the overall text of this report, i abstained from voting on paragraph 1 which urges ‘a dedicated and ambitious budget for sports policy under the future multiannual financial framework (mff)’. many major eu policy areas are facing substantial reductions in their future budget and, unless member states increase their gni-based contributions to the next mff, achieving this noble objective of supporting an eu dimension in sport will sadly be very difficult.
in writing. − eurostat figures from 2009 show that eu citizens produce on average 513 kg of municipal waste per person per year; in ireland, the figure was between 700 and 800 kg per person. by the end of 2009, eu infringement cases related to waste constituted 20% of all environmental infringements. a resource-efficient europe is one of the flagship targets of the europe 2020 strategy, and the waste framework directive introduced a 50% target for recycling of municipal waste, to be met by 2020 in all member states. i welcome the commission’s increased support for the directive with resources to improve implementation and enforcement in the eu waste acquis at national level. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted, on this occasion, in favour of the words ‘violation of sexual and reproductive rights’, mentioned in recital k of this report. i would usually not support the term ‘reproductive rights’, which some say is synonymous with abortion. in this report, however, about the daphne programme – a community action programme to fight violence against women and children – ‘reproductive rights’ are mentioned in a different context. i could, therefore, support the text.
in writing. − i abstained on the words ‘violation of sexual and reproductive rights’ in recital k of this report. i would normally vote against ‘reproductive rights’ as some claim this is synonymous with abortion. however, ‘reproductive rights’ are mentioned here in a different context, therefore i abstained rather than voted against.
i scríbhinn. − ní bhainfear amach spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise mura ndéanfar dul chun cinn suntasach maidir leis an rochtain ar fhoinsí fuinnimh a fheabhsú. tá 1.3 billiún duine ar fud an domhain nach bhfuil teacht ar leictreachas acu, agus 2.7 billiún duine nach bhfuil áiseanna glana cócaireachta acu. mar thoradh ar an easpa sin bíonn fadhb mhór ann maidir le deatach laistigh de thithe, rud is cúis le 1.4 milliún bás roimh am. níl ag teastáil ach méadú 1% ar an méid fuinnimh atá á úsáid faoi láthair chun spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise a bhaint amach i dtíortha atá i mbéal forbartha. chuige sin, ní mór rochtain ar sheirbhísí fuinnimh inmharthana, suas chun dáta a áirithiú d’fhonn spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise a bhaint amach agus an bhochtaineacht a ruaigeadh. tacaím go hiomlán le moltaí an rapóirtéara maidir le clár ar leith um ‘fhuinneamh agus forbairt’ a bhunú i mbeartas an aontais i réimse an chomhair um fhorbairt, ag díriú ar an rochtain ar fhuinneamh do chách go háirithe. ní mór go neartódh an ae an comhar um fhorbairt trí eolas agus taithí teicneolaíochta ó thaobh cúrsaí fuinnimh de a roinnt leis na tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha.
in writing. − this report focuses on the tax initiatives taken by the commission during 2011; it also suggests areas where further initiatives are necessary. although the report notes that taxation is a matter for national and in some cases local sovereignty it does ‘stress’ that some eventual tax harmonisation could encourage growth and job creation. it is for this reason that i abstained in the final vote on this report.
i scríbhinn. − tá mórán buntáistí i gceist le beartas iomaíochta an ae ó thaobh cearta tomhaltóirí a chur chun cinn, agus tá sé ríthábhachtach chomh maith ó thaobh fás eacnamaíoch an mhargaidh aonair a spreagadh agus na baic ar shaorghluaiseacht daoine, earraí agus caipitil san aontas a dhíothú. ní mór leas earnáil na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide a chur chun cinn san aontas eorpach ar mhaithe le margadh aonair láidir agus iomaíoch a chothú. tacaím go hiomlán le moltaí an rapóirtéara maidir le creat rialála um cheisteanna maoinithe agus íocaíochta in earnáil na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide a bhunú. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir leis an iomaíocht a chur chun cinn in earnálacha uile an mhargaidh – agus san earnáil seirbhísí go háirithe, earnáil atá freagrach as 70% den gheilleagar eorpach – agus maidir le bunú comhlachtaí agus seirbhísí nua a spreagadh. ní mór go dtabharfadh páirtithe leasmhara uile an mhargaidh inmheánaigh tús áite do leas tomhaltóirí agus earnáil na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide d’fhonn splanc a chur an athuair faoin margadh inmheánach agus fás na ngeilleagar eorpach a spreagadh amach anseo.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is é an dúshlán is mó atá romhainn ná jabanna a chruthú dár n-aos óg trasna na heorpa, agus fás agus forbairt a chothú san eacnamaíocht. má chabhraíonn an scéim seo linn beidh jab maith déanta againn. members have already questioned the desirability and the practicality of moving funds from the structural funds into this scheme, and i also noted ms ernst’s question as to how ireland, a country which has already utilised its structural funds, can avail itself of a scheme like this? nevertheless, assuming this can happen, eur 82 billion is a lot of money. it is actually eur 3 billion per member state, with eur 1 billion left over, and it can make a big difference to the situation we find ourselves in. assuming it can happen, however, i would appeal for a few things. number one: flexibility, because without flexibility i can see state agencies gobbling the money up and the scheme not being as effective as it should be. so the private sector must be allowed to get involved in terms both of education and training and of providing opportunities. in addition, the training has to be practically based, not the formulaic, off-the-shelf training that we often get from state agencies – and i saw this in particular in relation to fas (the training and employment authority) and the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund in ireland. finally, i would appeal for the message to be communicated to the state agencies, especially local authorities, and to young people themselves, that this is going to happen, that they can avail themselves of it and that through it they can get jobs. if we do these things, then we will make a big difference.
madam president, first of all i would like to compliment my colleague ms hübner for bringing forward a very topical and timely oral question. the economic crisis has absolutely devastated youth employment. the statistics are frightening: youth employment stands at less than 10% in only three countries: germany, the netherlands and austria. elsewhere it is more dramatic. in the baltic for example, in ireland, in greece and in slovakia unemployment among young people stands at 30% or above, and in spain it is more than 40%. this is a brain drain that we cannot afford. we are an ageing community; we need young people, we need a workforce that is able to meet the challenges from the low-cost economies. in order to end that brain drain we need to provide opportunities for our young people. they are young, they are intelligent – many of them educated – but we must be able to keep them here. in my own country we have an economic crisis, which, thankfully we are getting out of. but the vast majority of young people educated in ireland, many of them with third-level degrees, many with master’s degrees, some of them with doctorates, have gone to australia or to canada and, in many cases, unfortunately, they will not come back. a lot of them paid tribute – or at least lip service – to the sme sector. and of course this is a vital component which, in my country accounts for 60% of jobs. but i fully concur with my colleague seán kelly: if you are introducing schemes make them flexible, and in the name of heaven do not strangle them with bureaucracy and red tape. too many excellent programmes and schemes coming from europe have died the death because of a lack of flexibility and because of red tape.
madam president, in his statement at the informal council meeting last month, president barroso introduced the concept of action teams that would develop plans at a local level to alleviate youth unemployment. the action teams are to be established in the eight worst member states, which includes ireland of course, on a pilot basis and would explore ways of using the funding that could be reprogrammed from the social and regional funds of that member state for projects to alleviate youth unemployment. we cannot afford cuts to current worthy structural fund projects in order to introduce new programmes. we need additional funding streams to help tackle this problem. we absolutely need specific additional measures and a growth-friendly economic governance structure to help ease the burden of youth unemployment and to ensure that the next generation is not unduly burdened by this crisis, and that young people have access to education, training and employment.
in writing. – níl aon amhras ach gur dea-mholadh é breis maoinithe a leithdháileadh ar iarrachtaí chun dul i ngleic le dífhostaíocht na n-óg. is í an deacracht is mó a bhíonn ag gnóthais bheaga ná teacht ar fhoinsí creidmheasa, agus tá duine óg amháin as gach cúigear san ae dífhostaithe. bheadh suim agam, áfach, freagra an choimisiúin ar an gceist maidir leis an eur 82 billiún atá fós le leithdháileadh ar na cistí struchtúracha agus conas mar a thángthas ar an uimhir sin a chloisteáil. ba é an tuiscint a bhí ann ná go raibh na cistí struchtúracha ar fad don tréimhse 2007-2013 leithdháilte cheana ar na ballstáit agus ar sprioc-chláir áirithe, agus is cúis iontais mar sin í go bhfuil airgead fós ann le tabhairt amach. is minic a dhéanann gnóthais bheaga agus grúpaí áitiúla agus réigiúnacha teagmháil liom maidir le maoiniú a fháil ó na cistí struchtúracha do thionscadail fhiúntacha. i bhformhór na gcásanna is é an freagra a thugann na húdaráis ná go bhfuil an t-airgead ar fad imithe. ní mór a mhíniú i gceart cad as a dtagann an eur 82 billiún sin agus cén faith go bhfuiltear ag diúltú glan do thionscadail fiúntacha a bhfuil an cumas acu fostaíocht a ghiniúint.
each month this parliament discusses many resolutions and conducts urgent debates about human and fundamental rights. as a parliament, we rightly give great importance to freedom of religion and faith in these discussions. religion is a personal choice which must be respected by all eu member states. religion plays a central role in international affairs, and the holy see offers a window to the rest of the world. this is one of the many reasons why each eu member state, and indeed each eea country, has diplomatic relations with the holy see. in this context it would be remiss of me not to raise the recent decision by my government to withdraw ireland’s resident ambassador to the holy see, where we have had a presence since 1929. i strongly believe that this is an ill-judged, wrong and improper decision by any objective test of international diplomacy. i call on the irish government, and particularly our tánaiste and minister for foreign affairs, immediately to reverse this decision which is opposed by the vast majority of our citizens.
mr president, ancient greece is known as the birthplace of democracy. modern greece is the graveyard of any semblance of real, genuine democracy and the site of the resurrection of colonialism within europe. an unelected banker and a coalition government that commands the support of only 30% of the population are imposing brutal savagery on the greek people. the very poorest are now in the crosshairs of the ‘troika’, with the monthly minimum wage cut to eur 430 for young people and eur 600 for others – all of this so that the vampire bondholders can continue to feast on the blood of the people. the greek workers should build a movement for an indefinite general strike and workplace occupations to bring down the government and kick out the troika, and for a government of workers and poor, where the economy can be democratically planned to meet the needs of ordinary people, not the bankers. the greek people are not alone. what they face is a more extreme version of what the irish people face, as do the portuguese people, the italian people, the spanish people, and increasingly what people right across europe are facing. a united movement is needed against austerity, against the troika, against the capitalist eu and for a socialist confederation of europe.
author. − mr president, the main purpose of this debate is to trigger an exchange of views in plenary regarding the powers of parliament and the council as a result of the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty provides additional powers in the area of fisheries to the european parliament under article 43(2), and the establishment of long-term multiannual plans is a core pillar of the reform of the common fisheries policy. we must find a solution together with the council for all future management plans. in relation to horse mackerel, the management plan for horse mackerel is based on the implementation plan agreed by the commission at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development. at the summit the commission agreed to maintain or to restore the stock to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield. the subsequent proposal by the commission was drafted in close cooperation with the pelagic rac, which had originally put forward a proposal. egg surveys for horse mackerel have been conducted every three years since 1977. however, the data collected was insufficient to allow scientists to make a full assessment of the health of the stock. the proposed management plan addresses these difficulties by establishing a formula for vessels in the horse mackerel fishery known as the harvest control rule. this rule provides a mechanism for calculating an additional ceiling of maximum allowable landings of horse mackerel harvested from the defined area. the plan was expected to come into operation in 2009 but was delayed by the adoption of the lisbon treaty. in november 2010 parliament adopted my report by an overwhelming majority: 651 in favour and 15 against. there were two principal issues which proved to be contentious when parliament reviewed the dossier in 2010. parliament overturned a previous decision to split the stock into two zones, separating area 8c located in the bay of biscay. it was correct to do so, as the scientific advice is clear on this matter: this is one stock which covers the entire geographical area. so as a compromise an amendment was adopted which states that the plan shall be implemented, taking into account artisanal fisheries and historical rights. this amendment was acceptable to the council at the time and to the pelagic rac. the other contentious issue referred to the harvest control rule. in 2010 i met with representatives of the belgian presidency prior to the adoption of the report by the committee on fisheries. the presidency suggested a proposal which provided the council with a degree of flexibility in terms of the total removable amount when setting the total allowable catch in relation to the harvest control rule. the proposal put forward by the belgian presidency was subsequently adopted by this parliament. so there are varying views between parliament and council on the harvest control rule. however, the legal advice from our services is very clear. multiannual plans are a fundamental and core aspect of the fisheries conservation tool provided for under eu law, and must be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure via article 43(2). regrettably the council is yet to adopt the first reading. however, i understand that the danish presidency is currently pursuing a proposal put forward by their predecessors before christmas. the delay has forced the committee to raise this matter in frustration in plenary, and hopefully progress can be made. i appreciate that all parties are working together in good faith in an effort to progress on this important dossier. in recent weeks informal contacts have commenced once more with the council, which i welcome. i hope that all three institutions will take a pragmatic and a sensible attitude going forward. i believe that this will enable us hopefully to have trialogues and a second reading. i shall do all possible, in conjunction with the shadow rapporteurs, the fisheries committee, the commission and the council, to reach a satisfactory conclusion which may not necessarily – and i repeat that, may not necessarily – create a precedent for other management plans. can i now don for one minute my irish cap, as i have dealt with my position on fisheries? i want to refer to the haddock quota. i take the opportunity to raise an extremely important matter which has emanated from the december council meeting where the ministers agreed to a 200% increase in the haddock quota in area 6a off the north-west. there has been an explosion of haddock, so annex 3 to the council conclusions calls on the commission by emergency measures to adopt the necessary catch composition requirement by mid-february to allow the fishermen to avail themselves of an increased haddock quota. it appears, however, that trawling will be the only fishing gear that may be used, and many of the small in-shore and small island and coastal vessels use gillnets which are more environmentally-friendly than any other type of gear. i therefore appeal to the commissioner to use her influence to ensure that gillnets will be permitted under the emergency measure. otherwise an amendment to the technical conservation measures regulation will be needed which will have to go through the co-decision procedures. finally, i refer to the concept of regionalisation. measures such as the approval of gillnets are a prime example for regionalisation. these decisions must in future be taken at local level and not national level. in relation to the other matter, i confirm that we will work closely together to try and move on within the next number of weeks or months.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ceist don choimisiún. an bhfuil an coimisinéir réidh lena aithint go bhfuil níos mó i gceist leis an gcomhbheartas iascaigh (cfp) ná éisc a ghabháil, ach gur féidir leis an cfp cur leis an saol socheacnamaíoch i gcomhphobail chósta ó thaobh na forbartha áitiúla de agus i dtaca le cruthú jabanna, díreach agus indíreach, san earnáil. mar shampla, tá formhór an tionscail iascaireachta in éirinn suite thart timpeall an chósta i gcomhphobail iargúlta nach mbíonn aon tionscal eile iontu de ghnáth; in áiteanna, mar shampla, arb í an ghaeilge an chéad teanga sa phobal agus ina bhfuil gnéithe den chultúr dúchasach – mar cheol, damhsa, litríocht agus rudaí eile cultúrtha – fite fuaite le chéile. sin í an ghné shocheacnamaíoch a bhfuilim ag cur béime uirthi. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom a rá chomh láidir agus is féidir liom – agus tá mé ag labhairt anseo ar son na bhfeisirí éireannacha – nach féidir linn glacadh leis na tacs (gabhálacha iomlána is incheadaithe). scriosfaidís an tionscal iascaireachta agus níl aon amhras ann ach go dtarlóidh sé sin más rud é go nglacfar na tacs. ní féidir linn glacadh leo.
a uachtaráin, is léir ón díospóireacht seo ar maidin go bhfuil a lán oibre le déanamh agus go bhfuil a lán comhoibriú ag teastáil idir an pharlaimint, an chomhairle agus an coimisiún chun an cheist seo a phlé agus a thabhairt go dtí an dara léamh, mar a dúirt an coimisinéir. a luaithe a tharlaíonn sé is fearr é don mhéid éisc a bheidh san fharraige agus do ghairm bheatha na n-iascairí. freisin, molaim mo chomhghleacaí gaelach, pat ‘the cope’ gallagher, as ucht an dea-obair a dhéanann sé i gcónaí maidir leis an gceist seo. i have a few brief points to make. i agree completely with the points made regarding the need for regionalisation, the preservation of coastal areas, the gillnets to which mr gallagher referred, the danger of transferable fishing concessions (tfcs) and the absolute desirability of eliminating discards. if we can address all that ...... beidh a lán lán dul chun cinn déanta againn.
mr president, there is more to the fisheries sector than catching and processing fish: it brings numerous social, economic and cultural benefits to communities in europe. the fishing sector now includes both the coastal tourism sector and aquaculture. the opening up of our coastal towns to fishing tourism generates direct and indirect employment opportunities worth promoting. many fishing towns can be quite isolated, and by targeting coastal tourism and aquaculture, the common fisheries policy can make such communities sustainable. you can board a charter vessel to experience the thrill of sea fishing – in my constituency you can do this in cork harbour for example – and various other tours allow people to hire small boats and go out to sea themselves to fish. other tours bring people to fish off the wrecks of sunken ships. small fishing communities cannot be assessed purely in economic or catch value terms. they often have a rich cultural heritage and vibrant gastronomic, economic and literary identities. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, can i ask in future that, when you are compiling your list at the beginning of question time, you put it on the screen here so that people know exactly where they stand? in my country parliamentary question time is a very important part of parliamentary democracy. i have sat here each month to ask a question – most unsuccessfully i must say – but it should at least be up there so that we know. if people are registered there, then in future if they come in the following month, they should be given priority.
mr barnier, many small and medium-sized businesses in the service sector are increasingly falling victim to misleading business directory scams. the scams have hit businesses by masquerading as legitimate directories, then charging the unsuspecting businesses for a service they did not ask for, or willingly sign up to. of course then they are hit with bills in a very difficult economic climate for fighting this fraud. while directive 2006/114/ec concerning misleading and comparative advertising is in place, this is proving to be of little practical use to smes who are faced with threatening letters from debt collectors collecting for a service that the smes have not signed up for. can the commissioner outline what measures are in place at european union level to assist the countless smes that have been defrauded, scammed and harassed?
(opening remarks missing as microphone not switched on)... misleading business directory scams which are currently operating fraudulently within the eu. would the commissioner consider conducting an inquiry into the proliferation of these scams and their impact on smes in the service sector? i think it would be wise to do that for the benefit of all concerned.
in writing. − i very much welcome this report. i also welcome the additional clauses concerning the suspension and revision of financial compensation and the suspension of the protocol’s implementation in the event of breach of the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles, as provided for in article 9 of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. − while morocco may be entitled to participate in union programmes, and this is for the most part encouraged, the issue of the independence of western sahara should not be allowed to be forgotten in the union's negotiations.
in writing. − this report allows farmers the flexibility to proactively tackle the threat of bluetongue disease among livestock through the use of inactivated vaccines which are not limited to infected areas. farmers can now take advantage of technological advances in vaccine production to protect their stock. the disease causes intense suffering, and death, among affected animals. i welcome the fact that the number of outbreaks of bluetongue has fallen significantly across europe in recent years, due to the effective combination of vaccination and restrictions. member states can now be proactive in their approach, and have dramatically reduced the devastating impact of this disease. vaccination, together with careful surveillance, can tackle bluetongue; while there will always be other diseases to threaten eu livestock, i am delighted to see that we are finally mastering bluetongue. at present a new animal virus has spread to germany, the netherlands, france, belgium and britain, the spread of which would appear to be similar to that of bluetongue. our focus must now shift to other health threats to livestock.
in writing. − since the early 2000's, there have been several incidents of bluetongue within the eu causing significant losses and severe disruption to trade in live animals. i voted in favour of this report, which recommends the laying down of specific provisions for the control and eradication of bluetongue, including rules on the establishment of protection and surveillance zones and the use of vaccines against the disease.
in writing. − i wish to put on record my wish to see increasing competition and innovation, contributing to lower payment costs for consumers and firms and making cross-border payments as easy as domestic ones in order to strengthen the internal market and allow for an increased number of exports.
in writing. − it is essential that the court of auditors remain non-politicised and is fully committed to carrying out its duties of best auditing the eu.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for his strong work on this issue and for acting quickly to ensure that ngos, charity organisations and european citizens who rely on the deprived persons’ food programme were not left in the lurch for 2012 and 2013. when i spoke in this chamber on this issue last year i urged the european leaders to use a little common sense – if not some compassion – in relation to the continuation of this scheme. i am pleased that the scheme has been guaranteed for a further two years. however, the 13 million people who rely on this scheme for food are not going to find an alternative in two years’ time. if anything, the numbers requiring food aid will increase, given the current economic situation. this scheme must be continued in a format that will ensure that those at risk of food poverty have access to food. i understand that there are those who object on the basis of budget allocation, subsidiarity and a perceived overlap with national competence. that is all very fine, but 43 million people in the eu are at risk of food poverty. we have a scheme in place that provides food for these people. why change it because of an ideological objection? for 500 million people it represents value for money in terms of delivering actual results. we must not play politics with a scheme that improves the immediate situation for those who cannot afford to feed themselves or their families.
in writing. – during times of crisis, it is almost always those who are worst off who suffer the most. unfortunately, despite the development which has occurred in europe over the past generation or so, this is still very much the case. however this crisis is also an opportunity for europe to break with the past, and set a new precedent for both good times and bad. by prioritising the most deprived at this juncture, we can set a standard to be followed even when this crisis is overcome, and which will be adopted automatically during any time of difficulty in the future. furthermore, as an agricultural union, europe has the benefit of a great deal of quality foodstuffs, and while programmes for the distribution of these goods have existed for some years now, to the commission’s credit, they should be developed and expanded upon in the months and years ahead.
mr president, i would like to thank mr nicholson, the rapporteur, and all the shadows who worked on this. this provides answers to some member states and to the dairy farmers who have particular problems with private operators. for others there are no issues because there is a cooperative structure. i welcome this as an initiative – and might i suggest to mr nicholson that he should write the layman’s guide to codecision in agriculture. i am concerned that, when we move on to these very large dossiers, it will be much more difficult – and i think jim nicholson is nodding in agreement – to come to a good outcome, but we live in hope. the issues i want to raise today are wider than just the report that is before us – which i will be supporting – and relate to the report of december 2010 which spoke of the soft landing for the dairy sector. that report indicated that a soft landing may be not guaranteed in a number of member states. i rise on behalf of one of those member states – ireland – which has a problem in relation to this much promised soft landing. dairy farmers in ireland see a situation where their product is in demand, where europe is below quota and where they would wish to be able to produce without a penalty. i know the position from the commission on this issue, but i would ask – like other colleagues – that perhaps we need to bring a report forward from the 2014 date. we need to consider the position of those member states which are not enjoying a soft landing and where there are penalties being imposed on producers for supplying a product for which there is a market. the penalty is extremely severe, whereas europe is actually not filling its entire quota over all of the member states. the last point relates to the power of the retail sector – not for this report, but an issue that will not go away – and i know the commission will have something for us by june of this year.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir, jim nicholson, as ucht na sár-oibre atá déanta aige ar an tuarascáil seo. the crisis in the dairy sector in 2009 highlighted the severe vulnerability of this sector and clearly demonstrated that it is essential that a degree of stability and certainty is established for dairy farmers when quotas are abolished in 2015. just as my colleague ms mcguinness has already said about ireland, as we progress towards the abolition of quotas a very worrying situation is developing for dairy farmers, and the threat of a superlevy is present year on year. the commission has conceded that, in member states where milk deliveries exceed quotas, a soft landing may not be guaranteed. the milk quota for ireland and the threat of a superlevy are hampering growth opportunities for the irish agricultural sector. overall milk production in the european union is 6% under the quota, and it is an unsustainable situation that while irish dairy farmers can meet the eu quota overall, due to inflexibility they will be penalised and the potential for growth held back. agriculture is currently one of the strongest sectors in ireland, helping us out of our current economic problems, yet its potential is constrained with a one-size-fits-all policy that is not working for dairy farmers. it is clear, therefore, that there is no widespread political will to revisit the health check decisions, yet i would urge the commission to consider measures to ensure a soft landing for all member states and to consider introducing a degree of flexibility into the system for dairy farmers.
in writing. – i supported this report, which strengthens the bargaining power of dairy farmers by allowing farmers to negotiate collectively their contract terms with dairies, including the price. this report also allows us to outline once again the dire need for a soft landing for dairy farmers ahead of the lifting of milk quotas in 2015. i am calling for a flexible approach to the quotas and the application of pan-eu quotas. in the last two years ireland narrowly avoided the imposition of fines. the last thing we want to do is fine progressive dairy farmers who are planning for expansion, growth and investment post-2015. the eu as a whole was 5 % under quota in 2011; punishing productive countries simply does not make sense at a time when the eu has a milk deficit of 7 %.
mr president, throughout the discussions on the eu-morocco agreement which liberalises trade in agricultural and fisheries products, the commission has repeatedly described this as a win-win deal. can we be a little bit more precise here and say that it is a win-win deal for major european agri-business, for a few moroccan conglomerates, and particularly for the king of morocco who owns 12 000 hectares of the most fertile land and who will benefit most from this deal? it is a lose-lose deal for ordinary small farmers, for agricultural workers and fishermen in morocco and in europe. i am in favour of trade that provides development economically and socially and contributes to a rise in living standards, but in order for that to happen, the rights of working people, of small farmers and fishermen need to be protected. that does not happen in morocco. the most basic trade union rights are not respected in morocco: the right to form a trade union and the right to take strike action. agricultural workers have been dismissed in recent years for trying to form an organisation, and the result is an extremely low level of wages and a race to the bottom in workers’ wages and conditions. on top of that is the fact that morocco is an occupying power in western sahara, and this agreement will increase the profits of those who benefit from that occupation. the reality, in answer to david martin, is that there has been a substantial increase in agricultural production of 2 800% in the past few years: 60 000 tonnes of agricultural produce last year were exported from western sahara. this is owned not by ordinary people in western sahara but primarily by the king – as a recent report demonstrates – and by major multinationals. its produce is export-oriented and goes to europe. the people of western sahara have not been asked, they will not benefit from it. the agreement should be rejected.
in writing. – this report highlights concerns regarding the impact of the proposed eu-morocco agreement on the agricultural sector in the eu, and stresses the potential ramifications of future bilateral agreements between the eu and third countries. i support the committee on agriculture’s position on the proposed agreement. the rapporteur underlines other areas of concern such as child labour in the agricultural sector in morocco, poor wages for workers and environmental issues.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am honoured to be allowed to speak here today and have been looking forward very much to a focused debate on growth and employment. i hope you know that one of the main priorities of the danish presidency is implementation, to ensure that the good decisions that have been taken are carried into effect. we hope that, in this presidency, we can both take decisive steps out of the crisis by supporting responsible national economic policy, and prevent new crises. the european semester was kicked off by the annual growth survey at the end of last year, leading to the economic policy guidance to members to be adopted by the european spring council meeting. i do not have to explain to this parliament why this is important: the unemployment figures speak for themselves; the number of young people unable to find a job speaks for itself. growth is slow, as the rapporteur, mr gauzès, has already stated. there is no expectation of growth; half a percentage point is the general expectation that we have in prospect for 2012. i think it is important to focus on the five priorities set out by the commission in the annual growth survey. first, pursuing differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. second, restoring normal lending to the economy. third, promoting growth and competitiveness, for today as well as for tomorrow. fourth, tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and fifth, modernising public administration. in particular, growth-friendly consolidation and reforms that increase labour supply, productivity and competitiveness are of the utmost importance to restore confidence. and if we do not restore confidence we will never be able to fight and tackle the problem of unemployment – especially youth unemployment, which is at an historic high in many member states. i have read your report and draft resolutions with interest and taken good note of the key messages that you wish to send to the spring european council. the various concerns expressed have been confirmed here today and will be at the centre of the debate we will have. i will of course refer to the work of parliament when introducing the subject at the coming ecofin meeting on 21 february, when we will adopt council conclusions on the annual growth survey as an input to the spring european council. i think it is very important to ensure that the debate here in parliament, and the debate in the council, together shape the council’s conclusions. at national level we need, as mr gauzès’s report stresses, to pursue differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. with regard to structural reform, it is vital that all member states pursue reforms that increase the labour supply and employment – such as pension reform and labour market reform – because those reforms strengthen both public finance and growth. but, of course, a number of these reforms will have medium-term and long-term effect, and we have to focus on the short term as well. that might mean focusing on the flexibility of product markets and competition or maybe, most importantly, on the growth drivers which are essential at eu level. a more efficient eu single market, as per the service directive, is a growth driver with great potential. but we also need to combine consolidation and growth measures with green measures: for instance, a tax reform that shifts taxes away from labour towards energy consumption and pollution, thus having the potential to stimulate economic activity while greening the economy. i shall, if i may, conclude my speech with the issue of unemployment, because that issue must be at the centre of our debate. unemployment is one of the most devastating consequences of any economic crisis because it has such a direct effect on citizens, and youth in particular. i welcome the emphasis ms cornelissen put on tackling youth unemployment in her report. i think it is very much in line with the commission’s ‘youth on the move’ initiative and its proposal to use available eu funds to fund training and work experience, which were mentioned in the conclusions of the european council meeting in january. it is obvious that we owe it to our young people to ensure they can enter the work force – and the labour market – by getting a job and by getting training. a key word is implementation. implementation is what is needed, both to show that europe works – and is at work – and also to restore confidence in political leadership in the european union. you are all well aware of the european semester, the ‘six-pack’ and now the ‘two-pack’ that we have ahead of us. i hope that we can work swiftly, and in a focussed way, on getting these things passed in cooperation. the european parliament and the danish presidency have a number of important things to do not only in terms of implementation, but also in terms of making sure that we get things done. i have come here to take on board your remarks and the debate ahead of the european council, and therefore i will rest my case with these few comments. i am very much looking forward to hearing your views and comments, and thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to be here today to discuss with the members of the european parliament the commission’s 2012 annual growth survey. i am responding to the three rapporteurs who spoke before me and i will start with the gauzès report and take the cornelissen and berès reports afterwards. i am very pleased to see from the report by mr gauzès that there is considerable convergence of views between what the commission has proposed in terms of key policy priorities for 2012 and the thinking in this house. such a broad convergence of views is an important signal particularly in times of crisis. and, of course, the severe crisis of confidence that we are still facing is the background to the horizontal policy priorities that the commission has proposed in this annual growth survey. at the heart of this crisis of confidence lies the potential negative feedback loop between financial sector vulnerabilities, shaky confidence in sovereign debt sustainability, and weak growth prospects. continued fiscal consolidation will be important. however, without stronger growth prospects, it will be much more difficult to put public debt on a sustainable path. growth-friendly consolidation and employment-friendly growth are therefore essential elements of our crisis response, which will be important for the guidance of member states’ economic and employment policies, to be issued on 1 march. to achieve all this, the commission and the european union are pursuing a number of avenues that together form a comprehensive strategy. it includes a solid solution for greece, strengthening the financial sector, effective financial backstops, and stronger economic governance. on all these elements we have made considerable progress in recent months. in the area of economic governance the role this house has played has been particularly significant. strengthening growth prospects has become ever more crucial for breaking the vicious circle that threatens macro-financial stability and the recovery at the same time. this is one of the key messages of the 2012 annual growth survey. it has therefore set out the five priorities that you know and which your draft report endorses. the ags has set out in concrete terms how the single market, the eu budget and specific eu initiatives, including project bonds, can contribute to bolstering our growth potential. wherever accelerated treatment of legislative proposals is involved, we certainly count on the support of the european parliament. let me just mention the proposed unitary eu patent, agreement on the revision of the roaming regulation, the pending revisions of the directives on annual accounts, and increasing co-financing rates for programme countries. these and other pending initiatives would certainly go a long way in boosting growth. as stated clearly in the ags, the commission considers that mobilising employment for growth, employment of young people and protecting the vulnerable are key priorities. our recent initiatives on youth unemployment and sme financing are fully in line with these priorities. while structural reforms achieve their ultimate objective only over the medium to long term, a firm and committed implementation certainly sends out a strong signal to the market and contributes to building confidence already today. there is an urgent need for full implementation of the measures already launched during the first european semester. i am glad that the european parliament supports this message from the commission. this is crucial. strong implementation of structural reforms is all the more important today as the scope for macroeconomic stimulus, in particular fiscal stimulus, is very limited at this point in time. that is the reason why differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and employment-friendly growth are at the core of our strategy. there is no doubt that this is a difficult path. but if we show discipline and resolve and strong reform implementation we will be able to turn around the potential negative spiral and work to propel ourselves forward and pull ourselves up. this is the path that the annual growth survey has charted for the 2012 european semester. let me thank the european parliament once more for showing the resolve europe needs in the role it has played so far in strengthening the union’s economic governance. let me turn to the cornelissen report – which i warmly welcome – concerning the employment and social aspects of the annual growth survey for 2012. i agree with your analysis and the key message that it contains. firstly i strongly support your call to the european council to integrate, in its policy guidance, messages on the need to increase ambition to achieve the eu2020 objectives and to support sustainable job creation with investment and tax reform. you stress that budgetary, growth and employment measures need to be taken together as they are all interdependent; i fully agree with that. the focus needs to be simultaneously on measures having short-term effect and on the ones advancing towards the right growth model in the medium term, which is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the guidance on member states’ employment and economic policies should reflect this balanced approach. secondly, i am pleased in particular to note your call for the european council to tackle youth employment as a priority and for the member states to develop comprehensive strategies for young people who are not in employment, education or training. in december, as you know, the commission adopted a youth opportunities initiative to prompt action in fighting youth unemployment. the initiative lays special emphasis on making greater use of the structural funds, an approach endorsed by the informal european council meeting on 30 january. action teams will this month visit the eight member states with the highest youth unemployment rates – namely spain, greece, ireland, italy, latvia, lithuania, portugal and slovakia – to identify the necessary elements for youth employment plans. in particular they will look at how to step up the use of the structural funds and especially the european social fund, but also how to make best use of other eu tools such as eures. in my view this working method can also be seen as an embryo of an excessive unemployment procedure that would deploy and coordinate the national- and eu-level instruments in a more effective way. thirdly, i fully support your call to tackle poverty and social exclusion by laying the emphasis on groups with no – or limited – links to the labour market. the annual growth survey also sends strong policy messages to the european council to make social protection systems more effective and implement active inclusion strategies that entail labour market activation measures. lastly, i support your call for greater democratic legitimacy, accountability and ownership. ownership of europe 2020 in the context of the new governance is crucial for consensus, and consensus is critical to the strategy’s success. that is why parliament needs to make its voice heard in the process. i therefore appreciate the effort the house has made to adopt these reports in time to contribute to the discussion ahead of the spring european council. i would now turn to the berès report and thank ms berès. i welcome your decision to approve the commission proposal to carry over the guidelines for the member states’ employment policies – being a core element of the european employment strategy – and leave them unchanged for 2012. the present employment guidelines meet their purpose in today’s very difficult economic environment. they are broad and comprehensive enough to cover the priorities identified in this year’s annual growth survey and in particular the need for growth-enhancing reforms and job-rich recovery. they also provide the policy framework needed to address some of the social consequences of the economic crisis. the commission believes that the emphasis must now be on implementing the employment guidelines and pushing ahead with the growth-enhancing reforms they advocate. they provide the overall policy framework for any country-specific recommendation from the council to the member states under article 148 of the treaty.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the first debate here this morning on the european council meeting a very dark picture was painted of a europe that is blindly marching to the drumbeat of austerity and more austerity without any real hope or a convincing vision for the future. as my colleague sylvie goulard said, we are trying to impose stability by force. up to now the buzz-word in the eu has been solidarity. right now, solidarity means mutual self-interest, because a failure by any one country will have a massive and incalculable impact on all of us. so as we try to grapple with the unthinkable, sometimes it is easy to forget the day-to-day and to overlook the steps that we must take today and tomorrow to ensure that we achieve the targets set in the eu 2020 strategy. this very good report by ms cornelissen provides us with a roadmap from the perspective of employment and social affairs. indeed, these are words we do not hear often enough – employment and social affairs – because they are words that directly impact on the lives of citizens. there are some matters in this report that may cause certain problems for members of this house, such as the financial transaction tax. i support the ftt, but it should be on a europe-wide basis and ideally it should be global. another issue which may cause concern and has been alluded to by many members here this morning is the call for member states with a current account surplus to contribute to a reduction in macroeconomic imbalances by increasing internal demand. part of the problem here is that we tend to be very black and white, and we tend to define deficit as bad and surplus as good. but the reality is they both cause imbalances, and while there is a difference, we cannot concentrate on one aspect only. in the last debate, the danish presidency said that growth and employment were top priority; they also said that austerity is top priority. again and again that is the message we are getting, but this report helps to redress the balance. finally, this morning we heard many criticisms of the troika. paragraph 48 proposes a solution: that the ilo should be involved in the financial assistance programmes. i hope both the council and the commission will take that suggestion on board.
mr president, i feel that it is necessary to apply the austerity programmes in member states in order to bring the public finances under control. in my own experience, in the 1980s in ireland, once we got the public finances under control, we experienced recovery after some time. the problem is that, if the patient (in the form of the member state) is to survive the austerity programme, some sort of new incentive has to be given. i think it is time we stopped just looking at the stick and started looking at the carrot. greece represents about 2% of the gdp of the euro area and much less than that of the eu. are we going to allow this to bring the whole euro area down? it is time to start thinking of marshall aid-type assistance to those countries that are prepared to suffer. no matter what they did in the past, we will all gain from this, and there will be a return and a dividend if we have more of the carrot as well as the stick.
mr president, i certainly welcome this report. i commend the rapporteur for the huge amount of hard work put into it and for the very practical approach which allows this scheme – at long last – to come into operation as soon as possible. i think it is an excellent scheme. it benefits over 18 million of the most needy people in 19 member states. the programme is 100% eu-funded and the amount – eur 500 million – is small in the context of the overall common agricultural policy budget. there is no state financing involved, and i welcome this. the council agreement of 15 december 2011 allowed for the implementation of the scheme over the period 2012-2013. the initiative was blocked, as has been said already, for far too long by seven member states. i welcome the compromise that has been negotiated by the council, but there is no guarantee that the economic situation will have improved by 2013. i welcome the clarification by the commission today that it will use its initiative in terms of putting a further scheme in place.
mr president, i voted for this report but i have been disappointed at how we got to this position and indeed about what the future holds. i think it says a great deal when we see that the council decision is to phase out the current scheme after 2013. unfortunately parliament itself had no real margin for any substantial renegotiation with the council, because of the urgency of the situation and because of the fact, of course, that this proposal has been blocked for two years. i have to say that it is very worrying when we look at social issues, which i believe have a european dimension: issues like the distribution of food products, the continuation of the crisis derogation for the eaggf, the microfinance programme, etc. it is very worrying when we see that all three met significant resistance in the council. we are told that is a matter for the member states. well, in ireland whenever we are having a debate about social policy we often use the phrase about the difference between boston and berlin. if you ask me that difference is getting less and less every day.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo agus gabhaim buíochas leis an bhfeisire jim nicholson as ucht na hoibre déine atá déanta aige ar an tuarascáil. ach tá i bhfad níos mó oibre le déanamh chun praghsanna cothroma a fháil d’fheirmeoirí déiríochta. tá an tuarascáil seo tábhachtach mar is é an chéad chéim chun cumhacht margaíochta feirmeoirí a neartú agus na rialacha a athrú chun ligean do na feirmeoirí téarmaí conartha a shocrú do na déirithe i ndáil le rudaí éagsúla agus mór mór ó thaobh na bprahsanna. faoi láthair, b’éigean d'fheirmeoirí déileáil le comhlachtaí an-chumhachtach ar fad atá ag iarraidh táirge den chéad scoth a fháil ar an láimh amháin ach ar an láimh eile praghas níos ísle a thabhairt. b’éigean d’fheirmeoirí chomh maith creidmheas saor a thabhairt agus ag an am céanna rótharraingt a dhéanamh ar chuntais phearsanta bainc. ó thaobh déanamh cuóta bainne, caithfimid i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh chun tuirlingt bhog a fháil chun éalú ón méid brú a bheidh ar na feirmeoirí nuair a tharlaíonn an polasaí nua seo.
mr president, i supported this report by jim nicholson on the milk sector and i agree strongly with the fact that producers need much greater bargaining power. they are the weakest link in the chain: they are price takers, not price makers. given that in 2015 there will be a major shift with the ending of quotas, we need to ensure a more stable future for the sector and, in this context, the bargaining power of producers is absolutely crucial. i also believe that the introduction of voluntary contracts is certainly preferable to introducing mandatory ones. finally, a soft landing for the ending of milk quotas is essential. it is worth noting that overall production in the eu is 6% below the quota but in some countries – like my own – that is not the case. in this context it makes sense to find an overall eu solution, and that certainly should include some form of soft landing so that dairy farmers in all eu countries can look to a sustainable future.
mr president, i think this resolution on stability bonds is a realistic and pragmatic approach to ensuring that we have a firewall to prevent future crises. i support the call for a european redemption pact. while it has its limitations, at least it is an effort to deal with the serious overhang of debt which is smothering recovery in many countries, including my own. yes, in ireland we must deal with our deficit, but guaranteeing our banks in order to prevent contagion in other eu banks has meant that our debt-to-gnp ratio will increase to at least 147%, so without a redemption pact or some other mechanism it simply means that irish citizens will be unable to pay for casino banking in our own and other countries. it is interesting that this mountain of debt was not just our own choice. mario draghi, a man for whom i have a great deal of respect, refuses to publish a letter sent by his predecessor jean-claude trichet to our finance minister on the bailout, and i am just wondering why. will this show us the real face of the ecb, and what responsibility might this letter put on the ecb? so i am calling on mario draghi and the ecb to reverse this decision so that european citizens can see how europe really works.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report in my capacity as the chairman of the european parliament’s delegation to switzerland, iceland, norway and the eea joint parliamentary committee. the arrangement provides for the participation by the schengen associated states in the work of the committees which assist the commission in the exercise of its executive powers as regards the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. − i welcome this report. what we need to focus on now is implementation of the guidelines. we need to ensure effective governance of the employment and social policies by the member states. member states should involve stakeholders, the social partners and parliamentary bodies in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the national reform programmes. above all, we need to focus on the implementation of the guidelines in order to ensure a coordinated strategy for employment which will promote a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce. i am confident that we will achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion throughout the eu. these employment guidelines will remain unchanged until 2014 and their updating should remain strictly limited within the three years. however we must ensure that the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines are the main focus of the annual review of the europe 2020 strategy
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the development of a coordinated strategy for employment and the promotion of skilled and trained workers across the eu. in the context of the financial crisis, it is important that a harmonised approach is adopted in order to address employment policies in the eu.
in writing. − i supported the recommendation because it guarantees the continuation of the food aid programme, which currently provides food to more than 18 million people across europe, for 2012 and 2013. however i am opposed to the position of the conservative german and french governments to discontinue this programme after 2013. the commission should come forward with proposals that comply with the court of justice’s april 2011 ruling to allow the continuation of the programme from 2014 onwards. i welcome the irish government’s support for this stance. the subsidiarity argument should not be used to suggest there is no role for measures such as a food aid programme at european level. in reality, we need a much stronger social dimension to europe and a greater emphasis on growth and jobs to ensure that citizens do not have to depend on food aid to help them make ends meet. we can only consider ending this type of programme when there is no demand from the public for it.
in writing. − the food distribution programme for the most deprived persons in the union provides food aid for nearly 18 million europeans with an aid package of eur 500 million per year. i voted in favour of this report and welcome this important step towards assisting the 40 million people currently living in poverty in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it provides solutions for farmers in some member states that face particular problems in the dairy sector. while this report does not look at the ‘soft-landing’ issue, i would ask the commission to consider the position of member states, where penalties are being imposed on producers for supplying a product for which there is a market. the penalty is extremely severe, despite the fact that the eu is not filling its entire quota over all of the member states.
in writing. − i welcome the emphasis in this report on the idea of a european youth guarantee, ensuring that within four months of leaving education or becoming unemployed, every young person is offered a job, an apprenticeship, additional training or combined work and training. the preliminary results of a recent study by the european foundation in dublin indicated that 13 % of all 15-24 year olds (7.5 million people) were not in employment, education or training (neets) in 2010. this costs all our societies eur 100 billion annually in lost earnings and social transfers – 1 % of our combined gdp (and 2.1 % of irish gdp). getting just 10 % of these 7.5 million young people into the labour market would save more than eur 10 billion annually. the social democratic parties of austria and finland have led the way by introducing a youth guarantee. their measures are producing results. the forthcoming march european summit should now make progress towards a european youth guarantee, using esf funding. if we are to make our way out of the economic crisis, job creation, particularly for young people, has to be our first priority, and a european youth guarantee clearly has a role to play here.
in writing. − since 2008, unemployment has increased significantly in the european union with 23 million people unemployed across the member states, corresponding to 10 % of the working age population. this report places particular emphasis on the effects of austerity measures on the labour market and youth unemployment in particular, which across the eu stands at more than 5.5 million young people or about 22.3 % of the entire youth workforce, according to the latest statistics. i support this report.
in writing. − this report cites ‘growth-friendly tax policies in the member states, better tax coordination and where appropriate harmonisation in the eu’ as a means by which sustainable reform can be achieved across eu member states. since taxation is highlighted in this report and tax policy is a matter for member state governments, i abstained from voting on this report.
mr president, i would like to speak about my amendment on kazakhstan, where the oil workers engaged in a long, heroic struggle for better working conditions and for the right to have an independent trade union, have been met by massive repression by the nazarbayev regime. this repression culminated on 16 december 2011 with a crackdown on a peaceful demonstration, with many protesters killed. video evidence clearly shows state forces basically mowing down peaceful protesters. however, outrageously, the general prosecutor’s report seeks to place the blame on the protestors and then use this as a pretext to arrest the leaders of the political opposition, human rights defenders and journalists, including vladimir kozlov and vadim kuramshin, who all face potentially long prison sentences. i would like also to draw the attention of the house to the fact that ainur kurmanov and esenbek ukteshbayev, leaders of an independent trade union who have spoken at meetings in this house about kazakhstan and who have been out of kazakhstan since october 2011, have now contacted me with information that they may be abducted or arrested and brought to kazakhstan to be charged with causing the killings in zhanaozen. we have to demand that a genuinely independent international inquiry is set up into the events of zhanaozen.
mr president, thank you for your kind words. indeed, i am delighted to make my maiden speech here in the european parliament on the subject of human rights. the protection and the promotion of human rights are fundamental features of the european union's moral and legal framework. the eu needs to agree common positions so as to channel our collective voice in strong defence of human rights. in this regard, i welcome the arab spring, and i would condemn in the strongest possible terms the ongoing and appalling repression by the syrian regime of its population, as described in the previous debate. as an incoming member of the european parliament’s palestine delegation, i am also particularly concerned about human rights violations in gaza, east jerusalem and the west bank. the eu must adopt a strong common position on the follow-up to the fact-finding mission to gaza, and i call on baroness ashton to ensure that the recommendations of this mission are implemented in full, and to ensure that there is full accountability for all violations of international law, regardless of the alleged perpetrators. i want to welcome the inclusion of burma as an eu priority for the 19th session of the unhcr, and commend the work of the special rapporteur on human rights in burma. i look forward to the transition to democracy in that country. if we are to challenge third countries on human rights, we must ensure that human rights are fully protected in our own domestic policies. eu member states should lead by example, and, as has already been alluded to, we need to ratify all international human rights instruments that we have helped establish, particularly in relation to migrants in our own countries. finally, i want to welcome the commitment to prioritising lgbt rights, and i wish the delegation from the european parliament well with their mandate.
a uachtaráin, cosúil leis na cainteoirí eile, molaim an tuasal vaughan as ucht na dea-oibre a rinne sé san obair chuíosach dheacair seo. tá jab maith déanta aige. i think in times of austerity it is natural that the public at large, and particularly the media, look at politicians and the overall expenditure associated with their activities. this in itself is not a bad thing, and it is good for us to look at our own situation. for that reason i see no reason why we should not have an external audit of our activities. this would certainly be good in the overall context, but it would also make it easier for us to defend whatever expenditure we have, and certainly it might point out areas that we ourselves would think are perfect but may lead to savings without impacting on the overall effect. people have also mentioned the single seat and so forth. this is certainly an issue. having us here in strasbourg every month is something that many citizens do not even realise is happening; secondly, it does not make a lot of sense to them. so there is a need for a discussion on that, and maybe a need to come to an arrangement with the french and possibly with strasbourg regarding how matters could be looked at and improved in terms of efficiencies. also ancillary committees – the committee of the regions is definitely something that needs to be looked at in terms of its size, how often it meets and so forth. so an external audit is something i would welcome. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, certainly it is up to members to do what they will in that regard, but i think that the point i made regarding having an external audit is the best and probably the most objective way to look at it. it has been said that we do not see the mote in our own eye, and for that reason i think it would be better to look at it not in a personalised manner but in an objective, overall manner. that might lead us to take corrective action, if such was necessary.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, over the past two years we have heard many debates in this parliament about keeping the rules, whether it is the six-pack or the two-pack or the fiscal compact. when it comes to money and budgets, we are asked to keep the rules. yet when it comes to the rights of persons with a disability or to the petitioners, like the european blind union, up to now we have been told that soft law recommendations and voluntary licences are a better option. commissioner barnier, you spoke of cooperation, of identifying the best solutions, and you have said you are open to constructive discussions. yet the commission is not facilitating the access of blind eu citizens, and this is hardly honouring those fine words. what i hear from you right now is: yes, but not yet – we need further negotiations. in my own country – ireland – the national council for the blind tells us that millions of blind eu citizens face a book famine, in which only a low percentage of books are converted to an accessible format that they can read. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the work of the european blind union and the parliament report on unlocking the cultural and creative industries, i believe, commissioner, provide you and the commission with a roadmap. i think all we are doing tonight is asking you to take that pathway.
mr president, this oral question highlights once again the vice-like grip copyright holders have on books and information, even in such an innocuous instance as this. blind and print-disabled persons have the same right of access to books as everyone else. however, their rights and their reality are completely at odds with one another, as these people continue to live through what is being termed a ‘book famine’. the european blind union, the european dyslexia association, the dyslexia association of ireland, the committee on petitions of the european parliament and even parliament itself, have all called on the commission and the council to create binding legislation through the world intellectual property organisation, yet the commission and council continue to walk the path of soft legislation, despite expert advice and guidance from blind persons’ organisations arguing to the contrary. put simply, this legislation would allow organisations to make an adapted copy of books and therefore make more books available to blind and print-disabled persons. that would be an intrinsic good. the need for this legislation is abundantly clear to me, as it should be to everyone in this house.
mr president, in the context of the potential threat to eu citizens’ rights to data protection and privacy from third countries, i am particularly concerned at the provisions foreseen in the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement with regard to international cooperation, which compound the serious questions that the treaty raises. i intend to pursue this matter with the commission and hope that the commissioner will enlighten us on the implementing measures necessitated by these international cooperation provisions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in my opinion this convention must not be concluded until it is explicitly excluded that goods from illegal israeli settlements could benefit from preferential access to eu markets as a result. at the moment it does open the door for that potentially to happen, which is not only wrong but it is also in contrast to official eu policy. the settlements are a major tool of the occupation of the palestinian territories. according to official israeli land records, one third of the land within the settlements is privately held by palestinians. over 600 of the palestinian-owned structures which were dismantled last year were located within the settlements and last year five palestinians, including two children, were killed, and over a thousand people were injured, by settlers or by security forces in incidents related to the settlements. these settlements must be dismantled immediately. instead of opening a loophole for these goods to come into the eu market with preferential access, in reality the door to the eu market should be shut altogether.
in writing. – i welcome this new convention which now provides one single and simplified instrument for pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. it is aimed at aiding the process towards democracy unleashed by the arab spring. however, a very serious problem exists whereby products manufactured by israeli producers in the occupied palestinian territories (opt) are exported under the terms of the eu-israel association agreement. the eu’s position is clear; the european council has concluded that settlements are illegal under international law, constitute an obstacle to peace and threaten to make a two-state solution impossible. indeed, the european court of justice (ecj) has specifically ruled in the brita case that that the application of the eu-israel association agreement to goods manufactured in palestine is illegal. moreover, the eu heads of mission have reportedly recently recommended in their report that products manufactured in settlements should not benefit from preferential treatment under the eu-israel association agreement. the commission must revise and upgrade the eu-israel technical arrangement to a legally-binding agreement which ensures that the new convention does not perpetuate or create a situation which facilitates or encourages the abuse of the rules of origin.
mr president, i understand that the discussions on this are ongoing in coreper and in the council and that there is no agreement between the council and parliament on this matter yet. as some of these issues are contentious, the four fine gael meps in the epp abstained on both the roll-call votes because it is not clear how these contentious matters are to be resolved. i wish that to be a matter of record.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith agus bhí díospóireacht an-mhaith againn sa pharlaimint dhá lá ó shin. gan dabht ar bith tá fadhb mhór againn – ní hamháin san eoraip ach ar fud an domhain go léir – mar tá an t-éileamh ar iasc a ithe ag ardú agus, ina lán de na stoic, tá an stoc féin ag ísliú. dá bhrí sin caithfimid a bheith an-chúramach, agus feictear é sin sa tuarascáil seo. réiteach na faidhbe, tá sé le fáil in aquaculture (dobharshaothrú) agus ba mhaith liom go mbeadh i bhfad níos mó béime air sin amach anseo. tá mo thír féin ag smaoineamh ar dhobharshaothrú a chruthú, agus is maith sin. ach don chéad mff (creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil) eile ba chóir dúinn airgead a chur i láthair chun dobharshaothrú a chur ar bun timpeall na heorpa ar fad agus cabhróidh sé sin go mór leis an bhfadhb atá againn faoi láthair.
mr president, with a hundred thousand people out on the streets again, it is clear that the movement of the enraged in russia is no longer directed against the fraudulent parliamentary elections alone. it is a prelude to the mobilisations that will follow the re-election of putin. it is increasingly a movement that is fed up and disgusted with the whole political elite and with the thieves, the oligarchs that have enriched themselves at the expense of russian workers, russian pensioners and russian youth. the movement is a demonstration of massive people-power in action, but the current leadership – a combination of failed neoliberal politicians and right-wing nationalist demagogues – does not offer any way forward in the struggle for democratic rights and freedoms. today, when corrupt politicians dominate the electoral arena, my sister party in russia does not recognise the legitimacy of the presidential elections. i support their call for an active boycott, turning the current protests into a new, genuine socialist force that can unite all working people, regardless of ethnic background, religious belief or sexual orientation, to challenge the rule of putin, the oligarchs and the pro-kremlin lackeys.
mr president, may this year will mark the third anniversary of the end of the bloody civil war in sri lanka. tens of thousands of innocent tamils were slaughtered, particularly at the end of the war when they were caged into a tiny area before being massacred by the army. at the end of last year the lessons learnt and reconciliation commission published its report. this commission was set up from the very start to be biased. it is not a serious attempt at all to deal with the very serious allegations of war crimes against the rajapakse regime. it is now time for a genuine independent inquiry into the events. this inquiry will have to include representatives of all communities within sri lanka and trade unions in the country. i have been denied a visa to visit sri lanka as part of a delegation of the european united left group in this parliament because on several occasions i have spoken out against the actions of the sri lankan government, against the actions of the army and in favour of the rights of the tamil people. i demand that the sri lankan government revokes this decision and allow meps who are critical of its policy to visit the country and see the situation on the ground for themselves.
mr president, according to a former tiananmen square student leader, chai ling, over 35 000 forced and coerced abortions are taking place today in china. ling calls the brutal enforcement of the one-child policy the largest crime against humanity. he says it is as if the tiananmen square massacre had taken place every hour, and it is an unending holocaust that has gone on for thirty years. coerced abortion has been exposed by the unhcr in the context of refugees and displaced populations. up to one hundred million girls who would have otherwise been expected to be alive are missing from various populations – mostly in asia – as a result of sex-selective abortions, infanticide or neglect. why is this not highlighted more by the unhcr? why is this not highlighted more by this house? if these were males, they would be alive. gender-based abortion – the murder of women because they are females – is totally unacceptable and must be addressed by the un and the european parliament.
mr president, one of the hallmarks of an open and inclusive democratic society is that it treats all citizens equally, and particularly those with disabilities. in that regard, the european union and member states have made a lot of progress. indeed, in relation to the european union there is a blind friend of mine up in the booth here who has a job as an interpreter and is doing a very good job indeed. at the same time, we cannot be complacent. there is room for major improvement, particularly in certain areas. where the visually impaired are concerned, their not having access to 95% of published books is simply a figure that we cannot be pleased with. we certainly need to do all we can to increase accessibility to books for blind people. this is a step in the right direction. we really have to work harder to ensure that all people have access to all books.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote as the report did not specify that it would cut the generous expenses, salaries and other privileges of meps. i call for all meps to be on a salary not in excess of that of a skilled worker. any expenses incurred in the exercise of their duties should be fully vouched for and be published on a regular basis. due to the unnecessary financial and environmental cost, i supported the amendment calling for a single seat for the european parliament; however i believe that this must occur together with investment in public works in the city of strasbourg to ensure that there is no loss in jobs in the strasbourg region. i voted in favour of the amendment calling for a cut in the state funding of eu political parties and foundations. i believe that political parties, including those at an international level, should be primarily funded ‘from the bottom up’ through contributions from their members and non-corporate supporters.
in writing. − the delay by the council in adopting its first reading has forced the committee on fisheries, in frustration, to raise the matter in plenary. as rapporteur for this file, i shall do all possible in conjunction with the shadow rapporteurs, the committee on fisheries, the commission and the council to reach a satisfactory conclusion, which may not necessarily create a precedent for other management plans.
in writing. − i support this resolution because of the serious concerns, including those voiced by constituents of mine in ireland, about the current hungarian government’s commitment to the exercise of democracy, the rule of law, checks and balances, the protection of human and social rights, and equality and non-discrimination. parliament’s committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs should now work with the commission, the council of europe and the venice commission to determine how parliament’s and the commission’s recommendations to the hungarian government are being implemented. if the hungarian government does not adhere to the letter and the spirit of the eu treaties that hungary has signed, parliament may have to activate article 7.1 of the treaty on european union on account of a serious breach of our shared values as eu members. there is an onus on all of us to ensure that the eu’s basic values are upheld. this resolution is an indication of just how seriously the actions of the hungarian government are being taken elsewhere in the eu.
in writing. − president bashar al-assad’s regime must immediately end the violence, step aside and allow a peaceful and democratic transition in syria. the numerous promises of reforms and amnesties by president bashar al-assad have never been honoured and the regime has lost all credibility and legitimacy. the systematic killings, violence and torture have dramatically escalated and the syrian army and security forces have continued to use targeted killings, torture and mass arrests. the un estimates that the death toll in syria has exceeded 5 400 during the 11 month-long uprising and at least 69 000 have been detained. i call on the european council to take a joint decision to recall all ambassadors from syria and to freeze diplomatic contacts with syrian ambassadors in eu member states. i further urge the high representative cathy ashton to reinforce the eu delegation in damascus with humanitarian capacity, and to do the same wherever else it is necessary in the region. we must actively support a genuine transition to democracy which meets the legitimate demands of the syrian people and is based on an inclusive dialogue involving all democratic forces and components of syrian society.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin thábhachtaigh seo. toisc nach gcuirtear 95% de saothair an domhain ar fáil i bhfoirmeacha oiriúnacha cosúil le braille, leabhair mhórchló nó closleabhair, bíonn sé an-deacair do na daill agus do dhaoine lagamhairc teacht ar leabhair. ní chuirtear ach 5% de shaothair fhoilsithe ar fáil sna foirmeacha sin sa domhan forbartha agus 1% sna tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha. is ‘gorta leabhar’ é a chiallaíonn sé go bhfuil grúpa mór sa tsochaí nach bhfuil a gcearta á gcumhdach dóibh. is éard atá ag cur bacainne roimh na foirmeacha oiriúnacha thuasluaite ná an easpa atá ann ó thaobh noirm dhlíthiúil idirnáisiúnta de a bhunódh eisceacht chóipchirt chun go mbeifí in ann córas trasteorann a chur i bhfeidhm do shaothair a bheadh curtha in oiriúint do dhaoine lagamhairc. ní mór don ae beart láidir a ghlacadh chuige sin agus conradh a bheadh ina cheangal dlí a bhaint amach ar leibhéal an wipo (an eagraíocht dhomhanda um maoin intleachtúil). tá sé ráite cheana ag parlaimint na heorpa gur réiteach a bheadh ina cheangal dlí atá uaithi. ní mór don choimisiún agus don chomhairle bearta a ghlacadh a bheadh chun leasa na ndall agus daoine lagamhairc agus deireadh a chur leis an ‘ngorta leabhar’.
in writing. − i fully support the adoption of today's resolution on access to books for blind people and people with dyslexia. regrettably, only 5% of published books are ever made accessible in braille, audio or large print in developed countries, and less than 1% in less-developed ones.
in writing. − with regard to printed products for blind and visually impaired people, i fully agree that measures need to be taken to ensure the current low of just 5 % of books being made accessible to blind people.
in writing. − i support this resolution that seeks to allow specialist organisations to make more books available for blind and visually impaired people by calling on the european council and commission to support a binding world intellectual property organisation (wipo) treaty.
mr president, speakers have mentioned that belarus is the only european country that has capital punishment as a form of criminal punishment. since the soviet union ended in 1991, up to 400 people have been executed in this way but, significantly, only 50 or less of these were in the last ten years. that would perhaps indicate a change in attitude, and that is something we would welcome. obviously we would like to see capital punishment being eliminated altogether as a form of sentence. where these two gentlemen are concerned, if they were truly guilty of the crime of bombing, and killing 15 people, it would be hard to argue, emotionally at least, that their sentence should be commuted, but all the evidence is that they were forced to confess. certainly that is not a way to have justice, so we are definitely right to call for commuting by the president.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, a protestor in tahrir square summed it up when he said that egypt is like a house where the curtains have been changed but everything else is the same. it was a mass movement and strike wave that managed to topple mubarak, but the new military rulers in the scaf have not made life better for ordinary egyptian people or met their democratic demands and aspirations. unemployment is now at 12%, representing an increase; inflation has risen to over 10%; 40% of the population struggle to survive on less than usd 2 per day and austerity policies are being introduced by the regime. the military apparatus has remained completely intact, and the new rulers are using violence and trying to foster sectarian division to maintain a justification for their rule. that was seen most dramatically with the events at port said, with 74 people killed and hundreds injured in events that clearly had the hand of the security forces behind them. despite that, the mass of people have not given up: they continue to struggle. there is a growing awareness of the need for a second revolution to take political power out of the hands of the military and to take economic power out of the hands of the elite into democratic public ownership.
author. − mr president, let me start with a quote from the french writer and activist victor hugo, who summed up the hypocrisy and barbarity of the death sentence when he said, ‘you hold up capital punishment as an example. why? because of what it teaches. and just what is it that you wish to teach by means of this example? that thou shalt not kill. and how do you teach that thou shalt not kill? by killing’. it is a disgrace that the death penalty still exists in japan, and it is a disgrace that the new minister of justice has announced that he does not want to continue the policy of caution of his predecessor and will, potentially, sign new execution orders. the barbarity of the situation in japan is increased by the fact that, in many cases, prisoners and their legal representatives are not informed of the execution until the day that it takes place, and their family members are not informed until the execution has already taken place, meaning that they cannot say a last goodbye to their loved ones. from 2000 to 2009, japan sentenced 112 people to death and executed 46, and there are currently 130 people on death row in japan. those convicted are kept in solitary confinement and wait an average of more than seven years – sometimes decades – in toilet-sized cells. executions are carried out at advanced ages and despite signs of mental illness. japan also has a 99% conviction rate, a figure which, critics say, is attributed to the use of forced confessions. in 2010 a number of other convictions – not death sentences – were overturned as a result of these coming out. obviously that cannot happen in the case of the death penalty. i think it is essential that we call for the immediate abolition of the death penalty.
madam president, i am still new here. i am very pleased to be here and my arrival has meant that the irish delegation in the s&d is 100% female, a fact that i am particularly proud of. irish women particularly have much to thank the european union for. after ireland’s entry into the european union much equality legislation was placed on our statue books, which i regret successive irish governments had failed to do. one of the most significant examples of this was the removal of the marriage bar, whereby women who worked in the public service were denied the right to work after they married. the marriage bar was lifted in 1974 following our entry into the european union. membership of the eu did much, but progress has been slow since then and there is still much that has to be done. women are under-represented at decision-making level in many spheres: at government level, at national parliament level and also at local government level while at the same time women are very active in communities. yet women in communities feel that their work there is very much undervalued. for that reason i believe that the implementation of quotas is necessary to improve the participation of women. i compliment the two rapporteurs of this report and also welcome the commitment and the call on the commission to introduce gender auditing of budgets, particularly in these difficult economic times.
mr president, i am calling on the commission to investigate whether eu action can be taken to tackle the growing problem of street sales of imported prescription drugs in dublin and in other irish cities and towns. these are drugs which require a prescription in ireland but are being bought over the counter in other eu countries, mostly in eastern europe, have been brought into ireland by criminal gangs and are being sold to drug users on the streets of dublin and other irish cities and towns. it is a very worrying development. there is evidence that there are vast quantities of z-drugs such as zopiclone, which is used to treat insomnia. these are being sold on the streets of dublin to drug users. they are dangerous substances, particularly if taken in conjunction with alcohol or other substances. there is no doubt that the availability of these drugs is fuelling dublin’s drug crisis. because the drugs have been purchased legally in other eu countries, prosecutions in ireland can be lengthy and complex. i believe that the commission should now examine whether eu-level action can be taken to tackle the problem of street sales of prescription drugs in member states and ireland where a prescription is required. the eu should consider minimum eu-wide rules on prescribing drugs and ending the bulk buying of over-the-counter drugs, as spain has done in the past.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i have to say i marvel every time that mr barroso and mr van rompuy can keep a straight face when they say that our strategy is starting to work and when they talk about job-creating growth. the strategy that they are pursuing, which is an onslaught on people’s living standards and an onslaught on society in greece, has resulted in the highest level of unemployment across the eu since the introduction of the euro – 25 million people. it has resulted in a contraction of the eurozone at the end of 2011. they want to institutionalise synchronised austerity right across europe with their fiscal treaty but at the same time they like to talk about growth. it was winston in george orwell’s 1984 who said that freedom is the freedom to say that two plus two makes four. so let me say clearly that trying to meet the structural deficit targets under article 3 and the debt reduction targets under article 4 of this treaty equals savage austerity across europe. it means 5.7 billion euros’ worth of extra cuts and taxes in ireland; tens of billions of euros across the eurozone. it means, without economic growth, repayment to the bondholders of four and a half billion euros in principal repayments on top of the interest in ireland; over a hundred billion across the eurozone. it does not mean growth; it means more unemployment; it means a worsening crisis; it means worsening public services and worsening working conditions. because of this, in ireland the government’s only argument in this debate is based on fear. the centrepiece of their scaremongering is the clause which is inserted into the new esm treaty which says that only countries that sign up to this permanent austerity can access the esm funds. so, mr barroso and mr van rompuy, can i ask you a direct question, for which i would like an answer? how did this blackmail clause come to be inserted into the new esm treaty? who proposed this blackmail clause? did the irish government raise any objection to the creation of a stick that is simply there to beat the irish people with, to try and get us to vote for permanent austerity? finally, is it not the case that the amendment to the treaty on the functioning of the european union to allow the esm to come into being has still not been ratified by the member states and therefore, if the irish government is serious about a fair and free debate without this threat hanging over our heads, it has the power to refuse to ratify and allow this esm treaty to come into being – unless the clause is removed?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am grateful to the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, ms berès, and the rapporteur, ms harkin, for giving the presidency this opportunity to present the state of the proposal to extend the crisis derogation under the current european globalisation adjustment fund, the egf. i would like to begin by recalling one important fact. the current egf has not been repealed. it continues to function as decided by our two institutions back in 2006, and the authors of the questions suggest that the council has come to the conclusion that the current crisis is over. i can assure you that is by no means the case. at the most recent meeting the other week, heads of state and government concluded that tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the current crisis was one of the main priorities for 2012. it is, of course, primarily up to each member state to take the necessary measures and follow the policy it considers to be the most appropriate to combat unemployment. even though this now happens within a strong european policy framework, the crisis derogation to the egf was introduced for a limited time as a supplementary instrument for helping combat some of the consequences of the crisis. when the commission put forward its proposal to extend the mechanism, there was insufficient support within the council. there were a number of reasons expressed by member states as to why they were not ready to endorse the commission’s proposal. in general, doubts over its added value persisted. some member states underlined that the labour market policies lie firmly within national competence. others already have access to well-developed aid mechanisms at national level and consider the egf contribution to be a useful but not essential complement to these mechanisms. some felt it was inappropriate at a time of national austerity to introduce new unforeseen expenditure in the eu budget. these are just a few examples. of course, there were also a significant number of member states who supported the proposal. since the commission presented its proposal in the middle of last year, the polish presidency made a tremendous effort to find a solution which would meet the concerns of all member states. however, the epsco council in december failed to reach agreement on any of the compromise proposals tabled. since then, the danish presidency has made further attempts and tabled a new compromise, but even recent efforts to try to break the deadlock through direct contacts with ministers failed to achieve an outcome. as president, i regret that it was not possible to reach an acceptable compromise. however, we cannot of course oblige other member states to change their positions. under these conditions we came to the conclusion that further negotiations on crisis derogation could hinder progress on the future egf. there were good reasons for this. already, early on in the discussions on the extension of the crisis derogation for the current egf, it was underlined that the extensions would not pre-empt the negotiations on the future egf. as you know, these negotiations take place within the context of the wider negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework. we had a first round of discussions on the future egf on 27 february and i can assure the european parliament that the council will debate this proposal on its own merits. here in parliament you have had preliminary discussions in the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on employment and social affairs, and discussions so far both within the council and here in parliament showed that there are serious doubts about several important aspects of the new egf regulation, notably the inclusion of the agricultural sector. i would like to assure you of the commitment of the danish presidency to taking forward the discussions on the future egf. i look forward both to hearing your views on this issue this morning as well as to the further work which will be needed between our two institutions as we seek to make progress in the negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office, i have just listened to you very carefully, but you are about to meet someone who is actively defending the globalisation adjustment fund on behalf of workers who are affected by the crisis, with thousands of jobs closing. go tell the irish employees at dell who lost 1,600 jobs what you just told them! tell that to the portuguese who lost considerable jobs in the textile sector or to the spanish who lost jobs in the wood and ceramics sector and many others. the competitiveness of firms is at stake here, because the globalisation adjustment fund, which is supposed to enable us to reintegrate those affected by unemployment into the labour market, also serves the competitiveness of firms, and so it is the economic health of europe that you are threatening. yes, we are in a crisis, we are still in it and certainly for a few more years. the fight against the crisis is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. yes, you need to exercise real leadership in the council to ensure that countries align themselves with this desire to integrate the most threatened workers into economic life. it is our common future, the credibility of europe, and the credibility of the council, mr president, that is at stake. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as ms berès has already said, in december of last year parliament overwhelmingly supported the continuation of the crisis derogation. if we look at the applications that came into the egf in december 2011, 13 applications under the crisis derogation came in december alone. what is astonishing is that three of those applications came in from one member state that is objecting to the extension of the crisis derogation. i cannot make any sense of that and i really would like to hear an explanation from the relevant member state. we have already heard the arguments here today about the crisis. we know the crisis is not over but what i again find astonishing is just one figure, that of youth unemployment. the average in the eu 27 is 21.6 % but there are 11 member states – not just two or three – there are 11 where the youth unemployment rate is over 25 %. so we cannot under any circumstances say that the crisis has passed. so my question to the president-in-office is: does the blocking minority support the egf as an instrument in the first place? are there some aspects or provisions in the fund which they object to? do they believe that the fund does not deliver added value? if you look at the mid-term evaluation of the egf you will see that it delivers significant added value. of course there are improvements which could be made but the reintegration rate into employment is 41.8 % and that is increasing in the medium term, so even from that perspective the fund is delivering. i suppose my other question to you is: is this just an objection to social action in the first place? my final question is about the new egf proposal. you talked about some problems with the proposal and you mentioned farmers. are there any other issues that are causing problems within the council with regard to the new egf application?
mr president, i wish to express my opposition to the removal of the crisis derogation from the globalisation fund and i would urge the council to work with the minority of blocking member states and ask them to reconsider their position and arrive at a conclusion. in ireland, between 2009 and 2011, 70% of the applications for the egf fund were crisis-related. companies such as sr technics, dell, waterford crystal and companies from the construction industry applied and availed of this fund to upskill thousands of workers and help them find alternative employment. just last week we had the announcement in ireland that 2 500 bank officials are to be made redundant in the second largest bank in ireland, aib. this would be the equivalent to 45 000 job losses in germany. we spent the morning discussing that fiscal consolidation must be accompanied by a jobs and growth strategy. if we are to do more than pay lip-service to this, we need to ensure that the crisis derogation is retained for the egf funding. i urge the council to ensure that this derogation is retained and that the egf fund can... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i wish to explain on behalf of the irish epp delegation that we abstained from the vote on the lechner report because the irish government expressed reservations about this report in regard to the use of habitual residence as the connecting factor in the absence of a choice of law, the effect of the regulation on the system of administration which exists in ireland and the issue of lifetime gifts or clawback. while some progress was made on the issue of habitual residence, the issue of administration of estates and the restoration of lifetime gifts or clawback were not resolved to ireland’s satisfaction. as a result ireland has not opted into this proposed regulation in the council and therefore the epp fine gael members have abstained on this vote because we have similar reservations.
madam president, i wish to explain some of my votes on this report. i abstained on paragraphs 1, 3, 5, 47 and recital t. according to the principle of subsidiarity these are issues within the competence of member states and i do not see why these issues are included in this report. but i did want to make one other point. since the report has gone into all sorts of issues which are not the competence of the parliament, why has it not gone into the issue of gendercide? there are 100 million women missing in the world because of gender-based abortion. if this report can go into all sorts of issues in relation to abortion and war and everything else, why is it that we can never hear from this author or this committee any concern about the destruction of women because they are women on such an extraordinary scale? it is wholly unacceptable and i am flabbergasted that it has not been mentioned in this report.
madam president, this report is supposed to be about equality between men and women in the european union. i regret that once again the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has strayed completely from the topic. this report is a missed opportunity to discuss gender equality and the persistent and gaping gender pay gap, still 17.5% according to paragraph 17, and yet there is only one small paragraph consisting of four-and-a-half lines dealing with this. instead, the focus of this report was diverted to abortion, reproductive rights and the definition of the family, all of which are subsidiarity matters. i voted against paragraph 47, reproductive rights and access to abortion; paragraph 58, reproductive and health services; paragraph 61, access to abortion for victims of rape in armed conflict. mr messerschmidt, mr kasoulides, mr tannock have all emphasied that the vast majority of the matters being dealt with are matters of subsidiarity. i voted against the report in total.
a uachtaráin, cosúil le mo chomhghleacaithe an tuasal higgins agus an tuasal mitchell, bhí deacrachtaí agamsa leis na moltaí seo chomh maith, go háirithe a mhéid agus a bhaineann le ginmhilleadh agus cumhachtaí na mballstát. bhí an iomarca ar fad sa tuarascáil mar a dúirt an tuasal hannan agus bhí ar a lán feisirí vótáil ina coinne cé go bhfuil siad i bhfabhar cothromaíocht a chruthú idir fir agus mná. nuair a fhéachann tú ar an saol mar atá sé faoi láthair agus ar an gcúlú eacnamaíochta, ceann de na cúiseanna go bhfuil cúlú eacnamaíochta againn ná go bhfuil an iomarca fear sa pholaitíocht agus an iomarca fear i gcomhlachtaí, go háirithe ar bhoird chomhlachtaí agus ba cheart é sin a cheartú amach anseo. dá bhrí sin, tá a lán oibre le déanamh againn agus caithfimid é a thabhairt chun cinn chomh luath agus is féidir linn. tá na moltaí anseo ach bhí siad fite fuaite le gach uile rud agus bhí ar a lán daoine vótáil ina choinne dá bharr sin.
madam president, i am very happy to support this own-initiative report – and that is what it is, an own-initiative report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report which sets out some very practical and realistic measures, unlike the last report which we debated here. gender quotas, in my opinion, are the only real means of change. i look at the irish parliament. it has a record high of 26 females since we got our independence in 1922 – that is what we have now. in percentage terms, it only represents 16% of the composition of parliament, a far cry from the 30% target set by the un. we need to reinvent our political system so that it is gender-balanced. i look at spain, for example, and belgium, where they introduced gender quotas. the proportions of women in parliament have rocketed since the introduction of legally-binding quotas. belgium, for example: 12.7% in 2007, 35% now; spain: 26% in 2008, 36.3% now; but i want to emphasise that it is only a very temporary measure until we get gender balance – because that is what it is all about.
i scríbhinn. − mar an cathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa chun na heilbhéise, na híoslainne, na hiorua agus comhchoiste parlaiminteach an limistéir eorpaigh eacnamaíoch, fearaim fáilte roimh ghlacadh na tuarascála seo.
in writing. − i am abstaining on this proposal, which provides for the introduction of a european certificate of succession which would serve as proof of heirship or power of administration in all member states. ireland, like the uk and denmark, has not opted into this proposed regulation. the principal reasons for the decision taken by the irish government not to opt in to the regulation relate to the use of “habitual residence” as the connecting factor in the absence of a choice of law. while progress was made in relation to the issue of habitual residence, the issues of administration of estates and the restoration of lifetime gifts (clawback) were not resolved and as a consequence ireland will not be reviewing its position on application of the regulation.
in writing. − i very much welcome the emphasis placed in the ep’s resolution on taking much greater account – through gender impact assessments – of the effect on women of the economic crisis and the responses to it. the impact of the necessary fiscal consolidation must not fall disproportionately on the shoulders of women. there have to be clear gender dimensions to our growth and jobs strategies. i endorse the call for a european equal pay target of reducing the gender pay gap by 10% in each member state. gender pay differentials for work of equal value are transmitted into later generations in the form of lower pensions for women and higher poverty rates amongst older women. they need to be tackled now. i welcome the call for eu legislation, including quotas, to increase female representation on company boards to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020 and for legislative measures at national level to ensure balanced representation of women and men in politics. in this context i believe we can learn from the very active participation of women at community level, work which should be more highly valued at both national level and eu level.
in writing. − there are many positive aspects to this report, in particular the call to member states to invest in affordable high quality facilities for those who need care, as well as the proposal to ensure that men and women who are caring receive recognition by giving them individual social security and pension rights. also, recognition and validation of skills acquired during care-related leave should be considered by member states. the report speaks of economic independence for women and this is linked to employment opportunities and equal pay for equal work of equal value. the fight against sexual violence is crucially important and needs to remain as one of the top priorities of the eu, and i believe the definition of family needs to be broad enough to include different types of households. i cannot, however, support the rapporteur’s views on access to abortion as in conscience i do not support abortion.
in writing. − the european union has an impressive record in fighting for gender equality anti-discrimination. although i fully support the majority content of this report, i did not support paragraphs 47 and 58 and recital r, which refer to matters that are the competence of member state governments.
in writing. − i strongly support the rapporteur in this report. time-framed gender based quotas are an excellent idea and have been shown to work in many member states. it is crucial that the untapped potential of women is integrated into political and economic decision-making. i also support commissioner reding’s view that the public consultation which will take place should not be about whether we need greater numbers of women in decision-making processes, but about how to achieve that aim.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it highlighted the fact that women are under-represented in leading political decision-making bodies. this under-representation is a reflection of the structural discrimination against women in capitalist society. women are mainly responsible for child-rearing and caring duties and are more likely to take time out of work to fulfil these roles. this leads to discrimination against working women who are less likely to gain promotions, leading to women being concentrated in lower-paid and precarious jobs. sexism and stereotyping is also a real and serious barrier to women in capitalist society and impacts on women taking leading positions in organisations. i abstained on the separate votes in this report on gender quotas. i do not believe that gender quotas will fundamentally alter discrimination against women in capitalist society. to tackle this discrimination there need to be measures such as state-run, quality, free childcare, together with state investment in public services, a significant increase in the minimum wage, the right to a living wage, paid maternity and paternity leave. quotas will at best just give an image of equality without altering the reality for millions of working-class and poor women.
in writing. − i support the idea that co-operatives and other social economy enterprises deserve strong recognition and support. the eu has over 150,000 co-operatives which provide work for more than 5 million employees. it is very important to support co-operative banks and co-operative financial institutions, and of course in this i include credit unions. owner-managed, not-for-profit institutions have shown high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis and it is crucial that any regulation for co-operative financial institutions is proportionate and supports their ethos fully.
i scríbhinn. − tá próiseas bologna imithe go mór chun tairbhe do mhuintir na heorpa, go háirithe ó thaobh na soghluaisteachta agus an aitheantais fhrithpháirtigh do cháilíochtaí de. ní foláir go mbeadh micléinn agus céimithe saor le gluaiseacht idir ballstáit an aontais ionas go mbeidís in ann cur le téarnamh geilleagrach na heorpa. aontaím leis an rapóirtéir go bhfuil gá lena thuilleadh a dhéanamh chun go mbeadh cáilíochtaí á n-aithint go frithpháirteach ag na ballstáit. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir leis an maoiniú d’institiúidí tríú leibhéal agus do chúrsaí taighde agus oideachais a mhéadú ar mhaithe le geilleagar eolasbhunaithe a spreagadh san ae. ní mór go mbeadh eolas soiléir infhaighte maidir le cúrsaí oiliúna agus le cáilíochtaí ar fáil do mhuintir uile na heorpa. molaim a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le hinfhaighteacht an eolais faoi chúrsaí ollscoile, gairmiúla agus oiliúna a fheabhsú, agus go mbeadh eolas ar leith ar fáil maidir le hinaistritheacht na gcáilíochtaí san ae. ní foláir go leanfaí le dea-obair phróiseas bologna chun go mbeadh breis chomhchuibhithe agus comhoibrithe ann idir córais oideachais an ae sa chaoi go mbeadh dream óg na heorpa in ann leas ceart a bhaint as na deiseanna oideachais agus fostaíochta atá ann.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán le hiarrachtaí ar leibhéal an ae feabhas a chur ar chúrsaí oideachais tríú leibhéal. ní mór an t-ardoideachas a neartú ar mhaithe le spriocanna na straitéise eoraip 2020 a bhaint amach. rachaidh na forálacha a nglacadh leo inniu maidir le soghluaisteacht, maidir le haitheantas frithpháirteach do cháilíochtaí agus don chreat um cháilíochtaí, maidir le dearbhú cáilíochta, maidir leis an ngné shóisialta, maidir le hinfhostaitheacht, agus maidir leis an bhfeabhas ar an gcomhoibriú idir limistéar eorpach an ardoideachais agus an limistéar taighde eorpach chun tairbhe ollscoileanna, institiúidí tríú leibhéal, céimithe agus mic léinn éireannacha.
in writing. − this report is very timely, and i support the proposal that a systemic approach to quality needs to be taken, and that this may require a reform of the method of producing european statistics from a corrective approach to a preventative approach to the quality management of eu statistics in general and public finance statistics in particular. here i would have supported the amendment from my group to take the necessary steps to strengthen the independence of eurostat, but unfortunately the oral amendment was not allowed.
would the commission agree that what we need now is cash flow and confidence and that cash flow is being taken account of in those countries where proper austerity plans have been put in place? confidence will come through those austerity plans and also through stimulus. is it not time for stimulus? i completely support what has been said about completing the internal market and i welcome what commissioner barnier has said about the social market economy, but where is the ‘social’ in this social market economy? ireland had a debt/gnp ratio of about 25 %. it should be, having met our liabilities, about 85 %. instead it is heading for 119 % because we have taken on responsibilities to other investors from other member states. is it not time, when people are meeting their austerity obligations, that the union diverted its own resources or found new resources or borrowings to start stimulating the economy? it used to be that people hated the initials imf. now the term eu is being used as a term of abuse. wake up! we need that stimulus and i ask the commission, would they agree that it is time for that to happen?
if at the end of the second world war people had said, ‘look what germany did’, ‘look what hitler did’ and ‘look at what went on with kaisers and kings’ we would never have had a marshall plan. how long is this recession going to go on? i was director of elections for five referenda in my country where i advocated a yes vote. i am one of the most pro-european people in this house, but we need to start hearing words like hope, stimulus and growth as well as austerity. we are taking the austerity. we are living with that austerity. people are making huge sacrifices. pensions have been cut, salaries have been cut, and the private and public sector have been cut. we have introduced taxes. but we need a stimulus as well. there has to be a whole rethink on this. i would ask the commission, please, would you not just talk about truth, talk about hope, talk about stimulus, talk about growth. change the vocabulary. it is time we moved on.
i scríbhinn. – le cúpla bliain anuas, tá na meáin chumarsáide ag tarraingt aird an phobail agus na bpolaiteoirí ar shaincheist an tsaothair leanaí. de réir staidéar a rinneadh le déanaí, áfach, is “neamhchothrom” agus “neamhfhoirfe” iad iarrachtaí na hearnála dul i ngleic le saothar leanaí agus níl faic tarlaithe i gcás 97% d’fheirmeoirí an chósta eabhair. measann unicef go bhfuil leathmhilliún leanbh i mbun saothair ar fheirmeacha sa chósta eabhair, tír a tháirgeann 40% de chócó an domhain. is ón afraic thiar a thagann 80% de chócó an ae agus is é tionscal cócó na heorpa an tionscal cócó is mó ar domhan. dá bhrí sin, tá dualgas ar an ae inbhuanaitheacht na hearnála cócó a áirithiú agus ní mór, go morálta agus go praiticiúil, go mbeadh ceisteanna um shaothar leanaí i chroílár comhaontaithe trádála uile an ae. is tréith dhearfach den chomhaontú cócó idirnáisiúnta í gur le saothar leanaí a bhaineann alt 42 agus alt 43 an chomhaontaithe, ach ní mór don choimisiún amharc ar lipéadú a dhearbhaíonn go bhfuil earra “saor ó shaothar leanaí” á thabhairt isteach chun a chinntiú go gcuirtear i bhfeidhm i gceart na comhghnásanna saorálacha maidir le deireadh a chur leis na cineálacha is measa de shaothar leanaí.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur and other colleagues who worked on this dossier. it seems that everyone is in very good humour this evening because we have solved, we hope, a trade war that has lasted for far too long: 15 years. so we can be grateful that we are at this stage and that it augurs well for the future. indeed, i too welcome as the commissioner did, the publication of the draft rule by the us authorities on friday. i think it is an act of good faith and we hope that it follows through with the reopening of the market for eu beef to the usa. but there is one issue which i think has not been resolved and has not been mentioned here so there is still some caution on this. i think we have made the agreement but we have to do the detail. it is my understanding from the us side that the regulations on the use of lactic acid treatment for the carcases is not to their liking, is not at all practical. i suppose from the eu perspective it is not good to hear this, but this is what they are saying to us and therefore they will need more clarity on that. equally, i would be somewhat concerned that without that clarity we will not see the movement on eu beef exports to the usa. so yes, we have achieved a great deal and we have broken the deadlock on a trade war but i think we need to do a great deal more for both sides to benefit from this solution. my last point and i will repeat it, is on the issue of practical regulations. i know in this house we have concerns sometimes around how detailed and complex and bureaucratic our regulations are. it would be unfortunate if the us is saying to us, and it is from what i hear, that our regulations on this issue are far too impractical. so perhaps the commissioner would refer to that and perhaps also to concerns around russia and their proposal to ban livestock exports because of the schmallenberg virus?
mr president, i think the best antidote to euroscepticism, which is rather rife at the moment, is to have countries actually wanting to join the european union. together with croatia next year, there are a number of candidate countries and now we are discussing fyrom. the name fyrom is unfortunate. while from a distance it does not make sense, i can understand for those closer to it that they may have issues. at the same time, to call anything ‘former’ is not very complimentary. if my country was called ‘the former british colony of ireland’, i do not think we would be too happy. i think we should set a deadline by which this is to be resolved so that the name reflects its current status rather than the former one. moving on from there, we should get it to comply with the copenhagen criteria on issues such as the economy, media, women’s rights, children’s rights and so forth, i look forward to fyrom, with a proper name, joining the european union.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh an dul chun cinn atá déanta go dtí seo le hidirbheartaíocht na híoslainne agus an aontais. is léiriú den dea-chaidreamh atá ann idir an dá thaobh go bhfuil aon chaibidil déag oscailte agus dhá cheann dúnta go coinníollach. creidim go láidir go rachaidh aontachas na híoslainne leis an aontas chun tairbhe an aontais agus na híoslainne. ag deireadh an lae is faoi mhuintir na híoslainne féin a bheidh sé an cinneadh a dhéanamh. tá gaolta láidir cruthaithe ag parlaimint na heorpa le baill den alþingi. beidh mé féin, mar cheannaire ar an toscaireacht ó pharlaimint na heorpa go réicivíc, ag dul ansin ag tús na míosa seo chugainn chun freastal ar chruinniú comhchoiste pharlaimintigh. tá leasú curtha síos agam go comhpháirteach leis an rapóirtéir, an tuasal preda, agus leis an uasal färm i rún ar thuarascáil an lae inniu. ar ndóigh, is cúis bróin é gur theip ar na stáit chósta teacht ar chomhréiteach maidir le roinnt murlas agus ar deireadh tá todhchaí an stoic i mbaol agus caithfimid ár ndícheall a dhéanamh na daoine seo a thabhairt ar ais le chéile agus ar ndóigh tá bearta trádála nua á dtabhairt isteach ag an gcoimisiún.
a uachtaráin, luíonn sé le réasún go raibh móramh mór i bhfabhar an ailt thapa seo inniu mar ba mhaith le gach duine leigheas a fháil ar an ngalar seo nó níos fearr é a chosaint. as regards prevention, i came across a staggering statistic recently at a health forum in brussels, where it said that 97% of health expenses in the european union were spent on trying to treat various ailments and only 3% was invested in trying to find cures and, particularly, on prevention. therefore, i agree completely with kay swinburne, who says that in research there should be huge emphasis on prevention. there is too much on trying to find cures and not enough on prevention. for instance, many people would like to change their behavioural pattern and to have a better lifestyle but they struggle to do so. that is an example of where we should do some research. also ms băsescu mentioned the importance of sport. i certainly agree with that, and particularly in the next multiannual financial framework there should be a budget for health-related sport and various activities.
in writing. − i welcome the resolution of the long running trade dispute between the usa and the eu on access for usa and canadian beef to the eu market. however, i am disappointed that no efforts were made with this memorandum of understanding to introduce some reciprocity to the deal. the imminent publication of the us bse rule, as announced at the weekend, is a significant show of good faith on the part of the us authorities. however, this is the start of a long process, and the eu must ensure that this is not used as a delaying tactic and that all market opportunities are secured for european farmers. as the usa now has the same oie bse status as ireland, the reasons behind the original ban have been eliminated. at present, only 1% of irish beef is exported to non-eu markets. given the importance of agriculture to the european economy, we cannot afford not to push for access to large markets such as the usa, and we should take every opportunity for reciprocal deals for our farmers.
in writing. − the decision of the us authorities to publish a draft law aimed at aligning its rules on bovine imports with the world organisation for animal health (oie) standards on bse is a welcome one and could pave the way for the reopening of the market for eu beef to the us. while this move is not directly linked with the report voted today in plenary, it nevertheless demonstrates the goodwill of the us. for this reason, i supported this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report outlining the guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget. the report focuses on strengthening efforts, made at eu level, in order to ensure that member states’ recovery policies are aligned with and get the most from the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. − i welcome the call on the commission to prepare an eu-wide diabetes strategy, in the form of a council recommendation. diabetes is the leading cause of heart attacks and other serious illnesses and affects 32 million people between the ages of 20 and 79 in europe. this number is expected to grow to over 16% of the total population by 2030 due to europe’s ageing population. every year 325 000 deaths in the eu are attributed to diabetes, or one every two minutes. half of all people with diabetes are not aware that they have it. an eu-strategy should focus on prevention, diagnosis, treatment and research. i would point out, as the diabetes federation of ireland has done, that children with diabetes require supervision to maintain their diabetes management and to remain healthy. the need for diabetes management does not end while the child is at school. any eu-wide strategy has to take account of this fact. i welcome the fact that the eu has spent over eur 200 million on research into diabetes and obesity since 2007. we need to continue eu diabetes research, especially to identify the risk factors for type i diabetes.
in writing. − nearly 10% of the total eu population – an estimated 32 million citizens – are affected by diabetes in the eu. the number of people living with diabetes in europe is expected to increase by 16.6% by 2030. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution calling for a targeted eu-wide diabetes strategy to address these worrying statistics.
in writing. − i very look forward to the day when bosnia and herzegovina joins the eu. i believe its citizens would benefit enormously from membership. equally importantly there is much we could all learn from the full involvement of the people of bosnia and herzegovina in the process of european integration. the eu must continue to encourage and to help bosnia and herzegovina in delivering on reforms. progress is being made, such as the recent appointment of mr bevanda as prime minister and the state aid and census laws, but the reform process has to be deepened, especially in relation to the state budget for 2012 and ensuring the constitution complies with the echr, in line with the sejdic-finci ruling. croatia will join the eu in 2013 and serbia has now been granted candidate status. if bosnia and herzegovina wants to apply for candidate status this year, all of its political leaders need to deliver for its people. they have to reach a consensus on strengthening state-level institutions. bosnia and herzegovina can only enter the eu as a single country. the undermining of state institutions will only deprive all of its citizens of the benefits of membership.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, what we see in kazakhstan today is severe and large-scale regression in the field of human rights and democratic rights. however, this regression – seen, for example, in the brutal crackdown in zhanaozen, which saw at least 17 people killed – did not prevent the german government from signing a lucrative trade deal for rare earths this february. here we have an example of fine words about human rights not matched by actions, particularly when it comes to vested economic interests. so let us have some action here and ask the vice-president/high representative’s representative to give a clear commitment that the negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement will be suspended until there is meaningful change and until all political prisoners, including vladimir kozlov and human rights defender vadim kuramshin, have been unconditionally released, and all trumped-up charges and investigations against the 43 strikers and their supporters awaiting trial – and the leaders of the political opposition – have been dropped, including those against ainur kurmanov, leader of the socialist movement in kazakhstan, and the leader of the independent trade union ‘zhanartu’, esenbek ukteshbaev. it is those who gave the order to shoot down peaceful protestors who should be in the dock, not these opposition activists. i welcome natalya sokolova’s release from prison, but all charges against her must be dropped and there must be no restrictions on her trade union activity. the kazakh government is suggesting that they have learnt lessons, but actions speak much louder than words, and their actions suggest that the crackdown on workers’ rights and democratic rights is continuing and going even further. for example, february’s amendments to the labour code allow the dismissal of workers involved in strike action, makes it easier to dismiss trade union representatives during strike negotiations and legalises lock-outs. the report of the general prosecutor’s office has insufficiently accounted for the role of the state forces in the events in zhanaozen, and the number of people who died according to that report is massively disputed by eyewitnesses. an independent, international inquiry is still desperately needed. if i am granted a visa, i will be travelling to zhanaozen as part of a delegation of trade unionists, human rights activists and journalists to try and help bring out the truth.
mr president, the actions of the boko haram group are outrageous and fanatical acts of hatred for which there must be a commitment to judicial accountability. i would urge the high representative to put in place now arrangements to ensure that they know that they will be called to account. this group has been waging an insurgency against nigeria’s government since 2009 and has been blamed for hundreds of killings and gun and bomb attacks. in the past six months they have widened their targets beyond the police and other authority figures to include christian worshippers. they have bombed churches in the cities of jos and killed 185 people as we have heard. in any society this is totally unacceptable. but i also want to raise the fact that nigeria is the world’s eighth largest oil producer and yet the majority of its 145 million inhabitants live below the poverty line. i believe this is something that the high commission should be raising not just with the nigerian government but also with the producers and the developers of these oil products. we must go after those who are pursuing these heinous crimes but also try to bring some influence to bear on the oil producers at the same time.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, and also to thank christa klaß for mentioning agriculture more substantively than has been done thus far in the debate. there are many pressures on agriculture. we have this debate this morning, we have the cap reform, which has a 30% greening component about which there is much concern, and we have the commission’s proposals on lulucf, which have not yet reached parliament but which have serious implications for agriculture. i would draw the commissioner’s attention to the reaction from farming organisations – remember that they are the practitioners and it is worth listening to what they have to say – who consider that the commission’s proposals are neither feasible nor coherent given the current level of understanding, and that scientific knowledge concerning carbon capture and storage and emissions from soils, and the effects of different management methods on these, is still far from complete. we need to be very careful about imposing more accounting rules on farmers, and to be mindful of the content of paragraph 95 of this report, which encourages the commission to come up with measures but also to take particular account of the role of agriculture as a producer of food.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my country, ireland, has no reported case of the schmallenberg virus. i just hope that it will remain virus free. however, i am quite concerned by the intention of one of the eu’s trading partners, russia, to ban shipments of europe’s cattle and hogs from 20 march because of the infection in some member states. the news that russia may expand the ban, applying it not only to the import of all live cattle, pigs and sheep, but more importantly to beef, pork and sheepmeat from the whole eu, is worrying for producers across all member states. that the ban includes pigs – though the virus is not associated with pigs – demonstrates a knee-jerk attitude to this situation. given that russia was the leading destination for eu beef and pork in 2011, we need immediate action to protect the reputation of european produce and address public health concerns. i welcome the european commission’s determination to resist attempts by third countries to impose trade restrictions on the back of concerns over this virus, but we must step up our efforts to ensure that agricultural trade does not fall victim to a knee-jerk decision. the eu has a strong record for health and safety standards in agriculture and animal welfare, and we must work to ensure this message continues to be communicated clearly and consistently to our trade partners and consumers.
a uachtaráin, bhí a lán moltaí maithe sa tuarascáil seo ach moltaí conspóideacha ann chomh maith. ag deireadh na dála, diúltaíodh don chuid is mó díobh agus is dóigh liom gur thángamar ar thoradh sásúil. in relation to this, the key word is the first word ‘competitive’ because we are in an economic crisis and, if we are to get out of it and for the european economy to grow, we need jobs, we need new industries and we need to be competitive in the world. we have to try and balance that with our concerns about the environment. some of the proposals would actually harm our economy – and some were rejected, maybe others were not. but the real key for europe is to try and get other countries, particularly the likes of china and india and indeed all countries on a worldwide basis, to act globally to deal with a global problem. this is our challenge.
mr president, my group, the european united left, proposed a number of amendments to strengthen this important resolution. i condemn the brutal massacre by the kazakh state forces of oil workers and their supporters last december, and i condemn the arrest of the political opposition and the continuous clampdown against and harassment of opposition media, independent trade unions and journalists. i supported the oil workers’ strike right from the start, as i believe that all their demands are fully justified, and i salute the courage of all the kazakh workers, journalists and opposition activities that i have met and who have dared to speak out, despite the huge repression that they face. in the end i had to abstain on the final vote on this resolution because, despite all the correct concerns that it raises about the alarming, serious deterioration in terms of human rights, the resolution ultimately gives in to the window-dressing attempts of the kazakh state to suggest that they have learned lessons and that the situation on the ground is improving, when in fact the situation on the ground continues to worsen.
mr president, together with my sister party in nigeria, the democratic socialist movement, i condemn the violence of boko haram. this organisation has absolutely nothing to offer the workers and poor of nigeria other than deeper religious and ethnic violence. violence and extortion by state forces and between rival corrupt politicians is also common. for socialists, the answer to communal, ethnic, religious division and violence lies in mass movements which can unify the working class and poor in a struggle against their common enemies, in this case the corrupt elite and the big business which literally steal the vast wealth that exists in nigeria: just 1% of the population taking 95% of the oil wealth, while over 80% of the population lives in poverty. january’s general strike, the biggest ever in nigeria, was not just against the fuel price hike but increasingly called for regime change. that is exactly what is needed in nigeria, a struggle for a government of working people and poor that can use the tremendous resources that exist in the interests of the majority and point the way forward beyond division.
in writing. − this report endorses the european commission’s roadmap for moving to a competitive low carbon economy in 2050. the eu is responsible now only for 11% of global co2 emissions. i had concerns about the possible negative impact of paragraphs 2, 98, 104 and 110 on agriculture; these have been addressed by way of adopted amendments. i abstained on part 2 of the vote on paragraph 72 since member states are free to choose their own energy mix. ireland, though not a nuclear nation, likely derives some of its energy from nuclear sources through the uk/ireland interconnector.
madam president, it is a most vile situation to have people who unfortunately have to leave their own home in search of a better life falling into the hands of human traffickers and organ harvesters and ending up being mutilated in the most terrible way and left to die. all of this is happening while we elsewhere in the world look on. it is certainly appropriate that we should be discussing this issue and passing a resolution today to try to bring some improvement to this unfortunate situation. long term, the solution is obviously to try to eliminate poverty and to improve and develop democracy in the countries which these people unfortunately feel they have to leave – and those in sub-saharan africa in particular. there also needs to be a greater un presence, and particularly human rights organisations, etc., in sinai itself, so that this situation can be monitored. hopefully the people involved can be persuaded or forced to desist from their activities and then we can move towards a solution.
author. − mr president, i agree that the raids on al-watan tv and al-quds should be condemned very clearly by this parliament. they highlight the attack by the israeli establishment on the freedom of the media. this is not an accidental policy or a one-off incident; it is a conscious policy to undermine the freedom of the media to prevent the reporting of the real situation facing the palestinians on the ground. i personally am still awaiting the return of a laptop which is the property of this parliament, and of my own mobile phone, which the israeli security forces have now had for over four months. it also illustrates the conscious strategy of the israeli elite in relation to the west bank, which is to undermine any prospect of real self-rule by the palestinians, even within area a. it is part of the same strategy of which the settlements are part: to undermine any capacity for self-rule. it is also completely in breach of the oslo accords. i have to take the opportunity to speak about the murderous assault on gaza. benjamin netanyahu proudly proclaimed that the israeli establishment has exacted a very high price. let us look at that price. it is the murder of ayub asaliya, a 12-year-old boy who lived in jabaliya refugee camp, and the killing of at least 22 other palestinians and the injuring of around 100 palestinians, including children. this was a barbaric, murderous assault on the people of gaza. it has nothing to do with stopping terrorism and everything to do with the continuation of the military and psychological warfare and collective punishment against the palestinians living within the gaza strip. and what was the response of the so-called international community? again, unfortunately very predictable: an underscoring of the complicity that imperialism has with the oppression of the palestinians. from the us we had the usual blaming of the palestinians for their own oppression, and simply a condemnation of the rocket fire from gaza, ignoring the murderous bombing raids by the israeli forces. from the eu we had the striking of the usual even-handed pose (supposedly), an incredible statement by catherine ashton deploring the loss of civilian lives – essential to avoid further escalation – and urging all sides to re-establish calm: incredible in the context of a murderous assault on the people of gaza. there must be a condemnation from the eu of this assault. it should go beyond words. the eu-israel association agreement should be suspended. it is clear that international imperialism will not provide a just solution here. the only solution will be found on the basis of a joint struggle of the palestinian masses together with the arab masses generally, and ordinary israeli workers and poor who share the same enemy of the israeli capitalist elite and the right-wing establishment in a joint struggle for a secular, socialist palestine with a capital in east jerusalem, alongside a secular, socialist israel, part of a socialist confederation of the region.
madam president, the raids on the palestinian stations in ramallah al-watan tv and al-quds educational tv by israeli defence forces on 29 february were unwarranted attacks on the freedom of the palestinian media. the fact that the idf confiscated computer equipment, including hard drives and other files, seems to contradict the claim that the reason for the raid was that the station’s transmitters interfered with air traffic signals at ben gurion airport. both televisions were reputable, they had been broadcasting for many years and indeed the eu has worked with both stations in the past. moreover, the raids took place in area a, which is under the control of the palestinian authority. israeli incursions into this area serve only to undermine the nation-building efforts of the palestinian authorities and hinder the peace process in the region that we are all striving towards. the eu must act to ensure that the israelis return all of the equipment and we must support the tv stations in their efforts to continue broadcasting. finally, strong words and resolutions are not sufficient. we have an obligation to ensure consistency between our policy resolutions on the one hand and our external actions and bilateral arrangements on the other. i commend the resolution.
madam president, bahrain is not the worst country in the world, nor is it the poorest, nor is it the most undemocratic, nor is it the most backward. nevertheless, the issues we are discussing here today are of the gravest import and we would hope that as a result of our resolution pressure might be brought to bear on the bahraini authorities so they make the necessary reforms. the establishment of the bahraini independent commission of inquiry is welcome but, unless it is seen to have implementation measures which will bring concrete results, it will not be of any value, especially in bringing people who have been guilty of human rights violations to justice. also bahrain needs to establish the right for peaceful protests. those who have been arrested for engaging in peaceful protests must be freed; in particular those who have lost their jobs because of being involved in peaceful protests must have their jobs given back. finally, the first world itself must desist from selling military equipment to bahrain until these measures are implemented. má dhéantar sin, déanfaimid dul chun cinn. go raibh maith agat.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank charles tannock for this report. sometimes i think that, when we look back on this period of history, people will not just look at the economic turmoil but they will look at the fact that the berlin wall came down suddenly and miraculously in 1989; and here we are, with 10 new member states such a short time after that, talking about montenegro joining the european union, given the recent history of the former yugoslavia. this is indeed miraculous and it is what we need in europe and is what the whole foundation of europe was about from the very beginning. i welcome this. i welcome the progress that has been made by montenegro in the way they have addressed this issue so far, but the european union is open to any european country which is a democracy and can take on the responsibilities of membership. i raise this issue only because it is a difficult issue for smaller member states. at some stage we have to again look at the institutional issues. can we continue to expand in the way we are expanding, for example, and have a commission with an ever-increasing number of commissioners? in my country the answer to that is ‘yes’, because small countries guard this with great jealousy. but if this question is to be addressed – and i am sure it is on the agenda somewhere – let it be addressed in such a way that it is not a power grab by large member states. this is the one place where member states, irrespective of their size, have equality, and i would ask the commissioner to keep that in mind. i do welcome the progress that has been made and it is great to see that the reasoning behind the origins of the european union is still alive and well, and that we are broadening and deepening and making this continent a stable place for the future and a place where we can conduct our affairs in a more united way internationally.
mr president, corporate governance by self-regulation is clearly not working. the financial crisis is evidence of this, if it were needed. since 2008 parliament and the council have taken responsibility, and agreed a raft of measures to better regulate the financial services sector. the process has started and needs to continue, but equally there needs to be a complete overhaul of the entire corporate governance framework. when confronted with corporate governance scandals too often the response is that these were isolated cases, things are different now, but sadly this is not the case. i am concerned that the report that we have in front of us, while it is welcome, does not go far enough. i believe that we need to move beyond the mere ‘comply or explain’ principle. we need a system of clear binding rules and sanctions, particularly on issues such as workers’ rights and gender balance. making good corporate governance is not an optional extra. for that reason i cannot support the report as presented and will be supporting the amendment from the s&d group and the greens.
mr president, companies that see themselves as enterprises in the broader sense of the word, beyond the short-term maximisation of values for shareholders, are the ones that generate true value for their employees, their communities, the environment and the eu’s exchequers. light-touch and self-regulation approaches have proved disastrous in the financial world, with consequences we will have to live with, and suffer through, for the foreseeable future. the conspicuous absence of proposals from the commission on employees’ representation and engagement with stakeholders is most regrettable. gender diversity is not only an imperative in terms of equality, but it also makes economic sense as it has been demonstrated that companies with a significant female presence at executive levels fare far better than average. simultaneous membership of several company boards is patently incompatible with diligent work and flies in the face of the outrageous astronomical remuneration levels enjoyed, often regardless of performance. in the context of countries currently assisted by bailouts we must work to prevent the misuse of public monies due to poor corporate governance.
mr president, the recent mahon tribunal legal inquiry in ireland, which lasted 15 years, has found that former irish commissioner, pádraig flynn, took substantial corrupt payments from property developers for his personal benefit. pádraig flynn was ireland’s european commissioner from 1993 until 1999. he has now disgraced ireland’s good name in europe. he should no longer receive his sizeable pension from the european commission. under the commission’s own code of conduct, a former commissioner has at all times a duty to behave with integrity and, if not, can be deprived of his right to a pension. these rules should now also be enforced retroactively. now more than ever the eu must be seen by the irish people to be on the side of the ordinary citizen.
mr president, right now ireland is implementing austerity measures to bring our fiscal deficit under control but concurrently we are being asked to shoulder the cost of bailing out our banks. this will cost us eur 47 billion – for just one bank – from four and a half million people; the largest bank bailout in history. we made the initial mistake of guaranteeing our banks and then the ecb insisted that irish taxpayers would take the hit for speculative bondholders. that same ecb is now saying that on top of our extremely difficult fiscal correction we must pay eur 3.1 billion by 31 march this year and for many years to come. that type of payment will bring us to our knees and is asking the impossible. it will send our debt-to-gnp ratio spiralling to 150% and condemn the irish economy to years and years of stagnation. so how can we ever hope to pay back our debts? the debt must be restructured. the imf agree; virtually all independent economists agree; and it is time for the ecb to stop dragging its heels and acknowledge that ireland needs measures which will provide some prospect of survival.
mr president, the irish minister for the environment and local government is re-examining the structure of the local action groups implementing the rural development programme. there has been talk that the local action groups will be integrated into the local authorities. while no concrete proposals have been announced, in my experience any proposal to integrate the local action groups into the local authority structure would be both legally problematic and ineffective. such a move would override the leader programme’s bottom-up approach based on the independence group’s best ability to identify and respond to needs on the ground. i fail to see how a bureaucratic structure such as a local authority would suit it. moreover partial integrations such as the integration of enterprise functions into the local authorities would disrupt the coherent approach envisaged by the rural development programme. the commission should strongly discourage any such move by national authorities in relation to the rural development programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to say that i welcome the commission’s proposals for transitional measures to ensure the continuation of food aid to the most deprived persons in the union. currently food aid is being provided to 13 million people suffering from poverty in 19 member states. at one level this indicates how far we have to go in alleviating poverty and the huge challenges we still face. while the provision of food aid itself is certainly not sufficient to alleviate poverty, it can be one piece of the jigsaw, and indeed for those who receive food aid it is an essential piece. i agree with commissioner rehn that those who are likely to suffer from poverty expect a certain level of solidarity from the eu, and while i heard his positive comments about the european globalisation fund, unfortunately his views are not shared by many member states. i see that eight member states have voted to scrap this fund or have said that we should do so. so, while there is commission support and parliament support for the continuation of this fund, this same level of support is certainly not forthcoming at council level. it also seems that this programme we are discussing this morning is running into some difficulty with the council and it certainly begs the broader question about the future of social policy. we are all aware that one of the five priorities of the eu 2020 strategy is to reduce poverty. hopefully the commission will support parliament in that. commissioner, you will certainly get the support of this house for that programme.
a uachtaráin, i slí amháin is dochreidte gur gá dúinn an cheist seo a phlé anseo ar maidin. go háirithe nuair a thuigeann tú go bhfuil clú agus cáil ar an aontas eorpach maidir leis an gcabhair a thugaimid don tríú domhan: cabhair airgid, cabhair bhia agus araile. ach ag an am gcéanna, tá suas le 18 milliún saoránach in ísle brí de bharr bochtanais agus cuid díobh ag fáil bháis de bharr ocrais. dá bhrí sin tá sé de dhualgas orainne cabhrú leo. is cuma cén scéim a úsáidimid – esf (ciste sóisialta na heorpa), egf (an ciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú), cap (an comhbheartas talmhaíochta) – ní chuireann sé sin isteach ar an daoine bochta. cabhair atá ag teastáil uathu. tá sé de dhualgas orainn an chabhair sin a thabhairt dóibh, ní hamháin i mbliana agus an bhliain seo chugainn, ach ar aghaidh go dtí 2020 chun na haidhmeanna atá i straitéis 2020 a bhaint amach; agus faraor is dócha go mbeidh gá dul níos faide ná 2020. tosaíodh an scéim seo i 1987, ba chóir go leanfadh sé ar aghaidh go mbeidh deireadh le hocras san aontas.
mr president, i welcome the president of the eib and indeed the good work the eib is doing in trying to combat the crisis we are in at the minute, especially their loans to smes. however, i have a question for the president: how can he guarantee that the actual loans are being given to smes? in my country at least, there is anecdotal evidence to suggest that the banks are using them to balance their own books rather than giving them to smes. that is a very important point. secondly, i particularly welcome their role in combating climate change and in putting infrastructure in place, especially interconnectors and super grids, etc. that is absolutely vital. thirdly, he mentioned the need for triple-a ratings, and we agree with that. i noticed that the eib was put on negative credit watch at the end of 2011, but i have a difficulty here as i think those who are doing the ratings do not have a triple-a reputation themselves. this is either owing to their role in the financial crisis or to the recent timing of ratings prior to council meetings, which could be seen as political interference. it would be much better if we introduced the reforms which we suggested here in parliament a few months ago.
i support parliament’s resolution in response to the eib’s 2010 annual report. the eib is one of the most important eu institutions for supporting the real economy and it must play a leading role in getting the european economy growing and creating jobs again. in 2010, the eib provided support to more than 100 000 smes across the eu. this is very welcome but we have to remember that there are 23 million smes in the eu, accounting for 98% of all enterprises and a huge number of jobs. i therefore very much welcome the resolution’s call for greater support to be provided for smes. i also look forward to the responses to the january european council call for stronger eib support for smes and infrastructure. in all of this we have to ensure that eib support for smes actually goes to the smes and does not remain with the banks. i also welcome the clear support in the resolution for the europe 2020 project bond initiative to support major european infrastructure projects, as launched in a pilot phase by the commission last october.
madam president, this report on the budget by derek vaughan is certainly a step in the right direction. i was very pleased to see such a large majority in this house vote in favour of one seat, but we in parliament have already taken some concrete steps in that direction by combining the august and september plenary sittings in strasbourg into one instead of two trips in september. next year we could look at doing the same thing for a number of other months, so that we end up with bi-monthly visits rather than two per month, which would have the effect of cutting the budget. i also voted for the procedure to verify all expenditure from the general expenditure allowance. i do not actually think that would save a great deal of money because we would probably need to employ a lot of staff to verify what was happening, but it would contribute significantly to accountability and greater transparency. finally, i believe that the establishing of a working group to take a full look at parliament’s budget and to look into travel and other costs is a positive recommendation. we must then, of course, act on the recommendations that it makes.
a uachtaráin, maidir leis an suíomh aonair vótálas i gcoinne mo ghrúpa agus ar son a bhfuil molta anseo. tá trí chúis agam leis. ar an gcéad dul síos, ag an am a bhfuil géarchéim eacnamaíochta ar siúl ar fud na heorpa, ní féidir linn eur 880 milliún in aghaidh na bliana a chaitheamh ag dul go strasbourg. an dara rud, tá sé ag éirí níos deacra taisteal go strasbourg gach uile mhí. mise mar shampla, tógann sé trí huaire an chloig déag orm chun dul ann. an tríú rud, ardaítear na praghsanna nuair a thagann na feisirí go strasbourg; praghsanna lóistín agus fiú amháin praghsanna sa pharlaimint. mar shampla, cosnaíonn sé eur 1.60 chun gloine sú oráiste a cheannach anseo. sa pharlaimint in strasbourg, cosnaíonn sé – chomh fada agus is cuimhin liom – eur 3.20. níl ciall dá laghad leis sin, dá bhrí sin a luaithe a bhíonn suíomh aonair againn is fearr dúinne é, agus is fearr don aontas eorpach agus do na saoránaigh é.
madam president, i think this report dismantling the obstacles to eu citizens’ rights is a very worthwhile report and it could prove useful to citizens. i do not agree with everything that is in it but certainly, as a member of the committee on petitions and indeed in my own general work as an mep, i am very conscious of the problems and obstacles that are faced by citizens when they are trying to exercise their right to free movement and indeed that of their families as well. now in this context i voted for the first part of amendment 1 on freedom of movement for citizens but the second part of amendment 1 gave me some problems because i had some concerns about its wording when it asked that we recognise freedom of movement for all eu citizens, etc. on the basis of mutual recognition. i am very happy to support directive 2004/38/ec, where freedom of movement for family members is guaranteed on the basis of legislation of the host member state but not on any other basis. i also support that this directive should be strictly applied, as that will eliminate some of the obstacles i spoke of, when people are trying to exercise their rights to free movement, but i am not prepared to go beyond that.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór iarrachtaí a chur ar bun chun go mbeadh cúrsaí aerthaistil níos éasca, níos éifeachtaí agus níos sábháilte do mhuintir uile an ae. tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le nósanna imeachta gearáin a chomhchuibhiú agus meicníochtaí sásaimh ar chur ar fáil ar mhaithe leis na haerphaisinéirí sin a mbíonn deacrachtaí nó fadhbanna acu i dtaca le gearáin, le moilleanna agus le heitiltí a chuirtear ar ceal. molaim an rapóirtéir as ucht a mholtaí maidir le cleachtais trádála i dtaca le srianta ar bhagáiste cábáin a chomhchuibhiú, ionas go mbeadh aerphaisinéirí á gcosaint ó shrianta éagothroma iomadúla, go háirithe i gcás bagáiste cábáin agus earraí a cheannaítear i siopaí an aerfoirt. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le haird ar leith a tharraingt ar chás paisinéirí atá faoi mhíchumas nó faoi mhíchumas luaineachta agus tacaím leis na forálacha a bhaineann le cosaint níos fearr a thabhairt do chearta na bpaisinéirí sin. ní foláir cearta aerthaistil mhuintir an ae a neartú agus ní mór go mbeadh caighdeán an-ard seirbhíse i bhfeidhm ag an earnáil aerthaistil san eoraip agus iad ag freastal ar aerphaisinéirí san ae.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán leis an tuarascáil seo maidir le cearta aerphaisinéirí. tá an tuarascáil ag iarraidh ar aerlínte eolas níos fearr agus cúnamh láithreach ar an láthair ar chur ar fail d’aerphaisinéirí a bhíonn i bponc toisc moill nó cealú ar eitilt. anuas air sin, tá an tuarascáil ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún eorpach comhchuibhiú a dhéanamh ar na rialacha maidir le bagáiste cábáin.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which provides a first step towards ensuring fairer arrangements for air passengers who are stranded or delayed. the inadequate nature of existing legislation was highlighted by the volcano ash crisis in 2010, and today’s vote begins the process of rectifying the shortcomings. i hope the commission will incorporate this report’s very logical approach when updating the relevant regulation later this year. this report also proposes other new measures which will benefit eu citizens, such as the right to amend internet bookings free of charge and the harmonisation of hand-luggage rules. finally, the report calls for highly desirable new rules on accessibility for people with disabilities and reduced mobility.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s approval of the proposal to amend the 2007 decision establishing the european refugee fund (erf). the unchr estimates that over 170 000 people will need to be resettled in 2012, whereas the eu at present resettles fewer than 5 000 annually, compared to over 80 000 in the us. ireland is one of the eu member states that already takes part on a voluntary basis in resettlement programmes for refugees who have been granted refugee status in third countries. the revised decision should encourage more member states to take part in resettling refugees next year, the final year of the current erf, by increasing the amount of financial support member states receive from the erf for resettlements and by enlarging the list of those whose resettlement will be financed by the erf next year to include vulnerable people such as children, women at risk, unaccompanied minors, persons with serious medical needs, etc. i would encourage all member states to notify the commission by the agreed deadline of 1 may of the number of refugees they will resettle next year.
in writing. − i endorse the new regulation on the over-the-counter derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. derivatives are contracts that derive their value from price fluctuations on linked stocks, bonds, exchange or interest rates. these contracts, negotiated over the counter, were one of the main causes of the 2008-2009 financial crisis, with 80 % traded bilaterally, off-exchange and with no clearing. by requiring all standardised derivates contracts to be centrally cleared, this regulation is a step forward in terms of transparency and stability in financial markets. it fills a regulatory gap and, after the recent agreement on the short-selling of credit default swaps, adds another brick to the wall of better financial regulation. all relevant information on derivative contracts will be reported to national and european authorities, thereby giving regulators a full picture of derivate markets traded both on- and off-exchange. i am disappointed that the council refused the ep’s proposal to give a stronger role to the european securities and markets authority (esma) in authorising clearing houses but i would hope this could be revisited in the planned review after three years.
in writing. − this report outlines several possible means by which savings can be made in parliament’s expenditure for 2013. i supported this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report due to the use of the crisis derogation in the application. i believe this derogation is very useful when helping workers mitigate the effects of the crisis. i also believe this money will be well used in the construction sector in spain which has experienced a fall in production in eight consecutive quarters from 2009 to 2011.
in writing. − i support the assistance this report will provide, to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 642 030 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the construction sector in spain.
in writing. − following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament became a co-legislator in the eu and its powers are now on a par with those of the european council in the ordinary legislative, and budgetary, procedure. although this report proposes the abolition of council question time during parliament part-sessions, i welcome the decision to retain the option of putting questions to the council on matters relating to responsibilities other than those linked to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. − i very much welcome the council’s decision to grant serbia eu candidate status. the eu should start negotiations with serbia as soon as possible, provided that serbia continues with its reform process, particularly in relation to strengthening democracy and the rule of law and protecting the fundamental rights of minorities. the eu should continue to encourage and support serbia in delivering on reforms. i would highlight in particular paragraphs 45-46 of the resolution, which welcome president tadić’s support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of bosnia and herzegovina. i would reiterate the call to the serbian government to ensure that their direct relations with the authorities of the republika srpska are in line with this stated support and do not undermine the integrity, sovereignty, competences and effective functioning of the institutions of the state of bosnia and herzegovina. serbia should support political initiatives in bosnia and herzegovina that are aimed at reforming and strengthening the country’s institutions and encourage all its political leaders to reach a consensus on strengthening state-level institutions. bosnia and herzegovina can only move towards the eu as a single country and the undermining of state institutions will only serve to disadvantage all its citizens.
in writing. − i support the commission’s positive agenda to instil a new dynamism into the eu-turkish process for turkey’s accession to the eu. turkey should be able to join the eu when it fulfils the copenhagen criteria and adopts and applies the acquis communautaire. i welcome the ongoing democratisation process taking place in turkey and the very positive foreign policy role the country is playing. i particularly want to acknowledge the help it is providing to refugees from syria. the commission is correct to open the negotiating chapters on judicial reform and fundamental rights early on and to close them at the very end. i am particularly concerned about media reform, freedom of expression, the anti-terror law and the continued interference in legal political activities, including the ongoing trials of elected public representatives. turkey should provide for full recognition of all its ethnic and religious communities, acknowledge the inclusive nature of modern citizenship and promote the constitutional protection of mother-tongue language rights. it should also guarantee equal rights for women, zero tolerance of violence against women and children, and the broadest possible access to education.
in writing. − i welcome the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank and the bank’s approach in backing-up activities in the economic development and stimulation of employment across the eu’s member states.
madam president, i welcome this report and would like to congratulate the rapporteur, richard howitt. there are two issues in this report that i specifically want to address. first of all, the importance of the eu seeking accountability for breaches of international law, to which baroness ashton has already referred. in this respect i want to offer my full support for amendment 4 in relation to gaza and the occupied palestinian territories. as i have said previously in this house, i believe that the eu must demonstrate coherence between its policies and policy resolutions on the one hand, and our external and bilateral arrangements on the other. secondly, i would like to raise the issue of lgbt rights, and specifically the issue of gender identity. i specifically want to support amendments 7 and 8, which i believe would strengthen the report in this regard. i support the call for the withdrawal of gender identity from the list of mental and behavioural disorders. it is unacceptable that transgender people have to be diagnosed with a mental disorder in order to have their identity recognised and have a passport issued in their new identity. that is a complete violation of the rights of transgender people.
a uachtaráin, creidim gur bunchloch tógála i dtéarnamh geilleagrach na héireann agus sa limistéar euro é daingniú an chonartha fhioscaigh. the economic problems facing europe in recent years has required a response across a range of different policy areas. le cúpla bliain anuas, tá rialacha úra á gcur i bhfeidhm ag an aontas chun rialáil na hearnála seirbhísí airgeadais a fheabhsú. agus anois tá conradh á mholadh ag an aontas a thabharfadh seasmhacht bhreise don limistéar euro. gan limistéar euro atá seasmhach, tá sé an-deacair an téarnamh geilleagrach a spreagadh. chruthódh seasmhacht airgeadais na coinníollacha eacnamaíochta a bhíonn ag teastáil chun poist a chruthú. beidh teacht ag na tíortha a dhaingníonn an conradh fioscach ar an sásra cobhsaíochta eorpach. beidh tábhacht ar leith ag baint leis an ghné sin den chonradh d’éirinn nuair a bheidh sí ag iarraidh filleadh ar na margaí airgeadais idirnáisiúnta. ní mór dóibh siúd atá ag cur i gcoinne an chonartha a léiriú conas mar a éireoidh le héirinn filleadh ar na margaí gan a bheith mar bhaill de sin.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá faoi ábhar atá ag cur isteach ormsa, ar fheisirí éireannacha agus go háirithe ar mo chomhghleacaí phil prendergast ó na sóisialaithe. dúmharaíodh saoránach éireannach ag fórsaí na bolaive díreach trí bliana ó shin anois. despite what the bolivian authorities said, it would appear that michael dwyer was unarmed, yet he was shot in the heart and three times in the back by the bolivian authorities. naturally the family want answers to questions but, despite three years having elapsed, the bolivian authorities are not willing to grant an open, independent, international inquiry into the situation. his parents martin and caroline and his sister aisling were here last week. in fairness, they got a good hearing here in parliament, especially from lady ashton, who is supportive of a démarche between both countries, but we need an independent, international open inquiry. we are giving eur 234 million in aid to the bolivian authorities and that should be used to force them to give closure to this situation and grant the inquiry.
mr president, as a member of dublin’s north inner city drugs task force, i have received an increasing number of reports of violence, harassment and intimidation targeted against the families – including elderly parents – of drug users and against addicts over drug debts, very often involving small sums of money. in 2008, the dial to stop drug dealing and threats service was launched in ireland. it provides a confidential service for reporting drug dealing. since then, there have been over 9 000 calls to the service, resulting in two and half thousand reports to the irish police’s drugs unit. i would like to urge the commission to now consider introducing a common europe-wide dial to stop drug dealing and threats service, similar to the europe-wide numbers for missing children, child help lines, crime victims and non-emergency medical calls. i would also urge the commission to support and fund this very useful public service under the eu drugs action plan, the daphne programme, and other similar eu initiatives, so that we can deal with this issue on a transnational and europe-wide basis.
madam president, in these times of austerity, i think we all have to be sensitive to the social security needs of citizens in many of our countries. for that reason i could not bring myself to vote against this report, so i abstained. the reason i abstained is that there are issues of concern to ireland contained in this report which have not yet been addressed and, while they are outstanding, i think it would make it difficult in the light of subsidiarity to fully support this report in its current format. that in general was the reservation which i wished to express, not that there should not be solidarity with people who are in need – i strongly support that sort of approach.
madam president, i think actions must now match the fine words of this parliament if it is not to make a mockery of itself. the report recommends that whenever a gross breach of human rights is committed by a partner country with which there is an international agreement, such as the partnership and cooperation agreement, the eu should take bolder steps, including possible temporary suspension of the agreement. surely this is the case with kazakhstan, where 37 oil workers are currently facing show trials for their alleged responsibility in the tragic events in zhanaozen last year. members of the zhanaozen-2011 committee have said that several defendants in that trial had given false testimony under torture and under threats to their families, including rosa tuletaeva, who says that police hung her up by her hair and threatened her family, and tanatar kaliev, who claims he was beaten while in knb detention and that his son was threatened. finally, vadim kuramshin is currently before the court as we speak. he is one of the country’s foremost human rights defenders; he has already spent more than 10 years in jail as a result of his courageous defence of prisoners’ rights and struggle for social justice. he was arrested on trumped-up charges at the moment that he was going to a press conference to reveal corruption in the general prosecutor’s office. he and the others should be released immediately.
mr president, i wish to say that i voted against the second part of amendment 93, although i normally vote for sexual and reproductive health and have already put an explanation on the record of this parliament regarding where i draw the line between that and sexual and reproductive health and rights, including abortion. however, i abstained in this case because i did not think it was necessary to stress, in particular, the need to promote sexual and reproductive health, having already dealt in the first part with the need for adequate gynaecological and obstetric care, as defined by the who. i did not understand why this was taken out in particular, but i would also have thought that anybody sensitive to human rights issues in this house would look at the genocidal destruction of women, one hundred million of whom are missing from the population as a result of gender-based abortion. surely that is something we are all against. are human rights only politically-correct human rights, or are we against women being destroyed because they are women? where is the socialist and liberal voice in this house on this gendercide? why are people so quiet about this? why are women being destroyed because they are women, and where are the voices of those who say that they are interested in human rights?
in writing. − in light of the current economic context, it is incumbent on us all to be sensitive to the social security needs of citizens across the eu. however, there are issues of concern to ireland contained in this report which have not yet been addressed. i abstained from the final vote.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, fearaim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo atá ag iarraidh freagairt a thabhairt ar bhuarthaí mhuintir na héireann maidir leis an gceart chun na beatha, an teaghlach agus an t-oideachas, maidir le cánachas, agus maidir le cúrsaí slándála agus cosanta, agus tá aitheantas inti ar an achainí ó éirinn go gcuirfí ‘ráthaíochtaí dlíthiúla cuí’ i bhfeidhm ó thaobh chonradh liospóin de. is léir gur i bhfoirm mínithe atá na ráthaíochtaí sin, go bhfuil sé mar aidhm acu aghaidh a thabhairt ar bhuarthaí mhuintir na héireann agus nach ndéanann siad athrú ar bith ar mhórábhar na gconarthaí. ní mór, áfach, go dtabharfaí aitheantas oifigiúil i scríbhinn do bhuarthaí mhuintir na héireann agus fearaim fáilte roimh an gcomhshocrú an prótacal maidir leis an imní atá ar mhuintir na héireann faoi chonradh liospóin a shíniú agus a dhaingniú taobh le conradh aontachais na cróite.
in writing. − almost three years ago, the european council gave a commitment to the irish people that they would address their concerns regarding the lisbon treaty to safeguard the right to life, family, education, taxation and security and defence. this proposal represents the culmination of that promise. i therefore welcome its adoption, and its eventual ratification alongside the croatian accession treaty.
in writing. − in june 2009, the european council adopted a decision on the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon, which included guarantees and assurances on the questions of the right to life, family and education, taxation, and security and defence. these guarantees were intended to be for clarification and explanatory purposes, and did not change the substance of the treaties. the objective of the irish protocol is that it would be ratified alongside the croatian accession treaty, though it is a separate legal instrument. in substance, the protocol would simply restate, without modification, the language of the june 2009 guarantees. i welcome the clarification of these guarantees and voted in favour of the report.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh chinneadh pharlaimint na heorpa glacadh leis an bprótacal maidir le buarthaí mhuintir na héireann i dtaca le conradh liospóin. is ionstraim dhlíthiúil ar leith é an prótacal, a chlúdaíonn saincheisteanna cosúil leis an gceart chun na beatha, an teaghlach agus oideachas, mar aon le cúrsaí cánachais, slándála agus cosanta. is chun tola mhuintir na héireann é an cinneadh seo. tá sé ráite go soiléir sa phrótacal nach bhfuil tionchar ar bith ag conradh liospóin ar a bhfuil i mbunreacht na héireann maidir leis an teaghlach agus an ceart chun na beatha. aithníonn an prótacal inniúlacht na mballstát ó thaobh cúrsaí cánachais de. tá tábhacht ar leith ag baint leis sin mar gheall ar shaincheist reatha na cánach corparáidí. anuas air sin, tá cosaint ann sa phrótacal do neodracht mhíleata na héireann. daingneoidh na ballstáit ar fad an prótacal nuair a aontaíonn an chróit leis an aontas eorpach an 1 iúil 2013.
in writing. − i abstained on the two reports on the insertion of the so called irish ‘guarantees’ into the eu treaties. i could not vote in favour as these ‘guarantees’ were nothing more than a cynical attempt to deceive the irish people. these ‘guarantees’ were put together in an attempt to give some political cover to the irish and eu establishment, to undemocratically cast aside the will of the irish people and re-arrange a second referendum to force the treaty through. these ‘guarantees’ were also used to give the impression that the concerns of the irish people were listened to and the treaty’s content was changed in some way. this was a lie. the content of the lisbon treaty is completely unchanged. the treaty remained a treaty that undermines workers’ rights, supports privatisation, erodes democracy and further militarises the eu. the political establishment also lied in saying that lisbon ratification will create jobs and economic recovery. since the referendum we have seen the continued haemorrhaging of jobs, with 80 000 jobs being lost and continued destruction of the economy and people’s lives due to the implementation of neo-liberal austerity policies which the lisbon treaty supports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as a whole and support the many positive measures within the text. the european union’s policies should be consistently exemplary within the eu, as well as being in line with fundamental values and principles. i could not vote against amendment 7 outlining positive action in respect of lgbt rights and combating human rights’ violations on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity in some parts of the world. i abstained from the vote on the second part of paragraph 93 as i did not believe that it was necessary to stress, in particular, the need to promote sexual and reproductive health, having already dealt in the first part of the paragraph with the need for adequate gynaecological and obstetric care, as defined by the world health organisation.
mr president, i would like to say to mr barroso that the gulf between your rhetoric and the policies your commission is implementing is so great that the entire european economy may yet fall into it. you talk about solidarity, but with the troika you implement policies that threaten the very basis of society in ireland, portugal and greece. you talk about jobs, but because of your policies, unemployment is at the highest level since the introduction of the eurozone: 25 million people across the eu. you talk about sustainable growth, but you want to institutionalise austerity across europe with the ‘austerity treaty’, which will turn the recession into a deep depression. i would like to ask you a few questions which i think the people of ireland, who will vote in six weeks’ time on this treaty, deserve an answer to. are you aware that, according to the commission, in 2013, 18 out of the 25 countries will have structural deficits greater than that allowed by the treaty? are you aware that meeting the targets will mean cuts and extra taxes across europe of over eur 166 billion? in that case, how can you talk about sustainable growth? your treaty will turn europe into an economic wasteland. paul krugman was right yesterday to write about the apparent determination of european leaders to commit economic suicide for the continent as a (…) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, marianne thyssen, for her work on this report, although i have concerns about the report itself. while my country, ireland, has constructively engaged in the ccctb process to ensure that all the arguments are looked at closely, i would like to stress two issues of eu law. one: the treaty requires unanimity in matters of taxation policy, and two: the principle of subsidiarity allows member states to keep taxation within national legislation. my main concern is that this is transgressing national competence. while the report does not specifically call for the harmonisation of tax rates (albeit amendment 10 comes close), the introduction of common rules across all member states for the calculation of the tax base of companies is nonetheless, in my view, a matter for the member states. about ten of the amendments go too far. furthermore, we are block-voting, so few choices are available. i also want to point out that i do not believe that it is necessary for us to seek another report on the merits of taxation as a form of competition. i believe former commissioner monti has dealt with that very well. lastly, rule 38a (1) of parliament’s rules of procedure on the examination of respect for the principle of subsidiarity states that ‘during the examination of a proposal for a legislative act, parliament shall pay particular attention to respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality’. i do not believe we have done so on this occasion. these are my reservations.
i scríbhinn. – is ceist coimhdeachta iad cúrsaí cánachais agus ní foláir don choimisiún agus don pharlaimint deireadh a chur lena síor-iarrachtaí inniúlacht eorpach don chánachas a thabhairt isteach go hindíreach. ní ceart go dtabharfaí níos mó airde d’iarratas na fraince agus na gearmáine ar uachtarán na comhairle cainteanna maidir leis an cccc a thabhairt chun críche roimh dheireadh 2012 ná mar a thabharfaí do thrombhuarthaí na mballstát sin a bhfuil imní orthu maidir le tionscnamh an cccc. ní cóir tionscnamh cccc na fraince-gearmáine a úsáid chun an bonn a bhaint d’inniúlacht aonair na mballstát, faoi sciathán iarrachtaí dul i ngleic leis an ngéarchéim eacnamaíoch. ní chuirfeadh cccc le dea-fheidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair ar chor ar bith, agus d’fhéadfadh sé fiú go ndéanfaí damáiste do gheilleagair bheaga oscailte cosúil le héirinn dá bharr. chuirfeadh athrú ar an ráta cánach corparáide isteach go mór ar ghné láidir do gheilleagar na héireann atá ar chroílár an téarnaimh agus an chumais fáis sa tír. de réir staidéar a rinne an european centre for economic studies le déanaí maidir leis an cccc a chur i bhfeidhm san eoraip is neamhphraiticiúil, do-churtha i bhfeidhm agus neamh-inmhianaithe go polaitiúil a bheadh sé.
in writing. – i intend to vote against this report. the governments of the netherlands, bulgaria, ireland, uk, malta, sweden, poland, romania and slovakia all raised concerns regarding the commission ccctb proposal. unfortunately the majority of 18 member states was not reached in order to require the commission to re-examine their proposal. the argument in favour of this report is that the level of the tax rate will remain a decision for national parliaments. the objective of the report is to enhance the system of taxation of companies, not to harmonise tax rates. it is respectfully submitted that harmonisation of the tax base and the tax base rules is a form of harmonisation. the report explicitly underlines that ccctb only concerns the tax base, not corporate tax rates. however, it does not exclude that, in the future, further steps may be taken towards tax rate harmonisation. i strongly oppose amendment 10 which outlines that, although the harmonisation of tax rates is not at issue now, we must not entirely exclude the possibility for the future. this only serves to further aggravate subsidiary concerns already espoused by member states.
madam president, colleagues, i have serious concerns about the eu-us pnr agreement on the grounds of scope, purpose, methods and necessity. in my view, the necessity and effectiveness of wholesale automated transfers of us-bound pnr data for counter-terrorism purposes has not been demonstrated. however, we need to face the fact that the united states is a sovereign country entitled to demand the information it deems necessary for its security from those approaching its airspace. i am convinced that, at this juncture, home affairs commissioner malmström has negotiated the strongest possible legal guarantees on behalf of the union and our citizens. for all my reservations in this context, a rejection of this agreement would not prevent the flow of data to the us under bilateral agreements, which would offer our citizens little by way of guarantees of data protection. this has to be taken into account if we, as a parliament, are to take a sensible and responsible stance.
mr president, this passenger name records agreement represents an attack on civil liberties and the right to privacy. it does so using the trojan horse we have seen before of the threat of terrorism, the same trojan horse that has been used to justify so-called ‘extraordinary rendition’ and what happens in guantanamo bay. the agreement will not only hand over the personal details of european citizens travelling to the us to the department of homeland security, but it will in effect give this agency free rein to access information on passengers as they see fit. it will allow for data to be stored indefinitely and to be used in court cases even if they are not related in any way to terrorism. the complete lack of democratic checks and balances in this agreement will leave citizens with no right to access, correct or control the data which this agency holds. the commission has in no way demonstrated that these measures are proportionate or even useful in combating terrorism, nor have any guarantees been given that the us will not forward the data to third countries. i, together with my political group, will continue to fight to have this agreement revoked.
mr president, i am sorry that our colleague from ireland, mr murphy, has left the chamber because, like his predecessor here, he continues to jump on the populist bandwagon. i support the us-eu pnr agreement, given that it concerns the transfer and use of personal data and the specific and detailed provisions dealing with their privacy, the processing of personal data, data security, transparency and accountability. it also makes provision for redress for breaches of the agreement’s provisions. these provisions have been developed very carefully and are the result of extensive cooperation between the us and the eu authorities, something which is very welcome. these forms of protection build on the additional protection which we have in place, and i agree with ms swinburne. we have had no terrorist attacks since 9/11, madrid and london because of these forms of protection, which build on the existing mechanism while at the same time having transparency and protecting the rights of the public in relation to their personal data. i greatly welcome the agreement, and this is a very significant day in terms of combating terrorism.
mr president, i wish to give an explanation on my own behalf and on behalf of mr higgins and miss mcguinness. i would like to thank mrs thyssen for this report, but we have concerns about its contents. while ireland has constructively engaged in the ccctb process, the treaty requires unanimity in matters of taxation policy, and the principle of subsidiarity allows member states to keep taxation under national legislation. my main concern is that this is transgressing on national competence. while the report does not specifically call for the harmonisation of tax rates – although amendment 10 comes close – the introduction of common rules across all member states for the calculation of the tax of companies is nonetheless a matter for member states. i would also like to point out that rule 38a (1) of this parliament’s rules of procedure states that ‘during the examination of a proposal for a legislative act, parliament shall pay particular attention to respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.’ i do not believe in this case that this report meets that.
a uachtaráin, mhínigh ár gceannaire ar fheisirí fhine gael, gay mitchell, gur vótálamar i gcoinne ár ngrúpa maidir leis an dtuarascáil seo. go bunúsach, mar a dúirt a lán feisirí eile, is é cumhacht na mballstát é córas cánach a leagadh síos, agus ní féidir é sin a athrú gan iad go léir a bheith ag labhairt d’aon ghuth. is fada uainn an lá sin. b’fhéidir amach anseo go mbeidh coinníollacha ann lenar féidir linn córas comónta a leagadh síos, nuair a bheidh caighdeán ard maireachtála timpeall na heorpa ar fad. b’fhéidir nuair a bheidh an conradh fioscach i bhfeidhm go mbeidh seans ansin againn féachaint arís ar na moltaí maithe atá anseo. ach go dtí sin, táimid ina choinne agus tá sé róluath chun rudaí mar sin a thabhairt isteach.
mr president, on behalf of my irish colleagues, seán kelly, gay mitchell and mairead mcguinness, i want to commend the work done by astrid lulling in relation to this particular report. i have to say she has done a commendable job. she has managed to dilute a considerable number of proposals from the commission which are totally unacceptable. as has been said by other speakers, it would play havoc with agriculture, public transport and the exports of my own country, which is a 90% export country: an island off an island. i am delighted that amendment 53 was accepted, and by a huge majority – 524 for and 140 against. the rejection of the harmonisation of taxes on the purchase of cars is totally unacceptable. what has happened here is that we are now seeing the benefits of the lisbon treaty. in their acceptance of the lisbon treaty, the irish people were given assurances that taxation would not be interfered with by the eu and therefore, as mr kelly has said previously, the proposal to interfere with taxation is totally unacceptable to us. as mrs swinburne has said, a good balance needs to be struck between the environment on the one hand and consumers and industry on the other. the eu should not try to interfere with taxation. this is matter solely for individual member states.
a uachtaráin, mar a dúirt kay swinburne, ag féachaint ar theideal na tuarascála seo cheapfá go vótálfadh gach feisire ina fabhar, mar tá súil againn ar aon nós go bhfuil gach feisire i bhfabhar troid i gcoinne mímhacántacht chánach agus daoine a bheith ag éalú ó cháin dhleathach a íoc. cén fáth mar sin nár vótálamar i bhfabhar? cé go bhfuil meas againn ar jean-paul gauzès, is dóigh linn go ndeachaigh sé thar fóir leis na moltaí; go háirithe ag tabhairt isteach moltaí nach raibh baint againn leo, cosúil le cáin chomónta nó ‘ccctb’, comórtas cánach agus socruithe idir tíortha éagsúla. ní féidir linn glacadh leis na moltaí sin agus vótálamar i gcoinne na tuarascála dá bharr sin. leanaimis ar aghaidh leis an troid i gcoinne na mímhacántachta agus éalú. mar fhocal scoir, in ionad domsa dul isteach le mo chairde ón mbreatain, b’fhéidir go dtiocfadh siadsan – go háirithe na conservatives – ar ais san epp mar a raibh siad tráth. tá cuireadh rompu.
in writing. − this report is welcomed as a flexible solution to problems posed by financial instability. it would make little sense, either to the eu or member states, for infrastructural projects which are currently under construction, and part-funded by eu funds to go uncompleted. though the irish government does not intend availing of the new risk-sharing provisions, the more flexible solution sought and achieved on this occasion is noted and welcome.
in writing. − this proposal aims to assist member states in receipt of financial assistance under programmes (currently portugal, romania and ireland as well as greece) in addressing serious obstacles in raising the private financing needed in order to implement infrastructure and productive investment projects which can only be part-financed by public funds. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i am not convinced that the case for the wholesale automated transfer of us-bound pnr data has been proven. however, i believe that the commission has negotiated the best agreement that is politically possible at the current time – the scope has been narrowed, retention periods reduced and there has been some movement on the ‘push/pull’ issue. rejection of this agreement would have done nothing to stop the flow of data to the us. indeed, it is unlikely that the 27 member states could produce more satisfactory arrangements through the negotiation of 27 bilateral arrangements with the us. eu citizens’ rights are better protected through this agreement and ratification does provide a single clear eu legal framework, with ep oversight, that can be reviewed. i would request that the commission ensure a rigorous and robust assessment of this pnr agreement and report back to the parliament on this review.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i bhfabhar an chomhaontaithe idir an ae agus stáit aontaithe mheiriceá maidir le sonraí taifid ainmneacha paisinéirí. ar an gcéad dul síos, is é ár dtuairim go gcuirfidh an comhaontú seo go mór le hiarrachtaí dul i ngleic le sceimhlitheoireacht agus le tromchoireacht thrasnáisiúnta. creidimid go bhfuil forálacha mar is ceart agus cuí i gceist leis a mhéid a bhaineann le cúrsaí príobháideachais, sonraí pearsanta a phróiseáil, slándáil sonraí, trédhearcacht agus freagracht. is anuas ar an meicníocht cosanta do mhuintir na heorpa atá cumhdaithe i dlí an ae maidir le cosaint sonraí atá na forálacha sin. faoin gcomhaontú, beidh an mheicníocht um ghearáin atá i bhfeidhm faoi dhlí na stát aontaithe ar fáil do mhuintir na heorpa chomh maith.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposed agreement on the use and transfer of passenger name records (pnr) to the united states department of homeland security which is aimed at combating terrorism and serious transnational crime.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on the parliament’s consultative resolution on the ccctb. i agree that cooperation among tax authorities can reduce costs and excessive administrative burdens for businesses operating cross-border within the eu (amendment 1), that tax obstacles can be particularly severe for smes operating cross-border (amendment 3) and that member states should retain the power to adopt certain incentives for businesses (amendment 9). however, i could not accept the clauses making the ccctb compulsory and on moving towards the harmonisation of rates. under the eu treaties, taxation is a matter of national competence where the principle of unanimity applies. discussion on this issue has to have regard to the needs of geographically peripheral member states whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on their capacity to attract foreign direct investment, particularly in the current very difficult economic circumstances. the irish government, like the governments of all member states, is actively engaging in the detailed examination of this proposal because only in that way can we ensure that all of the arguments are debated in full.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i gcoinne na tuarascála agus ba mhaith linn cur go láidir i gcoinne a bhfuil sa cháipéis seo. sa chéad leagan den togra reachtach, bhí scéim dheonach á moladh ag an gcoimisiún eorpach. de réir théacs pharlaimint na heorpa, áfach, is scéim éigeantach do na ballstáit ar fad a bheadh ann nuair a bheadh idirthréimse caite. is inniúlacht náisiúnta iad cúrsaí cánachais agus ní mór don choimisiún eorpach agus do pharlaimint na heorpa cloí leis sin. faoin bprótacal breise maidir leis an imní atá ar mhuintir na héireann faoi chonradh liospóin, lenar ghlac parlaimint na heorpa inniu, is léir gurb ag na ballstáit atá an inniúlacht do chúrsaí cánachais. ní chuirfeadh cccc (comhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite) le dea-fheidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair ar chor ar bith, agus d’fhéadfadh fiú go ndéanfaí dochar do gheilleagair bheaga oscailte cosúil le héirinn dá bharr. chuirfeadh athrú ar an ráta cánach corparáide isteach go mór ar ghné láidir de gheilleagar na héireann, gné atá i gcroílár an téarnaimh agus an chumais fáis sa tír. de réir staidéir a rinne an european centre for economic studies le déanaí maidir leis an cccc a chur i bhfeidhm san eoraip, is neamhphraiticiúil, do-churtha i bhfeidhm agus neamh-inmhianaithe go polaitiúil a bheadh sé sin.
in writing. − i like many members from smaller member states voted against the ccctb report, which passed with a large majority (452+). the ccctb will lay down common rules for the calculation of the tax base applicable to companies operating in the eu. the present proposal will harmonise the calculation and apportionment of the tax base, member states will retain the power to set the tax rates; however, i am adamant that this report sets a dangerous precedent. harmonisation of the tax base and the tax base rules is still a form of harmonisation. worryingly the report refuses to exclude that further steps may be taken towards harmonisation of tax rates. the mere mention of possible harmonisation of tax rates and corporate tax only serves to further aggravate the subsidiary concerns already espoused by ireland. the lisbon treaty is very clear on this: taxation is sacrosanct and a matter for the member states alone to decide. i voted against this report and i made a determined effort to encourage other meps to do likewise.
in writing. − taxation is a matter of national competence and it is vital that the principle of unanimity in taxation is fully respected. while this report does not specifically call for the harmonisation of tax rates, the introduction of common rules across all member states for the calculation of the tax base of companies should remain a competence for member states. for this reason, i voted against the report.
in writing. − europe has to reduce co2 emissions and to provide a lead to the rest of the world when it comes to tackling climate change. i was not convinced, however, that the proposal to increase taxation levels on diesel was sufficiently thought through, especially as regards its impact on peripheral regions such as ireland, which has no direct landlinks to mainland europe. i would urge the commission to look again at this and at possible countervailing measures to ensure that the necessary action to tackle climate change does not disproportionately disadvantage peripheral areas like ireland whose prosperity to a large extent depends on exports.
in writing. − this report states that the rate of tax on a given product will combine the tax linked to co2 emissions based on energy content. although member states would still be free to set their own rates of taxation, i supported amendment 53 which deleted article 4.3 concerning differentiation e.g. petrol and diesel. this article proposed measures which could entail a substantial rise in the cost of diesel, resulting in damaging effects and a possible confliction with the directive’s aims. i supported the text as a whole.
in writing. − we voted to support this report on concrete ways to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and to support the majority of the key recommendations. however, we note with concern the inclusion of a reference to the role of ccctb in paragraph 4. while we do not agree with the inclusion of paragraph 4, we have voted to support the report overall due to several of its positive recommendations.
in writing. − i abstained on the resolution ‘call for concrete ways to combat tax fraud and tax evasion’. i absolutely agree that tax fraud and tax evasion by big business needs to be tackled. it is scandalous that they fraudulently avoid paying taxes despite already legally getting away with a scandalously low level of taxation. i call for an increase in taxation on big business and supported amendments which called for a 25% minimum rate of corporate taxation in the eu. i support the parts of the resolution that called for an end to banking secrecy, regulation and transparency of company registries and making the tax system more effective and efficient. however, the resolution favours less tax for corporations and supports the fiscal treaty. moreover, experience shows that claims like ‘shifting tax away from labour’ in reality mean less direct taxation and more indirect taxation that hit workers and the poor hardest and are antisocial. this is seen in ireland now with the imposition of household and water taxes which is another attempt to make workers pay for the crisis of capitalism. therefore i could not vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, after the adoption of standards for security features and biometrics in passports in 2004, ireland’s first biometric passports, or e-passports, were issued in 2006. the introduction of e-passports was intended to ensure better protection against fraudulent use. personal identification contained in the biometric chip of each e-passport establishes a more reliable link between the passport and its holder. the introduction was timely. in 2010 an investigation by the irish police proved that eight irish passports had been forged and misused by israeli government operatives in the assassination of palestinian mahmoud al-mabhouh. it seems likely that the passports in question were forgeries of passports issued before 2006, as the biometric data in our passports is very difficult to forge. however, passports from other eu countries were also implicated in the cases i mentioned above. it concerns me to hear of other weaknesses in the level of passport security across the eu which could lead to similar situations arising again, and the commission should really take the concerns of parliament seriously.
mr president, this morning, here in parliament, we passed the agreement between ourselves and the united states with regard to pnr, and that should help to make travel safer for everybody. it was disconcerting to hear earlier on that 10% of french passports are falsified – even though my colleague disagrees with this. whatever the figure, it is nevertheless safe to assume that the vast majority of those in possession of falsified passports are probably criminals of one sort or another. if we can reduce the number of falsified passports we will make the world far safer and reduce an awful lot of the counterfeited goods and contraband, human trafficking and all sorts of terrorist activities. it was interesting that my colleague from ireland, ms childers, pointed out that the falsified passports or the forgeries were prior to biometrics. biometrics has a role to play and therefore we should do everything we can to make it safer and better for everybody.
mr president, the issue of less-favoured areas is of great importance to european agriculture, with just over 50% of the utilised agricultural areas in the eu classed as less-favoured. in my own member state, ireland, the total area designated as disadvantaged is almost 75% of the total land in ireland. from an economic perspective, the less-favoured area scheme is particularly significant, contributing to the support of in excess of 100 000 irish farming families whose ability to farm is restricted by the physical environment and in particular the impact of the prevailing wet, cold climatic conditions in ireland. farmers making a living in less-favoured areas face additional hurdles in trying to make a fair return for fair work. the market does not respect nor take into account the additional and costly challenges facing farmers in areas at a natural disadvantage. in this regard we must be sure that lfas under pillar 2 are adequately financed within the overall cap budget and that the principle of subsidiarity is upheld, and that member states are given the utmost flexibility to utilise the criteria in a manner that works best for their farmers and that they have the freedom to fine-tune it so as to best serve rural areas. i understand that member states have been facing delays in the preparation and submission of the maps of areas that would be eligible for less-favoured area payments and, judging from today’s debate, it would appear that some member states have refused to hand over these details. the process for delimiting and classifying these areas is proving problematic for some areas. perhaps in this regard the commission could give an indication, assistance or direction to member states, to speed up the process.
mr president, it is important to see soil-moisture balance as one of the biophysical criteria for inclusion in less favoured areas. ireland has consistently argued for this so that the effect of cool, damp climate conditions on the soil are taken into account. quite a lot of areas in my own region – limerick, cork and kerry – are affected, as well as the rest of ireland, as has been already said. can the council enlighten us as to whether it is possible to secure payments under the current less favoured area maps pending the completion of the new maps? this question is very important to ireland and i wait with interest for your answer.
mr president, we did not receive clarification from the council about the number of member states who have the information – or perhaps i missed that point. i understand that 20 member states have the information, and that 12 are willing to share it with us in camera. now, perhaps the others have discovered gold or something and are not willing to tell us this great news, but this is a highly sensitive political issue, as those who have links with the original designations know. on the other hand, without clear information, this parliament can make no decisions on lfas in relation to the reform of the common agricultural policy. i would therefore urge the council not to tell parliament that we should ask the commission for the information, rather i would ask the council to work as one and to encourage those less willing to provide the information to do so immediately. i have listened to the concerns of colleagues from other member states, and clearly this issue seems to be widespread. these payments are important for the survival of agriculture in these areas, so perhaps rather than asking us to ask more questions, i would put the question back to you.
mr president, i did not intend to speak in this debate; i was more interested in listening. i must say i find the debate rather perplexing. i would like to hear some answers to questions. first, mr nicholson mentioned the court of auditors perhaps giving the commission the run-around. i would like to know a little more about that. secondly, i found it extraordinary that mr deß pointed out that in the reclassification, germany would lose 8 million acres and it would gain 1.2 million. that seems to be extraordinary, basically at the push of a pen. thirdly, that information is available to the council and so forth and it is not freely available to the parliament. there is obviously something seriously wrong here and it needs to be addressed in the interests of fairness, in the interests of a proper cap and in the interests of agriculture in general.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, globally an estimated 80% of food is currently produced and marketed at local level. in the european union, this figure is about 20%. it is clear that shortness of food supply chains is not the solution for dealing with the wider issues of guaranteeing food security and meeting the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050. that said, shorter food supply chains do have an important role to play in the future cap, and it is certain that clearer guidelines are needed without adding increased bureaucracy for farmers. we already have a wide range of labels, such as pdo, pgi and tsg, so it is not necessarily the case that further specific labelling on this is needed. however, consumers are bombarded with so much information these days that it should at least be made clear what exactly they are buying when they buy locally-produced food. ‘local’ is a very flexible term as it means different things, in terms of distance, to different people. the basic idea that should be kept in mind about local food is simple: local food is produced as close to home as possible. local food integrates production, processing, distribution and consumption on a small scale, creating sustainable local economies and a strong connection between farm and table. in a wider context, a criticism of the cap which i come back to time and time again is that the added value of european agriculture is not fully appreciated further along the food supply chain and to a certain degree by the consumer. in this regard, locally-produced food, local markets, direct engagements with producers and on-farm business, leading to shorter distribution channels, have the potential to generate greater interaction, understanding and knowledge between consumer and producers. the future cap must be a policy that welcomes and supports innovation and entrepreneurship among farmers in their locality and also supports efforts to increase engagement with consumers and european taxpayers.
mr president, food that is truly local is an invaluable asset for local economies and communities. a recent economic study found that a given amount spent on food from local businesses generates more than twice that value for the local economy. i see locally-produced food as a matter of social cohesion and environmental sustainability, and it is also quite important in terms of food security. it is clear that current labelling regimes are not satisfactory. lax rules allow manufacturers to get away with completely misleading claims and undermine our consumers’ confidence and the right to choice. products with long supply chains must not be allowed to be simply labelled as having been produced at the point of packaging when, as my colleagues indicated, nearby cross-border products would actually qualify as local under a labelling regime that is sensible and accurate, at least from a geographical point of view. we need clarity and reliability. it is important to look into methods, ingredients, geography, traceability and corporate practices when doing so. finally, i would like to congratulate waterford, in my own constituency of munster in ireland, for applying for protected geographical indication status for waterford blaa, which is a traditional type of bread. up the déise!
mr president, i think there is a little bit of romanticism around this debate on local food. i am concerned that we would dare define this issue, so please let us be cautious on this. i come from a country – ireland – where we are massive exporters of food. we appreciate local food but we want you across the european union to regard irish food as local because you are our customers. if our definition of ‘local’ is based too much on ‘near us’, i think we will destroy the internal market for food in the european union and renationalise production to the detriment of agriculture in the union. so i think we need to be sensitive to this issue and be very careful about what we mean. could i also suggest that, rather than spoon-feed consumers, we let consumers take control themselves and ask questions. perhaps that is a better way for consumers to get what they actually want. we all know too that in terms of food production there are many ingredients and it is not possible for all of them to come from the local area.
mr president, as a former educationalist myself, i could speak all night on this, but i do not have much time. i must say this is perhaps one of the best-thought-out proposals we have had before the european parliament. i compliment the rapporteur and the commission on the challenges it poses for the third-level institutes, particularly to meet the 2020 target of 40% students going on to third level and getting a qualification. it points out the challenges. i suppose the main challenge is to link with the labour market, because that is going to be essential if we are going to be competitive on the world stage. it points out some things we need to do. one point with which i agree completely is that the gender equity situation is appalling for institutes that regard themselves as perhaps the most broadminded in the world. the emphasis on sport is very important, as is the potential in erasmus. the final point i would like to make is that we should stop talking about professors and lecturers at third level. they should see themselves as teachers. if they teach, students will learn and then the economy will benefit.
mr president, again i would like to compliment mrs ţicău, who gave a tremendous summary of where we need to go in this area and how we should get there. we are talking about a market, and there are three adjectives associated with it in the title: competitive, digital and single. they are all equally important. certainly in relation to e-government as a spearhead, there are great opportunities there in terms of e-justice, e-customer services, e-governance, e-health and also, of course, the possibility of developing e-commerce. it is a sad fact in many ways that 75% of smes do not trade outside the european union and 87% do not trade outside their own country. so the potential is vast. but as my colleague, jean-pierre audy, pointed out, the most important thing to establish is high-speed broadband across the european union. then we can create a competitive digital and single market.
in writing. – i welcome this resolution which is timely given that 2012 is designated un year of sustainable energy for all. in seeking climate justice it is important to highlight the links between access to clean, affordable, sustainable energy and gender. in the developing world, in particular, energy is vital for women’s development in terms of reducing their time burden for collecting firewood used in cooking and heating and improving their health and well-being. access to and control over clean energy sources is central to unleashing the potential of rural women. the provision of clean cook stoves can mitigate the negative environmental and health impacts while promoting women’s empowerment, as the time that would have been used to collect fuel can be used for other productive and economic activities. i would urge the commission to take concrete measures to ensure: (1) that more women to take up careers in science and technology; (2) that women are properly represented at high-level climate change talks and decision-making bodies by requiring at least 40% female representation; and (3) that data collection and analysis reflect the gender specific issues in dealing with climate change.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for his work on this. there are two failures. you mentioned one of them, mr gerbrandy – the market failure – but there has also been a communications failure. despite all the big words and heavy debates in this house, none of the citizenship in general hears or understands what we are talking about: so we have failed. i am glad the commissioner is nodding in agreement. on the failure of the markets, it is acknowledged in the debate about the common agriculture policy that there is no reward for public goods in terms of the price we pay for food, but we have not found the formula for correcting the market, and we need to do that. commissioner, could i suggest that there may be a possibility – which has not been thought through in the proposals on greening the cap – for us to develop a market in green entitlements, and that, for example in ecological focus areas, it may be possible to establish some sort of marketplace as a first step towards a price for public goods. you are aware, however, in relation to the bogs in ireland and that particular problem, how extremely difficult it is when citizens are asked to change their behaviour for the good of the environment. so we have a long way to go to implement all these recommendations.
mr president, i think one of the most important points in this debate is the conflict between our long-term objectives and the short-term concerns of citizens. when we talk about sustainable production and consumption, there is not enough emphasis on what we mean by ‘sustainable’. if you listen to the debate on jobs and growth, which is so important to so many who are unemployed, the question of sustainability is not part of that discussion. we need to convince people that the words we say here will actually be reflected in an increase in jobs if we adopt the sustainability model and the resource-efficiency agenda which has already been discussed. lastly, i would make the point that, while it is absolutely vital to implement existing legislation, we also need to review it. there is a proposal in the cap reform to extend cross-compliance to include water framework and pesticides legislation, which will be a very big burden on agriculture in terms of bureaucracy, but it is something we need to discuss in the reform proposals.
in writing. − in particular i would like to support the passages in this report regarding the youth guarantee scheme and the call for member states to incorporate such schemes into their own employment and educational strategies. this scheme is particularly welcome in the context of our current economic challenges, and represents a novel way to tackle youth unemployment. i fully support this initiative and will be working towards its adoption at national level.
in writing. − i welcome the progress that has been made in burma over the past year, most notably the release of aung san suu kyi and the free elections that took place on 1 april. aung san suu kyi was bestowed with the freedom of dublin city in 2000 by my colleague the then lord mayor, cllr mary freehill, and as lord mayor myself in july 2009 i opened a book of solidarity to protest against her detention under house arrest. i hope that she will soon be able to visit dublin to sign the ‘book of freemen’ in person. the burmese authorities should release all remaining political prisoners without delay or conditions, allow free access by international human rights bodies to burma, and amend the 2008 burmese constitution so as to remove the military’s role in civilian politics in the run-up to the 2015 elections. the eu is correct to suspend for one year its restrictive measures currently in place against burma. this one-year suspension will enable the eu to continue to exert pressure on the burmese authorities to ensure that the reform process is sustainable and irreversible.
in writing. − the eu biodiversity strategy 2020 proposes measures to secure nature and ecosystems for future generations; i support these goals. however, paragraphs were adopted in this report that attempt to prescribe agricultural policy before the review of the cap 2014-2020 has been adopted by parliament. i did not support these paragraphs and therefore abstained on the final vote.
a uachtaráin, ar lá mór na heorpa, tá áthas orm a bheith páirteach sa phróiseas seo agus molaim go háirithe angelika niebler as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sí. gan dabht ar bith tá toradh maith againn d’ár saoránaigh agus taispeánann sé fírinne an tseanfhocail: ní neart go cur le chéile. our esteemed president mr schulz spoke today about robert schuman and quoted him talking about the need for solidarity in deeds. well, here we have solidarity in deeds that have been official for our citizens. like others, i too received a text from my mobile operator when i landed in brussels, telling me to enjoy roaming. for better value roaming, i was getting voice calls at 42 cents a minute to make, 13 cents a minute to receive, text messages 13 cents a minute to send and various prices for internet and data roaming. i will enjoy roaming far better (because i will be getting better value as a result of the european union) from 1 july: the 42 cents will become 29 cents, down to 24 cents, to 19 cents in 2014. the 13 cents for calls received will go down to 8 cents in july, then to 7 cents in 2014 and 5 cents subsequently. an sms will cost 9 cents, 8 cents and 6 cents, and data roaming will go from 70 cents to 35 cents and down to 20 cents. so there will certainly be better value there for consumers. in addition, particularly for those who travel abroad regularly, the local break-out will be of great benefit. especially if we can help create competition in the market by allowing mobile operators without their own network to use the network of other operators, that should help to make these not just maximum and minimum prices but price caps, where the real price will be far lower than this.
madam president, the deal struck to impose stricter price caps and roaming costs for calls, texts and mobile internet access represents welcome progress for european consumers but abolition is the way forward. roaming costs for mobile phone services have no place in the internal market and i remain committed to work towards their abolition. the eu is forced to impose cheaper prices for roaming services as companies keep pricing their services near the level of mandatory price ceilings. this demonstrates that competition is not working; roaming no longer makes any economic sense and consumers are paying up to four times the wholesale market prices charged by mobile operators to other mobile operators. we need to make the single market work so that our citizens and businesses can have more opportunities to recover and prosper in europe.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, rapporteur, the revolutions in north africa and the middle east are historic: they have given tens of millions of people right across the world the hope and confidence that they can shape history and that they can overthrow even the most brutal dictatorships. but the history of revolution has, of course, more than one chapter, and the first chapter still has to be closed in many countries of the region such as bahrain and syria, while in egypt and tunisia the revolution faces new challenges. the new political leaders continue to ignore the interests of the majority of people in those countries, as the recent wave of repression against protestors demonstrates, vindicating the statement by irish revolutionary henry joy mccracken in the 18th century, that the rich always betray the poor. the eu and its member states failed the people in north africa and the middle east through their political support and their economic ties with these brutal dictatorships. they will fail them again if they push ahead with the free trade agenda and the establishment of true market economies. the ngo war on want has explained that the creation of an eu-mediterranean free trade area would cause the near collapse of manufacturing sectors in egypt, morocco, algeria and tunisia and a massive contraction in syria, jordan and lebanon. whether economic development and trade will deliver for, or will fail, the millions of people who overthrew the tyrants will depend on the nature of the economic and trading system. there needs to be an end to gambling and speculation on food prices, maximum prices on food and other basic goods, and guarantees of a decent return for farmers, in order to guarantee food sovereignty and food security for the countries of the southern mediterranean. the debts inherited from the dictatorships are odious: they should all be cancelled immediately to give a breathing space so that economies can develop. in addition, the natural resources and major sources of economic wealth in these countries should be taken out of the hands of the multinational corporations and the rich, and taken into democratic public ownership for use as resources to invest in the economy, health care and education, in order to create a society worthy of the heroism shown by those who participated in the revolutions.
mr president, i would like to thank mr rinaldi for this report. with many dictators deposed, we have a unique opportunity in the eu to engage with north africa and the middle east and to help create a true social market economy in this region. on this, schuman day, may i remind the house of the origins of the social market economy. i believe it is time that we followed on from that christian democratic tradition and put ‘social’ back in the social market economy. we do not need to replace some dictators with others, whether they are capitalists or socialists or oligarchs controlling the markets and controlling the lives of people. what we need is a social market where people not only have rights and social justice but where they have responsibility and a sense of enterprise. if you want social justice and the wealth that is needed to create the public services we want in these new countries that are looking for good governance, then you have to encourage the enterprising spirit to create that wealth – and i do want that social justice. i have looked at the failed system behind the berlin wall. the berlin wall days are gone! we are not going back to that system of protectionism where bully politicians control the lives of people. let us look at who some of those dictators were and who they were associated with in their international, political arrangement. i believe that with every right goes a responsibility; a responsibility for each other. people get up in this house and they preach about rights, constantly misleading people that somebody else can provide those rights or that somehow, by some magic formula, we in this house can – with our clay feet – legislate rights for people; but the responsibilities that go with them are not there. we have to insist not only on good governance in the middle east and northern africa, but in this part of the world as well, where social market economy means that there is a true social market – not manipulated, not dictated, not politically controlled – and where social justice is at its centre and where people who, by the sweat of their brow, create wealth, are encouraged to be able to use that wealth for the good of the community.
mr president, since the brutal massacre of oil workers and their supporters in zhanaozen, kazakhstan, in december last year the human rights situation has worsened even further. brutal repression and intimidation are being used against anybody who speaks out against the farcical show-trials of the 37 people supposedly responsible for the tragic events in zhanaozen, and indeed anybody who speaks out against the authoritarian nazarbayev regime. on the morning of 28 april 2012, activists larisa boyar, baxatjan toregozhina and kanat ibragimov were arrested before participating in a protest, and were jailed for 15 days. on the night of 19 april, the freelance journalist lukpan akhmedyaroy was brutally attacked by five people and stabbed eight times. despite this ferocious oppression, the genie seems to be out of the bottle in kazakhstan, and the opposition and discontent of the working class cannot be silenced. this is seen in the victorious strike of thousands of workers in the copper-mining company in zhezkazgan. this important victory shows the potential power of the working class. i support the struggle of the workers there to ensure that concessions are granted.
mr president, in little over two weeks the irish people will go to the polls to vote on the fiscal stability treaty. this is something that all euro area countries and eight others outside the euro area are doing without a referendum. the treaty makes sense, and i hope that the irish people will take the opportunity to impose what we call in irish ‘smacht’ – discipline – on politicians and political parties, so that they will never again be able to buy elections, or draw down huge debts which future generations are lumbered with repaying. other countries outside the european union such as canada are doing something similar. also on this schuman day – since schuman spoke about solidarity in deeds – i would also hope that we could add an appendix to the fiscal treaty by engaging in some form of stimulus. i would ask the bigger countries in particular to help do that by helping us to achieve growth and jobs, as well as a treaty that would benefit everybody in europe, and in the euro area in particular.
mr president, the forthcoming uefa euro 2012 championship in poland and ukraine will provide an opportunity to celebrate football across europe, and i speak as a proud irishwoman whose national team has qualified for this event. unfortunately, however, there will be a darker side, as there is evidence to suggest that such events can lead to an increase in prostitution and trafficking in women for sexual exploitation. prostitution is something of a grey area in both poland and ukraine, being neither fully legal nor illegal. with just weeks to go until the championship, i am calling on the commission to work with uefa to initiate a europe-wide campaign, during the championship, which would, first and foremost, educate the population at large about the problem of forced prostitution and human trafficking; secondly, seek to curb demand by raising awareness among potential clients; and also provide information and assistance to those at risk of being trafficked into prostitution during this time. prostitution is not a lifestyle choice. it is time to debunk the idea of the happy hooker. indeed, women who are involved in prostitution will testify that they have had very few choices in life.
mr president, in the process of switching over from analogue to digital tv transmission in ireland, a number of isolated regions in rural cork, kerry, tipperary, waterford and limerick will be blacked out by the so-called free digital television service saorview, according to current coverage planning. these coverage gaps punish rural and isolated areas and compound their disadvantaged situation. almost 100 000 people will need to pay up to eur 200 in special satellite equipment that can cost a further eur 400 to be installed – according to some quotes. i believe this raises questions in terms of compliance with eu law, and i will question the commission in that regard. the provision of tv reception is a service of general interest subject to universal provision obligations regardless of location. all irish families should be covered. rural ireland must not have its back broken by extortionate rates for a service previously enjoyed for free.
mr president, i would agree with most of the points made by the rapporteur, and i compliment him on his initiative. regional airports certainly have a key part to play in the overall transport network, and i would agree with him that this should be included in the ten-t network. we also need to look at the points regarding the one-bag rule, which is obviously detrimental especially, as he said, to small airports. at the heels of the hunt, however, it is important that regional airports are economically viable. we also have to look at the situation of regional airports which were established prior to major waterways being built, or to the advent of high-speed rail, making some of them now uneconomic and possibly unnecessary. it is very important that we take an overall view so as to keep the ones that are necessary, to build them up and help them in every way. but if some have become unnecessary then there is no point in pouring good money after bad simply to keep them ticking over.
mr president, the four regional airports in my constituency – waterford, shannon, cork and kerry airports – would, i believe, benefit from many of the ideas contained in this report. i congratulate the author and i particularly welcome the proposals in relation to the ‘one-bag’ rule, as cited by my colleague, sean kelly, mep. this rule benefits the airlines. however, the benefit is to the detriment of the airport itself as many regional airports depend on retail and food sales to survive. the business model is threatened when passengers are limited to one bag as it prevents them from making purchases at the airport. the spanish ban on this ‘one-bag’ rule should be adopted across the 27 member states. i would also like to take this opportunity to highlight today’s decision by the irish government to split shannon airport from the daa. i hope the future plans for this airport will focus on the airport’s potential to attract investment and to create long-term jobs in the mid-west region. it is very much needed.
in writing. − i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs, who worked so diligently in order to reach this satisfactory agreement. i voted in favour of this report and i welcome the adoption of this report by a huge 559 votes in favour. the purpose of this resolution is to implement the recommendations of the dispute settlement body of the world trade organization agreed by the eu and china on 19 january 2012. on 18 august 2011 the eu notified the dsb that it intends to implement the recommendations and rulings of the dsb in this dispute in a manner that respects its wto obligations. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the wording of article 9(5) of the basic anti-dumping regulation and introduce the wording of the wto anti dumping agreement. on 19 january 2012 the european union and china agreed that the reasonable period of time for implementing the dsb recommendations and rulings would be 14 months and two weeks from the date the dsb adopted the reports and this period will expire on 12 october 2012.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the bradbourn report on regional airports. the report underlines the importance of regional airports to business, tourism and economic development. i fully support paragraph 1 of the report, which stresses that existing public service obligations should be maintained into the future.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim mile failta roimh an obair ata deants ag an tuasal bradbourn insan turaisic seo. ta seo fior-thabhachtach go mbeadh strateis againn le haghaidh todchai na haerfortanna reigiunach.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of parliament’s budget for the financial year 2010. i supported amendments in favour of greater budget transparency and for the opportunity to make further savings by designating a single seat for parliament.
in writing. − our rapporteur recommended postponing the granting of discharge to the european food safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2010 because of ‘conflicts of interest’ issues. i do not think that such matters, especially those that are current, should be addressed in a report addressing discharge for 2010. for these reasons i do not believe that there are sufficient grounds for this postponement and therefore, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the agency.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on fraud in the eu. we need more rigorous fiscal policy in order to reduce the size of the eu’s shadow economy, which is currently estimated as one fifth of gdp. europe must step up its efforts to provide transparency on public finances in order to combat fraud and corruption, thereby safeguarding public finances. member states must lower their thresholds for compulsory non-cash payments. documented electronic transactions make it harder to commit fraud. we need full implementation of the irregularities management system (ims) by member states to improve their compliance and speed in reporting irregularities. we must apply newly developed techniques to measure corruption and fraud in order to provide an accurate assessment of the extent of the misuse of eu funds and embezzlement of eu revenues. we must have proper collection of vat and excise duties. improved collection systems need to be of upmost priority for member states, as fraud affects both the eu’s and member states’ budgets. in this regard i welcome the setting up of the ep’s special committee to deal with organised crime, corruption and money laundering within the eu.
in writing. − i very much welcome the adoption of this report which, for the first time, will cap the amount consumers are charged for using mobile internet while roaming within the eu.
in writing. − i supported this report. this report represents a compromise and the best available deal for ireland and the eu under difficult circumstances. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mairead mcguinness who acted as shadow rapporteur for the epp group. i am concerned that, under the current text, chemicals whose use is allowed for specific uses in the eu cannot be exported for the same verified uses in third countries. this is something that i feel needs to be resolved during the second reading. we need to ensure that we strike the right balance between environmental/health aspects on the one hand and trade/competitiveness aspects on the other.
in writing. − to achieve and make possible a first reading agreement on this recast proposal the rapporteur made substantive concessions by agreeing to this compromise text, which is a major departure from his original text. this was the best and only agreement possible and with that in mind i vote in favour to secure the first reading agreement.
in writing. − i supported the oral amendment that called for a delay in today’s vote, to allow members time to scrutinise and debate the issue. the oral amendment was not approved. the failure to debate this motion for a resolution, to debate the matter of the patenting of essential biological processes and also these aspects of european patent law more broadly, meant that i was unable to support the text. i therefore abstained on the final vote of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − this is a very important issue affecting many of europe’s seafarers, and i am glad the matter is being raised again by parliament so that we push forward with more effective solutions for this issue.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on maritime piracy which requires a coordinated response. the fight against piracy will not be won solely by military means but through promotion of peace, development and state-building. i welcome the decision to extend the eu’s counter-piracy operation for two years to protect vessels of the world food programme. i welcome the commitment of an additional eur 175 million through the european development fund (edf) to provide lasting solutions to the root causes of piracy, namely poverty and state failure, and to support development projects for sustainable economic growth. we must liberate those currently being held hostage by pirates and secure the release of the seven hijacked vessels. we need enhanced coordination between the eu and other international actors to achieve a comprehensive approach to fight piracy. we need more effective measures to punish those suspected of acts of piracy. eu member states need to put into national law all the provisions laid down by the un convention on the law of the sea and the un convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of maritime navigations. member states need to investigate and confiscate money which is paid as ransom to pirates, in order to identify and dismantle organised crime networks.
mr president, i too am a member of the ep delegation for relations with canada. i find the experience rewarding, and i find the canadians upfront and honourable. for that reason it is a pity that we have this logjam, which we must work our way through. for that reason, i would be loath to use what i would regard as the ‘nuclear option’ of withdrawing visa-free travel for canadians at this point in time. that is something we should hold as a bargaining tool. i think that, with our shared history and culture, we should be able to get through this difficulty and come to an understanding so all 27 member states would have the same rights with regard to travel to canada. also, i think that the trade agreement is of paramount importance and, particularly at a time of recession, we do need to work at ensuring that we have every opportunity to grow our economy. certainly, having a country like canada in a position to have a free trade agreement with us offers huge opportunities for us. so i think the message here is that we should negotiate and come to an agreement with people who share a history, a culture and democratic principles with us.
mr president, the fiscal stability treaty will be put to the vote in ireland in a referendum on 31 may, but i want to take this opportunity to denounce the undemocratic nature of the debate. there is a severe distortion of the democratic process following the mckenna judgment, which stipulates that the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides of any referendum campaign must be given equal weight in terms of air time during the campaign. this creates a perverse incentive for all sorts of shady interests to campaign against any referendum, often on spurious grounds. added to this is the absurdly undemocratic nature of allowing vested interests with no democratic mandate – such as declan ganley, a failed european parliament candidate in 2009 – a disproportionate platform on the national airwaves. tonight mr ganley will be given a similar platform, along with the deputy prime minister, an tánaiste eamon gilmore, on the popular current affairs programme, ‘the frontline’. mr ganley, alongside the russian economist constantin gurdgiev, has set up an asset management company in switzerland called st columbanus ag. this company would clearly stand to benefit from any financial instability in ireland caused by a ‘no’ vote. as it states on its own website: ‘the firm provides a safe haven for assets in the midst of the continuing global financial crisis, a service that appears increasingly important in the current european context of fragile peripheral economies, and an unstable eurozone banking sector’. i think giving this platform to mr ganley is totally undemocratic, particularly when you consider that 11 of the 12 irish meps who are in favour of the referendum are virtually ignored.
a uachtaráin, tá sé feiliúnach go bhfuilimid ag plé na ceiste seo ar maidin, mar is iad na smes (fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide) an grúpa is tábhachtaí chun jabanna a chruthú san eoraip agus éalú as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta. i am pleased that we are having a discussion on, first of all, the definition of smes, because mr schwab’s definition that takes in most of the companies in europe is not really a definition at all. in particular i agree with vicky ford that we should be concentrating particularly on smaller smes and micro-businesses and establishing set rules for those which are different to the others, in particular in relation to bureaucracy, red tape and compliance. these are not only important economically; they are also important socially and culturally because they are usually found in the centre of towns. if they die, the town dies with them. so it is important that we give them access to funding and reduce red tape.
i scríbhinn. – tá an chosúlacht ar an scéal go mbíonn ceist na bhfiontar beag agus meánmhéide (fbm), an ról lárnach atá acu i ngeilleagar an ae agus na deacrachtaí atá acu maidir le maoiniú a fháil, á plé ag gach dara suí iomlánach. is minic drochthionchar an ró-mhaorlathais ar fbmanna luaite againn. ina ainneoin sin, is beag athrú atá ag teacht ar an scéal agus is beag tionchar atá ag croídhícheall na parlaiminte seo ar dheacrachtaí laethúla fbmanna. in éirinn, is ionann an caillteanas post san earnáil fbm le blianta beaga anuas agus 15% den lucht saothair iomlán. is mar a chéile atá an scéal ar fud an ae. fearaim fáilte roimh an gclár um iomaíochas fiontar agus fbmanna atá le cur i bhfeidhm ó 2014 go 2020 agus a mbeidh buiséad de eur 2.5 billiún aige. dóibh siúd atá ag rith fiontair faoi láthair, áfach, is fada uathu an bhliain 2014. iarraim ar an gcoimisiún eolas a thabhairt maidir leis na bearta atá le glacadh láithreach aige, i gcomhar leis na ballstáit, chun cabhrú leis na fbmanna sa ghearrthéarma. ní mór dul i ngleic gan mhoill leis na bacainní ar mhaoiniú, leis an ró-mhaorlathas agus leis an riarachán iomarcach.
in writing. – eu structural funds must show greater awareness of the needs of smes so that more smes are able to draw down eu funding. smes do not have the same capacity or resources as larger firms to prepare detailed applications. we need less red tape. the economic crisis has hit the sme sector more than the larger enterprise sector – twice the number of jobs have been lost in the smes sector than in the larger enterprise sector. smes have proven their job potential in the past – 85% of all new jobs created in the eu between 2002-10 were in smes – and can do so again. over the past couple of years the eib has provided loans of eur 250 million to irish banks for onward lending to smes. it is not clear how much of this has actually reached smes. the commitments under the proposed competitiveness and sme programme (cosme) to better monitor eu lending to smes must therefore be fleshed out and strengthened.
a uachtaráin, is truamhéalach an scéal é scéal yulia tymoshenko agus is ceart go bhfuilimid á phlé anseo ar maidin. tá súil agam go mbeidh dea-thoradh ar ár ndíospóireachtaí. i had the pleasure of listening to mrs tymoshenko in bonn a little over a year ago at an epp meeting, and she was a very impressive lady and had lots of plans to democratise and improve her country’s situation. that she is now languishing in prison is something which is not acceptable, and while she may have issues to address, they should be done so in accordance with the normal judicial norms and that is what we should work towards. it is not acceptable that she is being treated as she is as of now. as regards a boycott of the championships, i do not like mixing sport and politics, and while we may discuss it, i would hope that it will not come to that. it should be an option of last resort but, hopefully, our discussions might lead to some resolution prior to that.
mr president, i welcome this report. i think it is a good start, but we need to go an awful lot further. we need a strategy to protect the rights of vulnerable customers. online shopping is a very welcome development indeed, but the internet is also fraught with dangers. consumers are bombarded with attractive but bogus offers from companies. they look attractive on the surface but, once these fraudulent companies get your credit card details, you are wide open to fraud and exploitation. i think we need to look very closely in relation to how we protect our vulnerable consumers, because this report is good, it is good start, but we have a long way to go. again, congratulations to the rapporteur.
mr president, i am also speaking on behalf of my epp colleague, mairead mcguinness. both of us would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadows on a very good own-initiative report, which is concise, succinct and, importantly, sticks to the point. i especially welcome paragraph 11 which calls on the turkish government to investigate the phenomenon of honour suicides. while i welcome the fact that honour killings are now classified as aggravated circumstances – murder, in other words – i am concerned that honour killings have been replaced by honour suicides. i welcome that paragraph 11, for example, calls for further research on this. we need to follow it up vigorously. i voted against paragraph 41. i am not against paternity leave but, as far as i am concerned, not all eu countries have paternity leave. therefore we are not in a position to insist that it happens in turkey. last, but by no means least, i voted against paragraph 45. again, i am not against maternity leave and i have actively supported the estrela report. however, i believe that the committee on women’s rights and gender equality is not in a position to dictate to turkey on this matter.
i scríbhinn. − de réir suirbhé eurobarometer a rinneadh le déanaí, níl ach leath na dtomhaltóirí sásta leis an eolas a chuirtear ar fáil dóibh. tá deacrachtaí ag grúpaí leochaileacha, go háirithe, na roghanna atá ar fáil dóibh agus na cearta atá acu a thuiscint. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le tomhaltóirí leochaileacha ar daoine scothaosta iad, go háirithe ó thaobh seirbhísí digiteacha de. toisc go bhfuil breis agus breis eolais á chur ar líne, níl teacht ar eolas ag tomhaltóirí scothaosta agus bíonn sé níos deacra anois orthu rochtain a fháil ar acmhainní maidir lena gcearta a chur i bhfeidhm. bíonn tomhaltóirí nach bhfuil rochtain ar an idirlíon acu, ar chúis amháin nó ar chúis eile, thíos leis toisc nach mbíonn siad in ann leas a bhaint as seirbhísí tráchtála ar líne nó eolas a fháil maidir lena gcearta. mar sin, bíonn cuid shuntasach den mhargadh inmheánach dúnta dóibh, íocann siad níos mó ar tháirgí agus bíonn orthu brath go mór ar dhaoine eile. ní foláir eolas maidir le cearta tomhaltóirí a chur ar fáil, ní hamháin trí bhealaí oifigiúla, ach freisin trí chumainn tomhaltóirí agus oifigí réigiúnacha atá níos feiceálaí agus níos éasca do thomhaltóirí a bhfuil fadhbanna soghluaisteachta acu nó nach bhfuil teacht acu ar an idirlíon.
in writing. − we need to do more to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. we need a broad and coherent legislative strategy to tackle vulnerability, taking into account the complexity of such situations. vulnerable consumers must have effective access to alternative dispute resolution, either free of charge or at the lowest possible cost. the eu, member states and businesses need to take the appropriate measures to ensure that consumers have access to understandable and comparable information about fees and means of redress, and can easily switch providers, especially in the telecommunication and energy sectors. we need to have better information and access to claim procedures regarding, inter alia, passengers’ rights and transparency of fares. eu passengers’ rights legislation must take into account the situation of vulnerable consumers. we need to conduct a detailed analysis of the impact of misleading and aggressive advertising on vulnerable consumers, especially children and adolescents. there must be stricter advertising standards for sophisticated financial products aimed at retail investors who may not have a good understanding of the risks and losses that an investor may incur. we need enhanced consumer awareness regarding product safety, especially for vulnerable consumer groups like pregnant women and children.
in writing. − i voted for the internal market scoreboard because the eu and member states must take action to eliminate obstacles to a properly functioning single market and bring citizens’ and businesses’ concerns to the fore. we need to report on the main international market obstacles to citizens and consumers with a disability and arrange for special efforts to be made to remove them. we need to strengthen the points of single contact and provide citizens with clear and practical information to ensure they take advantage of synergies in information at european level, such as ‘your europe advice’. we must promote the your europe portal in national administrations and develop cooperation between your europe and websites of national administrations. we need more resources dedicated to solvit to deal with social security cases. member states need to provide correlation tables outlining how internal market directives are applied in national regulations. greater account needs to be taken of the petitions process in order to improve eu legislation and bring it closer to the citizens. we need better and timelier transposition of existing and new legislation, in completing the internal market, which will be an effective way of fighting the current economic crisis.
in writing. − in relation to the free votes on paragraphs 45, 49 and 52, i consider these to be matters of subsidiarity.
in writing. − i supported this report because i agree with the rapporteur’s logic that a ‘one-stop shop’ to deal with all the practical aspects of a given european citizens’ initiative (eci) is the most appropriate way to ensure that this mechanism enhances european democracy. ensuring full and timely involvement of meps is a positive step towards making ecis a success, as we represent our citizens on a daily basis and are in tune with their needs and suggestions. i support the idea that the relevant european parliament committee would organise a public hearing in parliament, in conjunction with the european commission and other stakeholders, where suitable. i particularly welcome the proposal for an enhanced role for meps on the european parliament’s petitions committee, which would allow them to be involved with the appropriate lead committee in organising the hearing for a given eci.
mr president, listening to the speeches here it seems clear that the significance of what has happened across europe in the past weeks has been lost on the leaders of the eu; that they are attempting to say that this is some sort of appeal by people to add a sprinkling of growth rhetoric to the reality of policies of austerity, when in reality what has happened across europe is a rejection of your failed austerity policies, your policies that have created mass unemployment, that have returned economies across europe to recession, and a demand for a fundamental change of policy. growth will not be achieved simply by stamping the word onto an austerity treaty, because austerity kills growth. the eur 166 billion worth of extra cuts and taxes demanded by the austerity treaty will undermine any basis for sustainable economic recovery. people in ireland on 31 may will have an opportunity to join with millions of others across europe in saying ‘no’ to austerity and saying ‘no’ to the austerity treaty. if we vote ‘no’, will the commission accept the verdict of the irish people, accept that austerity has once again been rejected, and throw that policy and this treaty in the dustbin where it belongs?
blue-card question. – thank you, ms berès, for taking the question. would you agree that for countries like my own, where we are showing responsibility, there should be solidarity by way of stimulus, but that in order to require solidarity those who are showing solidarity are entitled to expect responsibility?
mr president, fiscal discipline and growth-enhancing measures are two sides of the same coin. the quicker we stabilise the eurozone, the quicker we can build economic recovery within the eurozone and in my own country. this is the question facing us by way of referendum on thursday week. (microphone cut off for an instant) …in the eurozone which will lead to a better economic climate conducive to investment. eu leaders will meet tomorrow to map out incentives and initiatives to pave the way for future growth. this is a welcome and positive development. central to any stimulus package must be increased funding for the european investment bank, a large percentage of which should be ring-fenced to the job creators, that is the smes. finally – and i regret that mr farage is not in the house – i notice an acrid contribution to the referendum debate in ireland. while he has recommended a ‘no’ vote, his contribution is in fact a boost to the ‘yes’ campaign. i do not say that in any cynical fashion. irish citizens will never take our lead from mr farage or indeed from the uk independence party. vótáil ‘tá’ sa reifreann ar an déardaoin seo chugainn.
mr president, it is heartening to witness such a dramatic change in discourse in this house, not only by those who come here but by those beyond it. a different tone was struck this week at the g8 summit and at the recent g8 meeting and i hope the same will be the case at the next european council summit. commissioner rehn, you will never be short of allies in this house in relation to working toward investment, growth and a stimulus for job creation, and we have given you proof of this on many occasions. but when the commission comes in with initiatives, what it delivers best are overstatements. the previous assistance package to greece was described as a marshall plan and today you also described the next multiannual financial framework as a marshall plan. i believe in the need for a plan, and i do not blame you for your inability to deliver on one, but we are far from achieving one. what you can do is rethink what structural reform would mean if you were to take account of the true causes of sovereign debt in light of the huge crisis we experienced in 2008 and the economic policy thinking that led to it.
madam president, year after year we stand here and make statements in condemnation of homophobic acts by individuals and state authorities. we have even had to look into worrying developments in eu member states and in the neighbouring countries of the eu. recently, in a video promoted by the european parliament’s lgbt group, i was proud to share the airwaves with commissioner reding and colleagues from this house, and even the president of the eu council. we promised our assistants that we were working to make things better for them. as the council representative rightly pointed out, discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation does not only happen in the workplace – where such behaviour is outlawed by eu legislation – but the proposed directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation remains blocked at council level. i am not persuaded by the arguments of those claiming these are issues where the principle of subsidiarity applies. surely the problems surrounding the mutual recognition of civil status between member states demonstrate the need to strengthen our legislation.
mr president, first of all i want to commend the rapporteur, she has done an excellent job. the report is very timely given the economic crisis in which we find ourselves. first of all we have to welcome the fact that china has lifted many of the barriers to trade and is more open to dialogue with the western world. however, as the rapporteur said, there are definite problems. first of all, there is the huge imbalance between the manner in which the eu treats chinese companies investing in europe and the manner in which china treats eu companies investing in china. not only is the situation bad, it is actually getting worse: 43% of the eu companies in europe confirm that there is anti-eu discrimination; that should be set against a figure of 33% in 2010. the problem areas have been outlined: first of all public procurement. secondly, eu investors are debarred, for example, from owning their own company. you must hand over at least half the ownership of your company if you establish in china. thirdly, china accounts for 97% of the world production in commodities, and we know the problem in relation to rare earth exports. the wto settlement body, for example, ruled against the chinese practice in july 2011. the sheer size, power and potential of china are absolutely phenomenal. mr sturdy put it very bluntly. he said we must focus on the positives. i have heard a lot of tough talk here. let us be honest about it. we are not in a position to talk tough. we cannot bully the chinese. at the end of the day, the name of the game has to be putting the hand out, freedom and rapprochement.
mr president, i was very taken with the balanced nature of commissioner de gucht’s contribution. i realise that much progress has been made in colombia and i think that we need to encourage and reward the effort which has been made. last year i arranged for the international trade union body to come and address the committee on development in relation to their concerns about the murder of trade unionists and i spoke to a woman from colombia, a young woman whose father had been murdered simply for trying to organise labour so that they would get a decent income. none of us could object to that and none of us could stand over that. i promised her i would raise this issue; i did raise this issue and we did pursue this issue. it had some effect because the attorney-general and some of the ministers from colombia came here and tried to make their case. but i would like the commissioner to take this up directly with the international trade union congress, to try to persuade them that there is sufficient cover in this for them to buy into it, because the human rights situation is such that a lot of members in this house who would like to see the agreement signed, still have concerns; we want to see momentum, and protection for people who have the right to organise. so i want to see the situation in colombia advanced; i want to see a reward for the efforts made; but i also want to see protection for people who are going about their lawful business in organising labour.
mr president, it is said that there are two certainties in life: death and taxes. while death comes to all mortals, it seems that tax is evaded by some – especially financial institutions – while political leaders cannot agree how to tax them. there is an element here of nero fiddling while rome burns. the financial institutions are gaining, while politicians dither. the key element for the european union is to bring pressure on the g20 to introduce this tax on a global scale, so that no country will gain at the expense of another. failing that, the only other option is to introduce the tax on a europe-wide 27-state basis. we should look at that as a pilot project, maybe for two or three years, to see if the forecasts of flight of finance and transaction relocation really transpire. i have my doubts, because of the small amounts involved – 0.1% or 0.01%.
mr president, i want to support the comments of our rapporteur and thank him for them. i rise as the chair of the committee of inquiry into equitable life so i have some experience of the limitations of that committee. having said that, we did achieve results and i think it is important to understand that the reason for that inquiry was that over a million citizens lobbied us to carry out our work, which we did. i would also ask that the parliament look at follow-up to committees of inquiry. we still have not got the full outcome of the work we did on equitable life, and i would like the uk authorities to clarify whether all citizens affected will be paid and when they will be paid. i think we should, in this report, look not just at our procedures, which are important and where i support change, but also at the follow-up to the work of the various committees of inquiry, because citizens will judge us not on the report but on the action.
a uachtaráin, is maith an rud é gur phléamar an cheist seo ar maidin: córas comónta cánach, nó an ftt mar a thugtar air, agus gur vótálamar air inniu. glacadh leis le móramh mór: 187 ina fhabhar, 152 ina choinne agus 46 ag staonadh. bhí mise i measc na ndaoine a staon, mé féin agus mo chomhghleacaithe ó fhine gael. staonamar ní hamháin toisc go rabhamar ina choinne mar phrionsabal – táimid ina fhabhar mar phrionsabal – ach níl na coinníollacha ann anois chun é a thabhairt isteach. go háirithe dá dtabharfaí isteach é taobh istigh de limistéar an euro, gan é a bheith taobh amuigh den limistéar sin, d’fhéadfadh sé damáiste mór agus daor a dhéanamh agus ní bheimis ag tabhairt cothrom na féinne dúinn féin, go háirithe ós rud é go bhfuil cúlú eacnamaíoch uafásach ann faoi láthair. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir é a thabhairt isteach ar leibhéal domhanda an g20 agus, dá ndéanfaí é sin, bheadh gach duine sásta.
mr president, i welcome this report. i voted for it and i commend the rapporteur. it focuses on the glaring trade imbalances and the need to update the 1985 agreement. however, if we do get binding rules under a new agreement, and a level playing field, the potential for eu exports to china is absolutely huge. a number of weeks ago, the chinese vice-president spent three days in ireland. he was extremely interested in our farming methodology. a week later the irish prime minister, enda kenny, visited china. what is obvious is that there is a huge potential food export market for eu farmers under the new common agricultural policy: a population in china of 1.3 billion people and growing. the chinese are extremely health-conscious and, with top-quality, clean food, the possibilities for eu farming and agriculture are endless.
a uachtaráin, tá dul chun cinn iontach déanta ag an tsín maidir le cúrsaí eacnamaíochta ach go háirithe le blianta beaga anuas. tá moladh mór ag dul leo as ucht é sin a dhéanamh. ach, é sin ráite, tá fadhbanna againn leis an tsín chomh maith, go háirithe fadhbanna a bhaineann le comhalartacht agus tá sé tábhachtach é sin a bhunú chomh luath agus is féidir. tá bacanna ann le trádáil, agus caithfear iad sin a plé agus a cheartú chomh maith. agus tá fadhbanna eile ann chomh maith, go háirithe iadsan a bhaineann le mianraí ganna. tá ceannas ag muintir na síne ar 97 % de mhianraí ganna an domhain. tá a hairgeadra measta faoi bhun luacha agus tugann sé sin neamhchothromaíocht agus buntáiste mídhleathach dóibh i gcúrsaí trádála. caithfear na rudaí sin go léir a phlé leo. dá bhrí sin, tá géarghá le comhaontú nua faoi infheistíocht a bhunú leis an tsín, go háirithe ceann atá bunaithe ar chomhalartacht. sin an sprioc atá romhainn agus, má éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh, beidh linne agus beidh leosan.
in writing. − the financial sector was a major cause of the crisis and yet it has received more than eur 4 trillion in public support in recent years, in ireland and around europe. to ensure that the sector starts to make a fair contribution to public finances, we should now support a low-rate financial transaction tax. as you know, we will vote on the proposal today. in ireland, the financial sector provides thousands of good jobs and much-needed tax revenue. it is absolutely correct that we should work for a strong and sustainable irish financial sector. however, there is no independent evidence to back claims of possible negative effects of the proposed ftt in ireland. in fact, the commission claims it could save ireland more than eur 500 million by 2020. in response to the frequently cited concerns, please see that the new principles incorporated into the report mean the risk to activity based in ireland is very low, whether the uk takes part or not.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because i want to see a global ftt introduced. an ftt would help stabilise the financial sector, make it more focused on long-term financing of the real economy and ensure that it makes a fairer contribution to society. the february socialists & democrats group study estimated that an ftt could increase eu gdp by 0.25%. the fact that the proceeds could be used both to fund the eu budget, thereby reducing member states’ contributions – saving ireland eur 500 million in 2020 – and national budgets is very positive. the ftt should also be used to finance global goods, such as development and climate change. there are important issues for ireland that need to be addressed but i do think the european parliament does set out some good solutions in this regard, particularly on the issuance and ownership principles. these should now be examined in full by all sides. the question of whether any financial institution located outside an ‘ftt zone’ would be willing to pay the higher cost of evading rather than paying is an open one. i also welcome the proposal to have the commission report back on the impact of an ftt by 2016.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i gcoinne na tuarascála seo agus i gcoinne a bhfuil ann maidir le comhchóras cánachais a thabhairt isteach i gcás idirbheart airgeadais. cé go bhfuil buntáistí éigin i gceist le cáin ar idirbhearta airgeadais a thabhairt isteach don ae – mar shampla, an t-ioncam a ghinfí don aontas – ní córas gan locht é. d’fhéadfadh sé gurb iad custaiméirí na mbanc a bheadh ag íoc as agus go dtiocfadh méadú ar na costais a bheadh ar ghnáthchomhlachtaí nach bhfuil baint acu féin le seirbhísí airgeadais ach a bheadh ag baint úsáide as ionstraimí airgeadais. anuas air sin, dá dtabharfaí isteach cáin dá leithéid agus nach mbeadh feidhm aige maidir leis domhan uile – nó fiú maidir le ballstáit uile an ae27 – d’fhéadfadh sé go mbeadh tionchar aige sin ar earnáil na seirbhísí airgeadais, in éirinn go háirithe, agus go mbogfaí roinnt gníomhachtaí nó comhlachtaí thar lear mar thoradh air agus go mbeadh caillteanas suntasach post ann. go dtí go mbeidh plean ann do cháin uileghabhálach ar idirbhearta airgeadais, ar leibhéal eorpach nó domhanda, plean a chinnteodh nach ar chustaiméirí bainc phoiblí a bheadh an costas ag titim, d’fhéadfadh sé go gcuirfeadh cáin dá leithéid bacainn ar théarnamh geilleagrach an ae agus ualach breise ar mhuintir an aontais.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the financial transactions tax (ftt) for a number of reasons. first of all, the financial sector is largely exempted from taxation of its activities and transactions. this in itself is a problem and needs to be rectified – it is a sector like any other and should contribute its share of taxation. furthermore, the huge increase in financial transactions – many of them highly speculative and short-term in nature – clearly indicates that the trading does not serve the needs of the real economy and that its purpose is to generate massive profits for bondholders and investors. the imposition of an ftt should curb some of these high-frequency transactions, which often destabilise markets and have no productive outcomes whatsoever. unfortunately i missed some of the early votes on the report, but i intended to support amendments 15, 52d and 36. this proposal is not perfect, but the residence principle combined with the issuance principle will close many of the loopholes. however, we still need a watertight, harmonised approach to tax avoidance.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote of the legislative resolution. i have concerns about this proposal – in particular, if this were not to apply to all 27 member states, it would set ireland at a disadvantage – and the government of ireland, while sharing my concerns, is still trying to be constructive in addressing issues that have arisen.
in writing. − the fine gael delegation (jim higgins, sean kelly, mairead mcguinness and i) abstained on the final vote of the legislative resolution. we have concerns about this proposal, and the government of ireland is still trying to be constructive in addressing issues that have arisen. in particular, if this proposal were not to apply to all 27 member states, it would put ireland at a disadvantage. we will continue to monitor discussions as they progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the current rules relating to inquiry committees in the european parliament are not in line with best practice as followed in national parliaments throughout the eu. like the rapporteur, i believe that committees of inquiry must have the ability to summon all relevant witnesses in order to smoothly and efficiently examine alleged breaches of eu law. citizens expect the european parliament to be able to deal effectively with such matters. likewise, sanctions must be put in place for those who refuse to cooperate with such investigations. furthermore, these committees should have access to all relevant documents, from both eu and national bodies.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the council for the presentation made this afternoon. this is a very worrying situation. this is a country that has been devastated over a prolonged period of time by violence in one shape or another, and it was presumed that the secession of south sudan would at least produce some agreed route to peace and stability in that region. people are suffering, people are hungry, and people are displaced, despite the fact that this is a region with the potential for very profitable oil exports. it is very difficult to deal with the situation, but at the present time we have to try to contain it. we have to deal, in particular, with the humanitarian crisis there. i would ask us to ensure – especially in those refugee camps outside sudan where people are gathering – that there is sufficient support and supplies for those people, and that we do everything possible to provide for their security. events in the region of sudan and south sudan are an indication of the sort of thing that can happen when there is secession or when there is no stability. many of us here celebrate the arab spring, but in fact we are not sure what is going to follow it, and good governance simply has not been the tradition in many of the countries concerned. i think it is time that we worked with the african union, in terms of training and supplies and resources, to try to get them to build their capacity to make this region a stable region. the european union cannot do everything. the united nations cannot do everything. when these problems arise, they are very costly – costly not only in terms of lives, and in terms of disruption for people, including in regions like this where people perhaps depend on oil and exports, but also in terms of the humanitarian aid we are going to be required to supply. it is costly. why can the resources not be found early on to invest with the african union in trying to ensure that they are equipped to prevent this sort of situation, to develop good governance and to enable them to be the first port of call when such events do take place?
mr president, one of the most important things for europe in the future is to remain economically competitive. that will improve the quality of life for our citizens and make us more powerful and more influential on the world stage. as of now, we are too dependent on imports of resources and we need to look at what we have ourselves and develop it. firstly we should try to eliminate the huge amount of waste that takes place from households right across the spectrum. i think the conditions are there now to really work on this. i know that from my own country, coming through the primary school into the secondary school, they have things such as the green flag. students are coming through now who have an appreciation of the environment and climate change and are willing to play their part in recycling. i think now is the time to really home in on this and make ourselves more efficient in that regard. agriculture obviously is a huge area. particularly we need to develop a very strongly resourced cap to ensure that we have security of food supply and also that everything is done in as environmentally friendly a way as possible. energy, of course, is essential. while people will have reservations about certain types of energy, particularly coal because it is highly polluting, nevertheless we need to keep an open mind, particularly on shale gas, and also develop bio-energy – wave, wind and tidal, which all have potential that we can develop hugely. that brings me to the importance of research. horizon 2020 gives us the opportunity to do research into these areas and become world leaders in them, utilising the natural resources we have in that regard. finally, i just want to mention the blue economy. a few weeks ago we had a demonstration in brussels outlining the vast potential offered by the sea in creating all sorts of energy resources in terms already mentioned – wave, tidal and wind – but also in terms of foodstuffs and other areas as well.
mr president, thank you, and my thanks to the rapporteur also. mr gerbrandy, in the 1700s your report might perhaps have been summarised in four words as: ‘waste not, want not’. perhaps when we try to appeal to citizens, as the commissioner suggested, when we try to mobilise them, we need to use less words and make it a little bit friendlier for people. when one reads some of this report it would paralyse rather than mobilise but i accept your very good intentions. in particular, around the issues of dietary change and land use, i agree absolutely with paragraph 56 about reducing imported land use. to do that we need to produce more using less resources within the european union. i think paragraph 57 is very reasonable on improving consumer awareness, but i am afraid that paragraph 52 is less so. i think perhaps we would be better off using fewer words as they did in the 1700s and encouraging all of us – as our parents used to – to ‘waste not, want not’.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his attendance, and also my colleague pervenche berès for bringing this question forward. i believe that young people are suffering disproportionately from the crisis that is facing europe. youth unemployment has really dramatic effects. it reduces career opportunities and it reduces earning power but, most importantly, it excludes young people from playing their role in society, and it is soul-destroying. as a result of youth unemployment in ireland, which is at unprecedented levels, young talented people are leaving the country in droves, and they and their heartbroken families are aware of the reality that they are not taking a year out to travel, but are in fact emigrating to make new lives abroad. youth unemployment has serious economic consequences. it deprives society of the skills of young people who would, if they were able, put their talents and capabilities to good use. no society can be vibrant and dynamic, let alone competitive, if over 20% of its youth workforce is inactive. in march 2012, eurostat put the irish youth unemployment rate at over 30% – more than 73 000 people. ireland’s rate is the fifth highest in the eu. in december 2011, the european neets (not in education, employment or training) survey put the economic cost, in terms of lost earnings and social transfers, at 2.1% of ireland’s gdp. this was the highest figure for any eu member state. but youth unemployment also has dramatic social consequences and, as previous speakers have pointed out, we risk the possibility of having a ‘lost generation’ of people who are completely disengaged. commissioner, i want to ask particularly about the youth guarantee. i do not believe that the eur 4 million that has been set aside is sufficient, and i think we need to do more. i also want to question you about more flexibility in the structural funds, particularly in relation to financing, and finally to ask you, commissioner, whether, on your study visits to the eight countries concerned, you have seen effective use of european social fund (esf) funding, and what recommendations you are making to redirect some esf funding. commissioner, i thank you for your attendance here today, but i think we have a lot more work to do on this subject.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús is trua an rud é nach bhfuil níos mó fear ag glacadh páirte sa díospóireacht seo. bíodh sin mar atá, caithfidh mé a rá gur chuir sé ionadh agus déistin orm nuair a léigh mé faoin difríocht a bhí idir fir agus mná maidir le tuarastail don obair chéanna. geibheann mná 17.5% níos lú tuarastail don obair chéanna. ní ceart é sin in aon chor agus caithfimid deireadh a chur leis an gclaontacht sin. ach ní i dtuarastail amháin atá an chlaontacht le feiscint, phléamar cúpla seachtain ó shin an easpa ban atá ar bhoird chomhlachtaí. agus fiú amháin má fhéachann tú ar na hollscoileanna – cheapfá go bhfuil siad ar thaobh na saoirse agus mar sin de – tá 60% de na mic léinn ina mná, ach ní fhaigheann siad ach 18% de na jabanna is mó. dá bhrí sin is léir go bhfuil claontacht trasna an tsaoil ar fad, agus caithfimid deireadh a chur leis an gclaontacht sin. specifically there are three areas we should concentrate on: (1) enforcing gender equality legislation; (2) introducing quotas, even as an interim measure, where there is under-representation of women; and (3) introducing more specific policies and more generous policies in relation to childcare, maternity leave, and reconciling work and personal life.
mr president, i would like to interject in my capacity as chair of the european parliament delegation with responsibility for switzerland. speaking in a personal capacity, i am concerned by this resolution, which seems to go beyond the issue of residence permits. the resolution was drafted without consultation with our delegation or, indeed, with the swiss mission to the eu. perhaps this is the norm, which i believe should be changed. we should have some input. while i do not have sufficient time to address each aspect of the resolution, i understand that there are some issues which require clarification. i would sincerely hope that this resolution will not tarnish the good relationship between the eu and switzerland, our fourth-largest trading partner. the next eu-swiss inter-parliamentary meeting will take place in berne on 16 july, at which we would hope to have a full and constructive discussion with our swiss counterparts of the delegation on all aspects of the resolution, and i also understand that the issue will be raised in the joint committee of the free movement of persons agreement (fmpa) on 27 june.
madam president, very briefly, i concur with the thanks that mary very kindly mentioned a minute ago. i should just like to say to everybody that the poor children of africa will be the beneficiaries of your generosity by, hopefully, having a longer life and a better quality of life.
madam president, i was pleased to support this resolution here today. i think it is very important, at a time when youth unemployment is higher than we have ever seen in the european union, that we should be engaging in discussions and undertaking initiatives to try and help reduce it. we probably have the best-educated potential workforce of young people in the world. they have studied hard, and now they find – right across the european union – that they cannot get a job. in my country, more than 20% of the youth are unemployed and this is most unfortunate, but at least we are trying to do something about it, and it is important that we create awareness of the initiatives we have, so that young people can avail of them. on the broader front, it is important that secondary-level schools and third-level institutions should be more geared to the market, particularly in the future, so that young people can engage in courses and follow a direction which will lead to employment sooner rather than later.
a uachtaráin, is truamhéalach ar shlí amháin go raibh orainn é seo a phlé inniu, agus bhí an-díospóireacht againn ar maidin. cheapfá sa lá atá inniu ann, nach mbeadh difríocht idir fir agus mná maidir le tuarastal don obair chéanna. ach sin mar atá, agus caithfear deireadh a chur leis chomh luath agus is féidir linn. dá bhrí sin, is maith an rud é gur glacadh leis na moltaí a bhí romhainn anseo inniu. rud amháin go rabhas beagáinín brónmhar faoi, ná nach raibh vóta roll call againn ag an deireadh i dtreo is go mbeadh a fhios againn cá mhéad feisire a vótáil i bhfabhar agus i gcoinne. tá a fhios agam go raibh móramh mór i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo, ach níl na figiúirí againn anois agus is dóigh liom go ndearnadh botún sa mhéid sin.
in writing. − i very much welcome this ep resolution condemning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity and expressing regret that the fundamental rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans-gender people are not yet fully upheld across europe, including in a number of eu member states. lgbt people are too often the target of unacceptable discrimination and sometimes violence. we need first to work on education to combat from an early age sexist prejudice and homophobic stereotypes. cases of self-harm and suicide among young lgbt teens are warning signs of the urgent need to take action. studies show that lgbt young people experience bullying at much higher rates than the general student population and they are less likely to seek support from teachers and adults. i welcome the ep’s clear statement that the rights of lgbt people are more likely to be safeguarded if they have access to legal institutions such as cohabitation, registered partnership or marriage, and the call on all eu member states to consider these. i would urge the commission to now come forward with a comprehensive road map for equality without discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity.
in writing. − the reason i abstained on paragraphs 3, 9 and recital l is that certain sections of this resolution are extraneous to the issue of homophobia. for example, issues of marriage and the recognition of civil status documents are a matter of subsidiarity for member states only. it does great disservice to the fight against homophobia to be trying to make political capital by introducing issues for which parliament has no competence when we should be using all our energies to oppose homophobia. i am dismayed that those who say they are concerned with issues of justice do not give attention to areas of grave injustice about which we could do something, such as gendercide when 100 million females are missing from the world’s population, mostly in countries that receive eu funding.
i scríbhinn. − sa bhliain 2011 ba 22% an ráta dífhostaíochta do dhaoine óga an ae, le ráta níos airde ná 40% in dhá bhallstát. ciallaíonn sin go bhfuil 5.5 milliún duine óg gan phost san ae. tá an leibhéal dífhostaíochta i measc na n-óg in éirinn inniu ar thrí oiread leibhéal na bliana 2008 agus níl fios ceart an scéil againn de bharr an ráta ard imirce. is daoine óga oilte, uaillmhianacha atá i gceist, a bhfuil an cumas acu cur go mór le cumas iomaíochta agus fáis an gheilleagair agus a bhfuil na scileanna acu atá ag teastáil le haidhmeanna na straitéise 2020 don eoraip a bhaint amach. tá ciorruithe buiséid i ngach cearn den aontas ag cur isteach ar chláir um poist agus scileanna do dhaoine óga, agus chuige sin fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil á dhéanamh ag an gcoimisiún chun a chinntiú go mbíonn post, oiliúint nó áit ar chúrsa breisoideachais ar fáil do dhaoine óga laistigh den chéad cheithre mhí i ndiaidh dóibh an scoil a fhágáil. aontaím lena n-iarrtar sa rún go ndéanfadh na ballstáit sin a bhfuil ráthaíocht do dhaoine óga i bhfeidhm cheana féin acu comhoibriú le tíortha eile, cosúil le héirinn, ina bhfuil fadhbanna suntasacha dífhostaíochta i measc na n-óg.
in writing. − i welcome the parliament resolution on the issue of narrowing the gender pay gap. it is totally unacceptable that women still earn on average 16.4% less than men in the 21st century. the eu has been a positive experience in the main for women. directives on equal pay, anti-sex discrimination, and maternity rights have proven effective tools in the struggle for equality. however, member states have been slow to tackle the issue of the gender pay gap through their own national legislation. there is therefore an urgent need to oblige member states to address the issue through legislation, which would include sanctions where action is not being taken to combat these inequalities. moreover, the principle of equal pay must apply to part-time work. women are more often employed in part-time work than men. the gender pay gap for those engaged in part-time work is almost twice as wide as among full-time workers. i also welcome the parliament proposals that member states consider appointing an equal pay champion to monitor and report on the situation in individual member states. having an equal pay watchdog will nudge member states along and ensure that political will for these proposals does not fall by the wayside.
in writing. − i voted for this report on equal pay for male and female workers for equal work because more needs to be done to promote career development under conditions of genuine gender equality. we need to broaden women’s career prospects and change education patterns to have a positive influence in addressing the gender pay gap. it is important to assess the impact of flexicurity strategies on the gender pay gap and determine how these strategies can help tackle gender discrimination. member states, workers’ and employers’ groups need to work together to develop an objective job evaluation instrument to help reduce the gender pay gap. we need to improve and simplify the procedures already in place for defending the principle of equal pay for work of equal value and prohibit any and all forms of gender-based discrimination. member states must provide for the possibility of collective redress against violations of the equal pay principle and allow individuals and representative bodies to bring cases on behalf on complainants to court. we should continue to closely monitor the situation in individual member states and keep national parliaments and the european parliament informed of, continuing gender-based discrimination, and improvements in equal pay.
i think hugo chavez’s proposal to withdraw from the inter-american human rights commission should be seen in context. certainly, saying that the inter-american commission is a tool that the us uses against us is scarcely credible, and it is only right we should express our concerns about it. it should also be seen in the context of what has been happening in venezuela under chavez. i happen to have a brother, a catholic missionary, who has been based in venezuela since 1979, so i am fairly familiar with what is actually happening on the ground. certainly it is not ideal, as some people seem to suggest. there has been increasing control over the media, in particular, and in january 2010 five satellite and cable networks were ordered off the air. also, life has been very difficult for opposition politicians. i think it is very important for us to see that next october’s elections are fair, so that if chavez survives – which is unlikely in view of his state of health, from what i hear – there will be democracy, and not authoritarianism, in venezuela.
madam president, we have another banking bailout and spain is repeating the irish mistake. we have to ask the questions why have spanish bond yields increased today and why it is costing italy more to borrow money? it is because of the toxic link between insolvent banks and sovereign states that are already under significant pressure. spain, like ireland, has piled its debt onto the shoulders of its citizens. ireland, despite the fact that its debt-to-gnp ratio will peak at 150 % next year, still continues to pay unsecured bondholders. unfortunately for spain, it too has joined the club. yes, there are some cosmetic differences and some face-saving for spain. as a large country, it was able to demand and get those few extra crumbs from the table, but that, in the final analysis, is all it amounts to. surely eu leaders can see that we are fast approaching the end of the line. yes, we have bought some time, but the feel-good factor did not last past lunchtime today. we need emergency scaffolding to prop up the crumbling infrastructure of the euro right now, and in my view the minimum required is some kind of banking union, a deposit-interest guarantee scheme, eu-wide banking supervision and regulation and, crucially, some kind of bank resolution scheme.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl duit as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom chun ábhar tábhachtach a ardú, is é sin carranna ar cíos; go háirithe ag an am seo nuair atá go leor teaghlach san aontas ag gabháil ar laethanta saoire agus iad faoi bhrú airgid. many car rental companies require consumers to pay for a full tank of fuel prior to the rental. this is irrespective of the fact that the consumer may return the car to the rental company with fuel remaining and the consumer will not be – and is not – reimbursed. in many cases, holidaymakers rent a car to travel to their destination, return it at the end of their stay and use very little petrol but must pay for a full tank. this practice is unfair, it is unacceptable and indeed it is extortionist. i strongly believe that the commission should investigate this matter to see if this practice is contrary to the unfair commercial practices directive and the unfair contract terms directive. it is not good enough to leave enforcement to national authorities, as the practice appears to be commonplace across many eu member states. i would call on the commission to investigate this.
mr president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur on this very comprehensive report, and also the commission on its communication. i know it is constrained to some extent in its competences, but think it has made the most of it. also, it was very proactive during the european year of volunteering, so well done to the commission on that. there are a number of points that i would like to raise. first of all, there is an issue about economic and financial consolidation in different member states. there is a temptation to cut back on the support that is available to voluntary organisations. i think this needs to be resisted because, while volunteer time is unpaid it is certainly not cost-free, and i think in that context the rapporteur has made two very good suggestions in his report. one of them is that volunteer time could be taken as match funding and this would help voluntary organisations, especially in european programmes. also, in paragraph 46, he calls on the commission to look at some sort of a mechanism to exempt voluntary organisations from vat.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report. as has been said, volunteering and volunteers account for 100 million people, or five percent of voluntary activities throughout the eu. voluntary activities at present are very important to major events, such as the current euro 2012 football championships, the international eucharistic congress and the special olympics, which was very much founded on the basis of volunteers. communities also benefit very much from volunteering, which helps to promote a sense of community through the voluntary organisations that serve them. this report deals specifically with cross-border voluntary activities and emphasises how cross-border activities can promote and enrich young people and volunteers who are involved in these activities through intercultural experience. i very much welcome the proposal for a humanitarian core and i would suggest that there are a lot of people – particularly in ireland – who have taken early retirement and who have quite a lot of skills which they are able give. i would encourage people, perhaps those who have taken early retirement, to use their skills and to get involved in this. i also welcome the skills passport, the removal of a lot of red tape, and the acknowledgement of the importance of volunteering activities for the skills and development of people.
mr president, in commissioner rehn’s opening remarks he declared his ‘deep respect for the principles of democratic scrutiny’. i have to ask him whether there is a room inside the commission where he can leave that deep respect while he gets on with his work, because the reality is that the commission, in collaboration with the establishment political parties across europe, have displayed a deep contempt for any democratic rights throughout the course of the crisis. with the ‘six-pack’, with the austerity treaty and now with the ‘two-pack’, the basic democratic right of elected governments to decide on economic and budgetary policy has been undermined. as always in these institutions, this is shrouded in euphemisms that are largely the ‘defence of the indefensible’, as george orwell said. so let me remove the veil of euphemism. the enhanced surveillance being referred to here means the placing of governments into administration, it provides a legal basis for the semi-colony status of many countries now within the european union, it means the further technocratisation of economic policy and includes a mechanism to force countries into austerity programmes. this is all a means for the commission to employ yet more failed austerity policies – failed from the point of view of the millions, but which work from the point of the views of the multi-millionaires whom the commission and the establishment parties represent.
mr president, this report is an important step towards achieving the millennium development goals and the fulfilment of international commitments to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability. development aid has noticeably reduced poverty in latin american countries. the global, economic and financial crisis has impacted latin america less than other regions. however, this is a region in which 180 million people live below the poverty threshold. the eu is the principal donor of development aid, the principal investor and the second trading partner of this region. it is essential that we continue to support those countries. the rapporteur requests that the commission present a coherent strategy for the gradual withdrawal of bilateral aid to the middle-income countries and that will reinforce aid to the lics, the low-income countries. however, there is a danger in this. it is absolutely crucial that we get this right. withdrawing or redirecting aid too soon could undo all the years of assistance and the good that we have done.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom labhairt faoi ghné áirithe; is é sin an bhliain eorpach um aosú gníomhach agus um dlúthpháirtíocht idir glúine. tá faoin mbliain feasacht a ardú faoin méid a dhéanann daoine scothaosta chun cur leis an tsochaí. táthar ag iarraidh lucht déanta beartas agus páirtithe leasmhara ag gach leibhéal a spreagadh le gníomhú, d’fhonn deiseanna níos fearr a chruthú don aosú gníomhach agus d’fhonn dlúthpháirtíocht i measc na nglún a neartú. aosú gníomhach: sin dul in aois i ndea-shláinte mar lanbhall den tsochaí, mothú níos comhlíonta inár bpost, níos neamhspleáiche inár ngnáthshaol agus níos lárnaí mar shaoránaigh. is cuma cé chomh sean is atáimid, tig linn fós ár bpáirt a imirt sa tsochaí agus taitneamh a bhaint as an saol níos fearr. seo é an dúshlán, fiú nuair a bhímid an-aosta. fáiltím go mór roimh an tuarascáil seo.
mr president, i welcome this report; i certainly think it was an appropriate follow-on from last year, the european year of volunteering. the report contains a number of very important proposals, first of all that the ilo manual on the measurement of volunteer work should be adopted by member states. this would give us good, robust and comparable data across the eu which could be used by policy-makers for making decisions. one of the figures which we already have from the un satellite accounts is that volunteering contributes between 1 % and 5 % of gdp. that certainly indicates that not only is it a social good, it is an economic good. speaking of the economy, it is absolutely essential that, in these times of austerity, there is no adverse impact on voluntary organisations. they need a certain level of assistance and they have shown that they deliver value for money. for every one euro invested in volunteering there is a return of between five and eight euros. we must also remember that, while volunteer time is unpaid, it is certainly not cost-free. so two of the proposals in the report – those on matching funding and vat exemption – deserve our support.
mr president, the role of technology has increasingly expanded in our everyday lives in all of its aspects, from communication to finance and banking, from transportation to energy, from culture and entertainment to health. nowadays, with the increasing use of the internet and computer-based technologies, the security of the internet stands as one of the highest political priorities for the eu and for the rest of the world. the eu 2020 strategy included the eu digital agenda as a flagship policy, setting ambitious goals for the technological development of the eu. the increasing use and deployment of innovative ict technologies and internet services all rely on cyber-security and resilience. the next steps to be taken have to be to increase the focus on international cooperation beyond the borders of the eu. the report is a reaction to the commission’s 2011 communication on critical information infrastructure protection, where parliament recognised that the internet is a critical infrastructure that requires not only protection measures but also the prevention of the internet attacks that have been repeated time and time again. this has to be a priority.
mr president, this is a welcome, practical and well-thought-through report, and i voted for it. as has been said repeatedly today, the eu is a major importer of energy. what the rapporteur wants to do is to coordinate importation of energy in order to enhance our trading power and our influence. european energy policy needs to focus on coordination of energy market rules. i welcome this. the eu needs to assume its place as a leader in energy, regulation and importation. the report emphasises better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries. the report suggests regular coordination among member states, the commission and the council via the strategic group for international energy cooperation. this will undoubtedly increase our bargaining position in the energy market and introduce and promote competition among suppliers. the report suggests a sharing of information, using an information-sharing tool, to collect and make available relevant data on energy programmes and projects in third countries. energy security is absolutely vital to the european project and i welcome the report.
in writing. − i am pleased that this funding for redundant workers in the spanish footwear industry was approved. this funding will assist in the reintegration of the workers into employment. this funding should prove particularly important as 41 % of the redundant workers have only a basic education, while 48 % are uneducated or early school leavers. unless these workers are given an opportunity to upskill or retrain, they will add to the already unacceptably high rate of unemployment in spain. with unemployment at 24.3 %, youth unemployment a staggering 51.5 %, and gdp set to decrease by 1.8 % this year, spanish workers need assistance to give them opportunities to find employment or set up their own businesses. in this context, i call on the council to reconsider its approach on egf and ask the blocking minority to reconsider, to look at the added value of the egf, and to remember in particular the needs of low-skilled and unskilled workers who lose their jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which utilises the european globalisation adjustment fund in the sum of €1,631,565 to support 876 workers in developing new skills and finding new jobs after being made redundant from the spanish footwear manufacturing sector.
in writing. − i support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in favour of the italian regions of tuscany and liguria which experienced severe floods in 2011. this natural disaster caused catastrophic damage to private homes, businesses, agriculture and public infrastructure, and using eu funds to assist in the rebuilding of these is an excellent example of how the solidarity fund can add value to a member state’s reconstruction efforts. while the amount of funding provided is small in comparison to the total cost of damage caused, nonetheless it is a recognition that the eu will stand in solidarity with all its members in the event of a country or region being struck by a disaster.
in writing. − this report calls for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to address flooding in liguria and tuscany in october 2011. i support the report and the assistance it should help to provide.
in writing. − i am happy to support this proposal, as i believe we need to make this investment to ensure the efficient usage of the fund. furthermore, this efficiency will improve the fund’s added value. the monies will be used to provide information both to workers and to the managing authorities who apply for egf funds. in regard to workers, it is extremely important that they are fully informed as to what is happening. also, the managing authorities need the opportunities to learn from best practice elsewhere. having examined most of the egf application as part of the egf working group, it is very clear that some member states have really good systems in place and this delivers much better outcomes for workers. the sharing of this knowledge and mutual learning is extremely valuable and is facilitated by technical assistance funds.
in writing. − this report assists the european commission to finance monitoring, information, administrative support including audit control and evaluation activities necessary to implement the european globalisation adjustment fund. technical assistance is helpful to the smooth running and better functioning of the egf. i voted in favour of this report.
i scríbhinn. − measann 80% de phobal na heorpa gur gné thábhachtach den tsochaí í an obair dheonach. tá breis is 100 milliún duine san ae ag gabháil d’obair dheonach rialta agus ag gineadh 5% d’oti na heorpa. tá idir óg agus aosta san ae ag gabháil d’obair dheonach sna hearnálacha seo a leanas: oideachas, spórt, cultúr, an comhshaol, óige, forbairt inbhuanaithe, sláinte, inimirce, cearta daonna, freagracht shóisialta chorparáideach agus caidreamh an ae le tíortha eile. is cúis áthais ar leith dom gur glacadh leis na moltaí uaimse maidir le creat um cháilíochtaí a chur i bhfeidhm do thraenálaithe deonacha spóirt. ní mór aitheantas a thabhairt don am agus do na acmhainní atá á gcur isteach chun traenálaithe a oiliúint agus ní mór gur scileanna inaistrithe a bheadh i gceist. chuige sin, fearaim fáilte roimh an togra maidir le pas eorpach scileanna d’oibrithe deonacha. cuirfidh an pas leis an tsoghluaisteacht san earnáil dheonach agus ginfidh sé nasc tábhachtach luachmhar idir an fhoghlaim neamhfhoirmiúil agus an t-oideachas foirmiúil. beidh mic léinn níos fearr as anois toisc an fhoghlaim agus scileanna neamhfhoirmiúla a bheith aitheanta faoin gcóras eorpach d’aistriú creidiúna. cuirfidh sé sin le cumas na mac léinn fostaíocht a bhaint amach.
madam president, may i first of all thank baroness ashton for her courtesy and the courtesies of her staff, which were extended to members, and say how much i regret the ungentlemanly behaviour of members of this house who use privilege to hurl abuse. it is not the role of parliament to do that in a debate where people are not in a position to respond themselves. may i say also that i disagree with those colleagues who put forward the view that the special representative for human rights should be a lawyer. i think the person who is appointed will have plenty of advice available to him or her, and what i want is a person who has a good heart, who is impartial, who has courage, who will show good judgment, who has energy and, above all, who is not politically correct; a person who will pursue the truth. human rights are indivisible; they are not just conferred by law. the european consensus on development calls for the issue of gender equality to be a core part of all policy strategies within the european union. we have missing from the world’s population today 100 million women – 100 million females – terminated by infanticide or abortion on no other basis than the fact that they were female. i do not hear anybody mentioning this in this house. i am quite appalled that it has not been mentioned in this house. i want somebody who has the courage to come to this house and talk to us about this issue in an impartial, fair, direct, honest, open way, and who will equally pursue all human rights issues because human rights are indivisible. they apply to all persons by right, and are not conferred by our prejudices or our bias.
mr president, a bbc journalist reporting from syria concluded sadly, but accurately, that what happened in houla at the end of may is terrible but is not unique. only yesterday, another one hundred people, many of them children, are estimated to have died across the country in this conflict that is sliding right into outright civil war. the origins of the uprising in syria as a genuine popular movement against the al-assad police state and against the rule of the crooked elite have been increasingly forgotten by all of the dominant forces. sectarianism is deepening and there is a real danger of a conflict based on sectarian lines spilling over into other countries in the region. as always, it is working people, the poor and children who suffer the most and the crocodile tears of sympathy from the imperialist powers, in my opinion, are deeply sickening, deeply hypocritical considering that the day after the houla massacre a nato drone strike in afghanistan killed eight members of one family. now, the us is using the failure of the so-called six-point peace plan to threaten action outside of it. one thing needs to be very clear: any military intervention, regardless of how it is dressed up, regardless of how it is disguised, will not ease the suffering of the syrian people. the answer can only be a movement that unites working and poor people in syria, regardless of religious and ethnic background, which can meet the aspirations of the participants in the uprising of march 2011.
mr president, i share with other members the condemnation, shock and dismay expressed by lady ashton at the situation in syria. as chair of parliament’s delegation to the palestinian legislative council, i want to focus my remarks, though, on the middle east peace process. i very much welcomed the council conclusions of 14 may committing the eu to the two-state solution, giving palestinian people the right to nationhood and self-determination while at the same time respecting the israeli people’s right to live safely within their own borders. however, the window for a two-state solution is closing rapidly as the peace process is faltering. israel continues to develop and construct illegal settlements – illegal under international law – on the west bank. planning and zoning laws have been used with impunity to dispossess the palestinian people of east jerusalem and destroy infrastructure throughout the west bank, often built with eu funding. mining and quarrying activities deemed also to be illegal under international law are continuing apace at a cost of 720 000 to the palestinian authority. lady ashton, i would like to ask you, how can we ensure that there are consequences for the breaches of international law? how can we preserve east jerusalem as a future capital of two states? how can we ensure that there will be a cessation of evictions and demolitions in area c? how can we prevent the spread of illegal settlements? and can we ensure the release of administrative detainees unless they have actually been charged with criminal offences under law? we need to ensure that there are consequences for the breaches of international law and i would like to know, lady ashton, how you are going to deal with this?
mr president, if we cannot see elections re-run in the congo, let us at least strive for better governance. the connection between natural resource dependence, armed conflict and weak governance is all too evident in sub-saharan africa and what has been occurring in the post-election environment in the democratic republic of congo is a prime example. the trade patterns in favour of hard commodities, due to the growing demand of china and india, set significant challenges for governance and peace-building for both state and non-state actors alike. however, natural resources do not have to be a curse. when european settlers arrived in north america this curse was avoided. these settlers found a resource-rich continent, good soil, timber, vast reserves of gold, silver, coal and oil, and subsequently, over two centuries, america grew to become a prosperous region and a world leader. africa can be the america of the 21st century. it has 60% of the world’s undeveloped arable land, reserves of coal, oil and minerals as well as large amounts of renewable energy resources. for this reason, and in the interests of good governance, new legislation requiring extractive companies to publish payments to governments on a project-by-project basis is welcome. it is a first step in the right direction. four hundred million of the world’s poorest people live in sub-saharan africa. effective management of their natural resources and investment in health and education must go hand in hand with strengthened democratic structures and good governance. if we succeed in changing what has caused the resource curse, then africans should be able to use these resources – their resources – to build stable, democratic societies. the drc can be turned around. good governance will be central to this. that is why good governance must remain a key objective of eu policy.
mr president, firstly i think that we need to draw a line under bailouts. if any other countries need a bailout, they should come out now and say so. this endless speculation about who is going to be next – they will, they will not – has to stop; it has to stop at the next summit. secondly, we need a jobs and growth strategy that can be implemented immediately at the next summit, not some hy-brasil at the end of the rainbow. for that we need real leadership, not self-serving, nationalistic interests. the danish presidency – whom i compliment – mentioned some of the things that we can do immediately, such as the energy directive which, if implemented, would create 400 000 jobs, save energy and help combat climate change. we should also help smes. finally, i want to say that i agree completely with president barroso that we need own resources. i would ask our leaders to show statesmanship in allowing us to have own resources and put an end to this endless speculation about the multiannual financial framework.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, sna laethanta deacra eacnamaíochta atá ann anois, is éasca dúinn a thuiscint an mhoill atá ann maidir le buiséad an chreata airgeadais ilbhliantúil a phlé agus a thabhairt chun críche. tá sé deacair, áfach, glacadh leis an méadú atá á chur le ranníocaíochtaí na mballstát do bhuiséad an ae nuair atá iallach ar thíortha an aontais a mbuiséid féin a ghearradh agus bearta déine a chur i bhfeidhm. tá sé intuigthe freisin go bhfuiltear ag smaoineamh ar chiorruithe a dhéanamh ar bhuiséad an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt), toisc gurb ar an cbt a chaitear mórchuid de bhuiséad an ae. ina ainneoin sin, níor cheart do cheannairí na heorpa laghduithe suntasacha a dhéanamh ar an cbt. faoin cbt, faigheann cáiníocóirí na heorpa luach a gcuid airgid, go háirithe leis na rudaí seo a leanas: slándáil an tsoláthair bhia, bia atá ar chaighdeán ard agus ar phraghas réasúnta a chloíonn le hardchaighdeáin chomhshaoil, bainistíocht inbhuanaithe ar acmhainní nádúrtha agus bearta um athrú aeráide. tá dúshlán mór romhainn: uisce, fuinneamh, talamh curaíochta ag dul i nganntanas agus, faoin mbliain 2050, naoi mbilliún duine le cothú. chuige sin, is botún a bheadh ann buiséad an cbt a laghdú agus cumas iomaíochta agus táirgíochta fheirmeoirí na heorpa a lagú.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa i ngach gné den tuarascáil seo. glacadh leis go héasca ag an deireadh agus is maith sin. tá áthas orm go bhfuil an taontas eorpach ag tabhairt an méid sin cabhrach do na tíortha atá ag forbairt agus tá creidiúint mhór ag dul dúinn faoi sin. ceann de na slite a dhéanaimid é sin ná trí thrádáil. and with regard to trading i think the changes here are desirable. certain countries are coming off the list, i think about 80 out of 120 are remaining on it, and certainly some of those countries should have been taken off the list before now, particularly at a time of economic crisis – and mr hannan referred to the difficulties in many countries at the moment – when we have to think of our own smes, our own companies. having reduced numbers in this scheme is good for those countries and it is good for the european union.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith ba thuarascáil chonspóideach an tuarascáil seo. bhí sé sin le feiscint go soiléir sa díospóireacht a bhí againn sa ghrúpa epp aréir, agus arís inniu ón méid a dúirt mo chomhghleacaithe. bíodh sin mar atá, tá pointí maithe ann agus tá súil agam go dtiocfar ar réiteach maith nuair a rachaidh sé os comhair na trialóige do thuilleadh cainte. tá géarghá le smacht sna tíortha, go háirithe maidir le caitheamh airgeadais. dá bhrí sin bhí áthas orm gur ghlac mo thír féin leis an reifreann coicís ó shin le móramh mór: 60% i bhfabhar. is dóigh liom go bhfuil moladh mór tuillte ag na trí pháirtí mhóra – fine gael, páirtí an lucht oibre agus fianna fáil – as an gceannaireacht a thug siad. tá súil agam go nglacfaidh na tíortha eile leis an gconradh sin go luath freisin agus go n-éireoidh linn fadhbanna an euro a réiteach.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo, ach do staon mise agus mo chomhghleacaithe i bhfine geal i dtaca le mír 3 de na vótaí ansin, mar tá imní orainn faoi chúrsaí cánach. ag an am céanna, bhí 517 feisire i bhfabhar agus 74 i gcoinne. sin tromlach mór i bhfabhar. a luaithe a bhíonn toradh ar na cainteanna, is fearr é. the sooner we have definition and certainty regarding the mff, the better, particularly for the cap, cfp, horizon 2020, etc. we also need some clarity regarding own resources. president barroso was again talking about it this morning. as the former british prime minister, edward heath, said, it is time for us to take the community approach rather than a nationalistic approach. to paraphase the rapper, mr kamal, i might say ‘come on, come on, we do need to see some changes’.
madam president, i voted for this particular resolution today. i think the first thing we have got to do is to congratulate the people of japan on their resilience and the manner in which they have bounced back after the earthquake and the tsunami of march 2011. as a highly developed economy and as a major global trader and investor, japan is an important partner for the eu. japan is the world’s third largest national economy, accounting for around 1.3 % of the world’s population and around 9 % of the world’s gdp. however, it is important – and i stressed this when we discussed negotiations on trade relations with china – that japan remove regulatory barriers to trade as a precondition for launching further negotiations on the eu-japan trade agreement. i agree with the previous speakers, i agree with mr jahr, i agree also with the other two speakers, that what we need to do is to get down to business immediately. trade is crucial if we are to rescue ourselves out of the economic morass in which we find ourselves at present so i welcome the resolution. today is a good day, but let us get on with the business.
madam president, i have always been fascinated by japan. i think its people’s sense of industry, enterprise and willingness to face calamities – as my colleague mr higgins mentioned in regard to the earthquake and tsunami last year – are most admirable. of course, as the world’s third largest national economy, it is important that we trade with them. they are our sixth largest trading partner. we are their third largest trading partner. so obviously the closer the ties are, the better. in the last ten years there have been four important agreements with japan. this needs to be developed into a full fta. there are issues regarding ipr, public procurement and maybe investment that need to be looked at, but japan has shown a willingness to deal with all these issues. it is important now that we have an openness of approach and that we try to reach a full fta with japan, in the interests of our own economy, in the interests of their economy and in the interests of democracy.
madam president, the negotiation and conclusion of the eu free trade agreement with colombia and peru has rightly caused great opposition from trade unionists and from civil society organisations in both europe and in latin america. the human rights and workers’ rights situation, particularly in colombia, remains extremely alarming despite the claim from president santos that his government represents a major departure from the vicious anti-worker and anti-indigenous-peoples government of president uribe. colombia still remains one of the most dangerous places in the world for a trade unionist to be active: 55 human rights defenders were killed or disappeared in 2011 alone, an increase of 40 % compared with 2010. for example, manuel ruíz, leader of the curvaradó peasant community, who was included in the special protection programme by the government, was murdered together with his 15-year-old son on 23 march of this year. the resolution which has been approved by parliament is meant to raise some of its concerns before giving consent to the free trade agreement. i obviously share those concerns. however, this resolution cannot serve as a fig leaf for giving consent to an fta which will largely benefit european corporations.
madam president, what is in this agreement? well, what we have in this agreement basically deals with tariffs, investments, public procurement, services and sustainable development. what is the advantage? obviously there is a mutual advantage for both sides. it will certainly have a positive advantage in terms of trade for both parties. the eu will increase its presence in these dynamic and growing markets, which have produced an increase in gnp of around 1 % in each country. however, i abstained on this particular vote today. i abstained because, as has been said previously, there is a major human rights problem in the shape of the murder of trade unionists, particularly in colombia. the situation is that trade unionists have been murdered and are being murdered by the day. yesterday, my colleagues gay mitchell and mairead mcguinness and i met with the colombian attorney general. we emphasised the fact that something would have to be done. he quoted the figure that between 2010 and 2011 there was a 50 % reduction in trade union murders. much done, but an awful lot more to do.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the two-pack because i believe that to ensure the euro works for everyone, we do need better economic governance at european level, and a good compromise on this has been reached between the political groups, with which we can now negotiate with council. we have to reduce our debts and deficits but one-sided fiscal consolidation will not end the crisis and must be combined with growth. i therefore welcome the support for a growth instrument mobilising 1% of gdp each year for infrastructure investment, and the emphasis on prioritising investments in education, health and areas that have growth and jobs potential. i welcome the support for a debt redemption fund and a eurobonds roadmap, the requirements to respect national practices and institutions for wage formation and the right to take collective action (the ‘monti clause’), the role of the social partners and civil society, and on tackling bankers’ bonuses i’ve set out my positions on the ftt on 23 may 2012 (a7-00352/2011) and on the ccctb on 19 april 2012 (a7-0052/2012) and i refer to those explanations of votes in relation to the two-pack resolutions.
in writing. − i abstained both on the referral back to committee and on the final vote of this report. although i am in favour of the so-called "two pack", i abstained due to concerns in relation to amendment 26, which states that the commission shall examine, and the council shall address, the negative spill-over effects generated by other member states, which would include the field of taxation. it is also unclear whether or not amendments 8, 49, and 54 are aimed at such taxation policy matters, which remain the competence of member states.
in writing. − the fine gael meps abstained both on the referral back to committee and on the final vote. even though we are in favour of the two pack, we had no choice but to abstain due to our concerns in relation to amendment 26, which states that the commission shall examine and the council shall address the negative spill-over effects generated by other member states, including in the field of taxation. it is also not clear that amendments 8, 49, and 54 are not aimed at such taxation policy matters, which remain the competence of member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the two-pack because i believe that to ensure the euro works for everyone, we do need better economic governance at european level, and a good compromise on this has been reached between the political groups, with which we can now negotiate with council. we have to reduce our debts and deficits but one-sided fiscal consolidation will not end the crisis and must be combined with growth. i therefore welcome the support for a growth instrument mobilising 1% of gdp each year for infrastructure investment, and the emphasis on prioritising investments in education, health and areas that have growth and jobs potential. i welcome the support for a debt redemption fund and a eurobonds roadmap, the requirements to respect national practices and institutions for wage formation and the right to take collective action (the ‘monti clause’), the role of the social partners and civil society, and on tackling bankers’ bonuses i’ve set out my positions on the ftt on 23 may 2012 (a7-00352/2011) and on the ccctb on 19 april 2012 (a7-0052/2012) and i refer to those explanations of votes in relation to the two-pack resolutions.
in writing. − although i supported this report i voted against amendment 31, which contains references to a financial transaction tax and the ccctb, since taxation matters remain the competence of the member state.
in writing. − the fine gael meps voted in favour of this report. we agreed with our group and voted against amendments 27 and 67. in amendment 27, it is not clear that it is essential that a redemption fund be established. there are a number of ways in which sovereign debt instruments can be supported at eu level. also, the formulation of debt issuance plans as proposed in amendment 67 is not practical, as member states’ debt issuance offices need to maintain discretion in choosing when to access markets. however, we voted against amendment 31, as it contains references to the ftt and the ccctb.
in writing. − one of the main conclusions of the 2010 national economic and social council (nesc) report ‘re-finding success in europe’ was that europe’s success in achieving its core goals was of ‘critical importance’ to ireland’s sustainable economic and social development. in short, when europe succeeds, ireland succeeds. we have to ensure that the eu budget gives us the means to achieve the targets set in the eu2020 strategy, such as raising the employment rate to 75% and reducing the numbers at risk of poverty by 20 million. the eu budget currently equals just 1% of member states’ gni. those who argue it should be frozen or reduced and who oppose efforts to introduce new revenue streams, should spell out which eu policies they would cut – cap, regional aid, education support, development aid etc? the treaties state that the eu budget must be “financed wholly from own resources”. there are very important issues, including for ireland, to be addressed but the proposed reforms of the current system, such as by introducing a ftt, could help reduce member states’ contributions from 75% to 40% by 2020, saving ireland approximately €500 million annually. these proposals deserve serious consideration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the final text of this report. however, i abstained on paragraph 3 - split votes 3, 4 & 5 - which refer to proposals by the commission on the issue of an eu own resources system, including a financial transaction tax (ftt) and a new eu vat system, since taxation policy matters are a member state competence.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus a bhfuil ann maidir leis an sainúdarás a bheidh ag an ionadaí nua do chearta an duine. ní mór go mbeadh sainordú láidir, neamhspleách, solúbtha ag an ionadaí, nach mbíonn dírithe ar fhreagrachtaí cúnga sonracha amháin. ní foláir gur léiriú ar bheartas um chearta an duine an ae a bheadh sa phost seo, agus go mbeadh cúraimí maidir leis an daonlathas, an ceartas idirnáisiúnta, an dlí daonnúil idirnáisúnta, pionós an bháis a dhíothú, saoirse cainte, saincheisteanna inscne, páistí agus coinbhleacht armtha i gceist leis. táim ag obair faoi láthair le beirt éireannach ar dhá chás éagsúla. sa dá chás tá céile saoránaigh eorpaigh faoi choinneáil thar lear faoi chúinsí doiléire. sa dá chás tá sárú á dhéanamh ar chearta daonna an chéile agus tá a gcearta um eolas agus chun trialach córa á ndiúltú. is í mo ghuí go mbeadh a shainúdarás á úsáid ag an ionadaí speisialta um chearta an duine an ae chun cabhair a thabhairt i gcásanna mar seo, cásanna ina mbíonn leisce ar an gcoimisiún agus ar na ballstáit faic a dhéanamh, cé go mbíonn sárú soiléir ar chearta an duine i gceist.
in writing. − i want to see the adoption of an effective, legally-binding international treaty based on the simple principle of outlawing the international transfer of all conventional arms, related equipment, ammunition and training likely to be used for grave violations of international human rights, humanitarian law or that will adversely affect sustainable development. it beggars belief that we have detailed international rules on the trade of foodstuffs but nothing on conventional arms. international treaties like this do work. the 1997 landmine treaty has reduced landmine casualties by two-thirds and reduced the trade in landmines to almost zero, despite the fact that the us, china, india and russia haven't signed it. i welcome the parliament's insistence that the treaty should cover the widest possible range of activities in the trade in conventional weapons and the widest possible spectrum of conventional weapons, including small arms and light weapons, but i am disappointed that it narrowly voted not to include 'dual-use' goods.. i hope the july un conference will be able to negotiate a strong treaty which should then be incorporated into the domestic legislation of all signatory states, and reinforced through rules such as on regular public reporting.
mr president, it was good to listen to authorities like mr harbour and commissioner barnier here today, and even though mr barnier spoke for 13 minutes and 17 seconds – well beyond his five-minute allocation – it was good that he was allowed to do so, because he had a lot to say in creating the picture of where we are and where we are going to go. he mentioned 12 key levers. among them i want just to mention three. one – standardisation – is absolutely vital. i hear it everywhere: i heard it in the states last week; second, the european patent, which has just been mentioned, at long last beginning to come together; and third, e-commerce. as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on the data protection regulation, i can say that it is going to be a very important part of that. finally, one speaker mentioned that acta was dead. it may be dead, but we need to revive part of it, especially to deal with contraband and counterfeit goods, which are costing the european union millions of jobs and billions of euros.
mr president, ‘towards a job-rich recovery’ is certainly an inspiring title for any communication and indeed the commissioner’s words were inspiring today when he said that we must ensure that employment and social concerns do not lag behind economic concerns. now of course the challenge is to make those fine words a reality and to ensure that our plans and programmes deliver european added value. one very important proposal is the creation of a european investment package to be undertaken by all member states to deliver sustainable jobs. i think this package would send a clear message to citizens that we are seriously attempting to rebalance the current austerity measures or the current austerity approach with the europe-wide pact for investment and jobs. i know that, when 60% of irish citizens voted for the fiscal treaty, they did so in the expectation among other things of a growth and investment pact. this resolution also calls for upskilling and retraining of workers and one current instrument to achieve that at european level is the european globalisation fund. therefore i am appealing to member states not to block its continuation but to work together to ensure that the egf contributes to european added value by upskilling redundant workers.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that one of the key messages from the recent irish referendum is that stability and growth are two sides of the same coin. irish voters endorsed stability, but sent a very clear message in favour of the growth agenda. we now need to make real progress on an investment programme for real, sustainable and quality jobs: a plan which will respect the rights and dignity of workers, promote social justice and fight inequality, in-work poverty and social dumping; a plan which will protect vulnerable workers such as part-time workers, domestic workers and those trapped in the black economy. such a plan should also address the need for investment and growth industries such as the green economy and creative industries. it should ensure that finance is made available for smes, the backbone of the european economy. we need specific actions to tackle youth unemployment, including a binding european youth guarantee. we also need to adopt a quality charter on internships. too many young people are on their fourth or fifth unpaid internship with no job in the offing. commissioner, the commitment of this parliament to growth and to jobs is real. we welcome your proposal and we look forward to working with you in the delivery of this proposal.
madam president, female genital mutilation (fgm) is a dangerous and degrading practice. it violates women’s human rights, their right to sexual and reproductive health and their dignity. many of the women who have suffered fgm end up being scarred both emotionally and physically. in ireland, we passed legislation recently, just in april, outlawing fgm. this legislation also makes it illegal to aid or abet the procurement of fgm, even outside of ireland, so nobody can be taken outside of that country. the campaign to enact legislation in ireland was very much spearheaded by a young somali woman who led a group of young women called ‘the united youth of ireland’ which organised fashion shows and awareness-raising programmes throughout ireland. in addition, the ‘end fgm european campaign’, which is led by amnesty in ireland, has called for data collection, the training of health workers – which is really important, particularly in maternity hospitals – educational activities, training of police forces and training of the judiciary. i hope that the transnational projects that have been referred to may be able to fund some of these projects into the future. the commissioner mentioned the directive relating to the victims of crime. i would just like to ask him whether that directive will actually contain a specific reference to the victims of fgm, because i believe that is very important. finally, i very much welcome the fact, commissioner, that you have stated that the eeas will be raising this in external countries as well as i believe that this is a very welcome development.
madam president, this is a very important debate, but while we are talking about this particular scandal, we have to recognise that the european medical devices industry has been very innovative and has helped patients a great deal. so i welcome the balanced approach of the commission in relation to improving our regulatory system. i am against paragraph 7 because it will overdo things and take away the possibility of the industry being innovative. what we are trying to strike here is a balance between what is good for patients and improving the quality of life of those who need medical devices. could i just say on a slightly different theme, picking up on the point made by ms mcavan, that we have had a debate on female genital mutilation and we are now having a debate on breast implants. sometimes these are used by very young girls who chose this process and who, as ms mcavan pointed out, do not understand the consequences of it. while the debates are not linked, it is interesting that, on this occasion, we are having them both tonight. my main point is, however, that with regard to the progress made for people who have had hip implants or knee implants, and whose quality of life has been improved by the european medical devices industry, we need to allow this to flourish and grow. we need to better regulate the notified bodies, as has been suggested, and not stifle innovation. the separate issue of breast implants calls for another debate, about society and pressure on young women. perhaps we can have that another time.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate mr stevenson on the preparation and presentation of his report. i fully support the recommendations contained in the report and, in particular, the need to consult with the pelagic rac and the stecf on a regular basis. the advice and input of stakeholders is invaluable and results in greater compliance and support for sustainable fisheries management. the rapporteur explicitly refers to the ordinary legislative procedure because of the council’s refusal to respect the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. as commissioner dalli has said, there is an interinstitutional disagreement. is it a question of the council not being prepared to cede power? the loser is the fishing sector and sustainable fisheries. as the rapporteur for a similar report dealing with the long-term management plan for atlantic and horse mackerel, i too have experienced exactly the same problem. this is, of course, a crisis and must be resolved sooner rather than later. it does not appear that it is going to be resolved in the mandate of this presidency but, having met with the cypriot minister yesterday, i hope he will take ownership of this and try to resolve it. in relation to horse mackerel, the council favours the removal of all references to the harvest control rule which is, of course, so important because mackerel is known as a determinate spawner and the harvest control rule is the one which we should follow. ironically, while i agree on a tac and quotas for horse mackerel over the last few years, the council have adopted this principle but will not accept it. in relation to the meeting in luxembourg of 12 june 2012, i have observed how certain ministers have spurned the outcome of the council meeting. the manner in which some ministers completely ignored the role of parliament as a co-legislator does not bode well for the negotiations which lie ahead on the reform of the common fisheries policy. finally, we all support the minimisation of discards as this is in everyone’s interest. the position adopted by the council in this case is flawed. avoidance, minimisation and escapement in the first instance is key. landing dead fish does not contribute to sustainable fisheries management. we must endeavour to avoid the fish in order to allow them to survive, grow and provide fish for the future. i am disappointed that the council is not here today, because our problem and our difference is with the council, not with the commission. i hope that it gets a very clear message from this morning’s session that it must engage with us and resolve this issue.
a uachtaráin, níl an t-eolas céanna agamsa agus atá ag daoine cosúil le pat the cope gallagher agus an tuasal stevenson ar iascaireacht. ach ós rud é go bhfuil a lán iascairí i mo cheantar féin, is maith liom na díospóireachtaí seo a leanúint agus cuireann cuid de na rudaí a chloisim ar maidin saghas déistin orm. having wonderful experts here in parliament who take a great interest in fishing, it is somewhat disappointing to hear of their frustration at being blocked by the council, as indicated by mr stevenson and mr gallagher amongst others. i do not think this is acceptable. the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty must be observed and certainly we, as a parliament, have to stand up for our rights to ensure that there is fair play all round. we have a huge task at hand regarding fishing and we have to look at the issues mentioned here this morning. multiannual management plans are essential, as is dealing with discards and so forth. i look forward to the next two presidencies – the cypriot and the irish – hopefully doing that.
mr president, my thanks to the commissioner for a very clear message here this morning that the commission is not for turning. it is not what i wanted to hear, but at least it is clear. i think we should say to dairy farmers in several member states, including my own of ireland, that this is the position as of now. however, i am not going to be defeated and just accept the commission’s word. there are a number of member states which are farming states, and those people who want the situation to remain as it is should remember that they are paying 56 million to the coffers of the european union, despite the fact that the european union is producing milk under its quota at the moment. this is neither fair nor just, and we need to look at reducing the super-levy charge on these farmers. we also could and should look at the butterfat correction mechanism to make some adjustments and perhaps frontload the quota increase. so, while you are not for turning this morning, commissioner, please take back some of my ideas to your colleagues and see what might be done. can i say generally, on the issue of quotas – which is the broader issue here today – please remember that when we had quotas, the milk price collapsed in 2009. so quotas did not save us from a milk price collapse. also, it is dangerous for europe to say that we will restrict production while the rest of the world expands production. we are losing opportunities. we need a more sophisticated debate. we need to protect those vulnerable regions where we want to have production – and we can do that through various mechanisms – but let us not retreat within the european union at a time when the medium- to long-term prospects for dairying are positive. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i hope i am getting the sense of your question. i mean, i do not mind who is at fault. i think we have an issue here. dairy farmers want certainty. they have been told that milk quotas will be abolished by 2015 and they were told there would be a ‘soft landing’. we know one of those two things will be delivered on. we have not delivered on the ‘soft landing’. i am saying that there is an opportunity for the european union to produce milk in a sustainable way and to feed into global demand for dairy products. it seems to me that our debate this morning is stifling that possibility. i want dairy farmers to understand what the commission has said, because irish farmers are paying a super-levy bill of eur 11 million. they are young, they are enthusiastic and they are those who are our future. they are being penalised for all of those things and i regret that that is the case. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i could answer with a question, but i will be much more direct on this issue. the milk quota system failed to protect farmers from income price collapse in the past, which means that system failed. we have made a decision to scrap it. i wish we would not start talking about possibly changing that decision unless we are clear that can be the case. the decision has been made. on the issue of milk production, my point is this: if the european union, and ireland as a member state of the european union, can produce milk competitively – and we supply europe and beyond – we should be allowed to do that in a sustainable way. i am arguing here not against your point, but against this negative view that we restrict our production all the time, which has worked against us. the quota system has introduced rigidity and high costs into our system. we can – using politics as peter jahr said – have a milk production system in europe that feeds the global demand. otherwise we are saying, ‘new zealand you go do it’, ‘the us, you do it’, and that europe will retreat. it is not good for farmers in europe and it is not good for farmers in ireland.
mr president, i had not intended speaking in this debate, but just want to make three points: first, looked at objectively, the fact that farmers in europe have to pay a eur 56 million super-levy, when europe as a whole is under quota, makes absolutely no sense. what does it say about solidarity? what does it say about the single market? certainly it does not say much for political decision-making. secondly, the decision has been made to abolish quotas post-2015. that should not be changed. we have the same carry-on with the sugar beet quota, trying to change that abolition as well. it takes a long time, particularly for dairy farmers, to plan for expansion into the future, and those already planning need the certainty that there will be no change in those decisions. thirdly, the world population is seven billion as of now, and expected to rise to nine billion over the next 20 or 30 years. with the same amount of land and more food needed, this is an opportunity for farmers to expand. as my colleague mrs mcguinness said, are we going to leave it all to new zealand and the us and disadvantage our own farmers? it makes no sense whatsoever.
mr president, there are two points i did not get a chance to make: one referred to a comment from ms de lange and my colleague mr agnew on supermarkets and prices. this is an issue which we need to look at, not just as regards dairy products, but also as regards fairness in the food supply chain. we are looking forward to the commission’s report on this matter because it will feed into how farmers survive, not just in mountain regions, but right across the european union. i support your efforts in that regard, commissioner. on the point of regional and territorial balance, i think this house generally supports the idea of family farming in the european union and farming on a territorial basis. the dairy farms which i refer to in ireland are family farms and we too, in our country, want regional dairy production; we do not want concentration with any particular region. i repeat the point that quotas may have given certainty and volume, but they did not give dairy farmers certainty on price or income in the bad times.
a uachtaráin, d’éisteas leis an díospóireacht go léir ar thuarascáil stevenson anseo ar maidin, agus caithfidh mé a rá gur chuir sé déistin orm a chloisteáil nach bhfuil an chomhairle ag tabhairt aitheantais do chonradh liospóin agus na cumhachtaí nua atá an bparlaimint dá bharr. nuair a thuigeann tú go bhfuil saoithe cosúil leis an uasal stevenson, pat the cope gallagher, an tuasal cadec, an tuasal kuhn, an tuasal davies agus mar sin de ag déanamh a ndíchill agus ag obair go dian chun fadhbanna atá ag na hiascairí a réiteach agus nach bhfuil siad ag fáil cothrom na féinne ná comhoibriú ón gcomhairle, níl sé sin ceart agus níor cheart dúinn cur suas leis. díreach anois vótáil tromlach mór i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo: 593 i bhfabhar as 610 a vótáil ar fad. tá súil agam go dtabharfaidh sé sin spreagadh don uasal stevenson leanúint ar aghaidh leis an dea-obair.
mr president, i support the rapporteur on what i believe is quite a proportionate document that improves the current situation. it is also important to say that current eu legislation recognises that breastfeeding is best for infants and that from six months infants need a diversified and safe diet. however, i voted against amendment 86, which seeks to severely restrict advertising of infant formula and follow-on infant formula to specialist baby care magazines and/or scientific publications. this is going much too far. it restricts consumer choice – not many consumers purchase specialist magazines or scientific publications. it would also ban television advertising, and this is neither proportionate nor reasonable. i agree there should be a clear distinction between infant formula and follow-on formula, but not a virtual ban on advertising. while member states may decide to further restrict advertising, an eu-wide ban on advertising infant formula and follow-on formula, with the exception of the magazines i mentioned, is not proportionate.
mr president, to add another cliché to the long list, sometimes in this parliament we talk about the ‘democratic deficit’. well, this is one of the ways of dealing with the democratic deficit. i often say to citizens, you do not just vote for your meps: there are other ways and mechanisms whereby you can influence what happens in this parliament, and one is by being involved in consultation processes. i regularly update citizens and interested groups on the ongoing consultation processes because i believe they are a very useful tool. but it is really important that citizens can communicate in their own language. for example, it is very important that irish speakers can communicate with the commission in their own native language. language is not necessarily the only barrier, however, and it is equally important for persons with a disability to be able to communicate in an accessible format. finally, i believe the timeline needs to be looked at. if you are big lobby group or a big ngo, a short space of time is enough to get involved in a consultation, but for ordinary people who do not have the same resources at their disposal, consultation periods need to be longer.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil leis an ngrúpa sna vótaí go léir a bhaineann leis an bpáipéar tábhachtach seo, taobh amuigh d’eisceacht amháin. is í an eisceacht sin, leasú 8 maidir le mír 42(a), mar a luaitear ‘to coordinate taxation policies’. tá amhras orainn faoin bpolasaí seo agus go dtí go mbíonn léiriú cinnte ar cad atá i gceist ann, tá leisce orainn vótáil ina fhabhar. sin an fáth gur staonamar, ní rabhamar ina choinne go hiomlán. é sin ráite, tá a lán moltaí maithe anseo; agus a luaithe agus is féidir linn an margadh aonair a chríochnú is ea is fearr dúinn é. mar ina dhiaidh sin, is féidir linn éalú as an ngéarchéim eacnamaíochta, agus fás agus forbairt a chothú san eoraip.
mr president, i agree with mr hannan. it certainly is an inspiring title for the report. the truth is that if we use an inspiring title like that then we have to make sure that we deliver, that it is real. in that context it is very important that this morning we voted to back an investment package which is to create sustainable jobs, because i believe this sends a clear message to citizens that we are now seriously attempting to rebalance the current austerity approach with a europe-wide pact for investment and jobs. i hope the council is listening and takes action. i also know that when irish citizens voted for the fiscal compact that they were expecting such an investment pact as part of the overall package. of course, the tools at the disposal of the european institutions to boost employment are limited. i believe that the call in this resolution to upskill workers and retrain them is one where there is european added value, and in this context i would strongly call on the council to remove the blocking minority as far as the continuation of the european globalisation fund is concerned and to leave that instrument there to upskill redundant workers.
a uachtaráin, rinne mé botún beag amháin sna vótaí anseo. theastaigh uaim vótáil leis an ngrúpa i ngach aon vóta; ach in uimhir a haon, an chéad ghlaoch rolla, bhrúigh mé an cnaipe mícheart. scríobh mé go dtí na seirbhísí faoi sin. under our 2020 strategy we have a target of creating 75 % employment for those of employable age by 2020. at the moment there is about 68 to 69 %, and while 6 or 7 % might not seem a whole pile, when you actually transfer it into numbers it is about 17.6 million jobs. certainly a job-rich recovery is required and while, as mr hannan and others mentioned, politicians cannot create jobs per se, we can create the conditions. it was encouraging yesterday to hear the points mentioned by commissioner barnier in that regard – standardisation, completing the single market, growth of e-commerce etc., and particularly the european patent. all these taken together can help. hopefully, by 2020, we will be in the situation of having reached our target of 75 % of people of working age being employed.
in writing. − the proposed regulation is intended to update, harmonise, and simplify eu rules on specialised food products, namely dietetic foods and foods for particular nutritional uses. the proposal abolishes the concept of dietetic foods and provides for a new framework establishing general provisions only for a limited number of well-established and defined categories of food that are considered as essential for certain vulnerable groups of the population, i.e. food intended for infants and young children. the proposal also aims to create a single legal measure that regulates lists of substances such as vitamins, minerals and other substances that may be added to the categories of food covered by this proposal. i support the calls in this report for the regulation of gluten-free products under the existing food information to consumers regulation.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i bhfábhar na tuarascála seo agus a bhfuil ann maidir leis an bhfás geilleagrach agus an bhfostaíocht a spreagadh san aontas eorpach. anuas ar sin, tacaímid go láidir leis an gcomhrac i gcoinne na himghabhála agus na seachanta cánach ar an leibhéal náisiúnta agus eorpach, ach vótálamar in ainneoin sin i gcoinne leasú 8 toisc a bhfuil ann maidir le beartais cánachais a chomhordú. is inniúlacht náisiúnta é an cánachas agus ní mór don choimisiún eorpach agus do pharlaimint na heorpa meas a bheith acu ar sin. ní dhéanfadh córas um chomhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite maitheas ar bith d’fheidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair agus d’fhéadfadh fiú go ndéanfadh sé dochar do gheilleagair beaga oscailte cosúil le héirinn.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for resolution. however, i abstained on amendment 8. whilst i support measures to assist in the fight against the evasion and avoidance of tax at national and european level, i do not support references to a harmonised eu taxation policy since taxation policy matters are a member state competence.
in writing. − i am very encouraged by the strong support for the eradication of fgm in the european parliament. i hope that the support for this resolution will precede to stronger action throughout the eu. female genital mutilation (fgm) causes untold suffering and victims of fgm are scarred for life, both physically and emotionally. there can be no justification for such acts of violence and there can be no tolerance for those who perform or who facilitate the practice of fgm in the eu. the eu has a significant role to play in the eradication of fgm not only throughout europe but also on a global level. specifically i will be seeking the implementation of the recommendations of end fgm european campaign led by amnesty ireland. i look forward to further progress in this area.
in writing. − that so many women have been put at a considerable risk by defective breast implants is a failure of the regulatory system at eu level. it is encouraging to note that eu legislation in this area is to be revised later this year. today’s vote is important in ensuring that more stringent safety checks and increased product traceability is introduced in regard to breast implants. products such as these should not be allowed to retail without such measures in place. in this context, the passing of today’s resolution should help to institute important industrial change.
in writing. − the resolution on pip is in general a positive one except where parliament, by a small majority, voted to ask the commission ‘to shift to a system of pre-market authorisation for medical devices of certain classes’. this makes no sense, as we already have pre-market authorisation in place for these medical devices. the pip case has nothing – i repeat, nothing – to do with authorisation; it concerns fraud. it shows up a weakness in the process where the competent authorities did not exercise adequate controls. the problem is with market control, not with authorisation. parliament missed the target on this one, but i was very pleased to hear commissioner dalli’s words to the effect that he fully recognised that the pip case was one where the competent authorities were not consistently vigilant in regard to patient safety, and this case had nothing to do with pre-market authorisation.
in writing. − the revision of the medical devices directive must take on board the lessons learned from the pip scandal which has affected so many women in the european union and beyond. pip was deliberate criminal activity but we have to recognise that the european medical devices industry has been very innovative and has helped patients a great deal, facilitating healthcare innovation and patient access to new technologies. this report calls for improved transparency, tighter control of notified bodies, improvements in vigilance, market surveillance and traceability of products - all are welcome. i did not support the inclusion of paragraph 7 on the introduction of a system of pre-market authorisation. europe already has in place an effective de-facto pre-market authorisation system and further regulation could stifle innovation. what we are trying to strike here is a balance between what is good for patients and improving the quality of life of those who need medical devices.
mr president, my colleague mr tannock, going at breathtaking speed, outlined very clearly the situation in the sahel, which is one of the poorest regions in the world. unfortunately it is a desperate situation. side by side with poverty you have the existence of organised crime and that dreadful outfit al-qaeda also operating there. it is a paradox, because without improving the situation regarding poverty it is difficult to improve the security situation; without improving the security situation it is difficult to deal adequately with poverty. madam de keyser asked the very pertinent question of what we can do about it, and she very sensibly said we should consult with reputable groups within the region and probably also the african union. certainly we must do whatever is required – if that means short-term military intervention it should be considered – but we have to create the conditions for democracy to thrive while, at the same time, helping people get out of the poverty trap.
mr president, as has been said, the situation in the philippines is not very pleasant and it is not the first time we have had to discuss it here in parliament. certainly the endless killings, particularly between 2001 and 2009, when 59 journalists were killed, are not acceptable. the fact that only five people were tried and there were no convictions is also very worrying, and does not say much for the judicial system in the philippines. as a result of that, it is not surprising that a year and a half after president aquino took office there was a protest march. one of the banners in that protest march said ‘500 days since the massacre is time for aquino to act’. there was much expected of him when he took over as president and, while there has been some improvement, it is not enough. certainly we need to put pressure on him to end the impunity of members of the police force and the military, to end corruption and to end violence, particularly against would-be witnesses.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i want to commend ms ţicău. she has worked tirelessly on this report and she has done her utmost to ensure that the shadow rapporteurs were kept abreast of all the latest developments, and to get compromises between the viewpoints from the different groups in this parliament. this proposal aims to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of tachographs and to ensure that professional drivers respect the rules on driving hours and rest periods – something which we clearly need to look at in the eu. the commission proposed, on 19 july 2011, to revise the tachograph legislation to make fraud more difficult and to reduce the administrative burden. according to the commission, this is expected to save companies eur 515 million per annum. ms ţicău has taken a basic proposal from the commission and has improved on it immeasurably. we badly need technical updating, notably to preserve the security level of the digital tachograph. it will be necessary, therefore, to upgrade the security mechanisms to preserve the current level of security and to avoid fraud and tampering with the data recorded by tachographs. these changes will require a migration strategy in order to ensure compatibility between the existing cards and the vehicle units in operation and those to be introduced. nine percent of the control vehicles are found to be breaching the social rules. roughly one quarter of them are found to be breaching the tachograph regulation in particular. on average, at any one time, around 45 000 vehicles are in breach of the eu tachograph rules. failure to respect the minimum breaks and rest periods, and the maximum driving times, can lead to more fatigued drivers and a potential road safety risk. we need to look at harmonisation of the training of control officers; we need to provide control officers with adequate and type-approved software; and we need a binding categorisation of very serious infringements of the tachograph regulation.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar fíorthábhachtach seo. molaim an coimisiún agus an rapóirtéir as ucht na moltaí atá siad ag cur romhainn. nuair a thuigtear go gcailleann an taontas eur 250 billiún in aghaidh na bliana, agus 100 000 jab, is fiú dúinn rud éigin fiúntach a dhéanamh agus táimid ag tosú anseo um thráthnóna. apart from the loss of eur 250 billion and 100 000 jobs, and the danger to the health and safety of citizens, it is quite obvious that we have a major problem here and i welcome the inititive to try and deal with it, especially in relation to intellectual property rights. when we consider the economic crisis and this huge sum of money that we are losing annually, it is quite obvious that if we can tackle this we will be making a major contribution not only to the lives of our citizens but also to the economy. i especially welcome the suggestions to have procedures simplified to allow customs officials to deal with matters effectively, and hopefully we can make progress on this matter.
mr president, the rise in the detention of counterfeit and pirated goods by the eu customs authorities is undeniably worrisome, for counterfeit medicines pose real threats to our citizens’ lives and their well-being, not to mention other serious sources of risk to health and safety which penetrate the internal market every year. moreover, european businesses incur substantial losses that can be curbed by effective enforcement of intellectual property rights (ipr) at the eu borders. we must be mindful however that the enforcement of intellectual property rights is not an end in itself. in order for us to effectively protect consumers’ legitimate business interests and stimulate innovation, we need to take a broad approach to ipr. intellectual property issues are played out in a wider economic commercial and legal context. fortunately we have managed to exclude travellers’ personal luggage from the scope of this proposal and to take account of the specific nature of small consignments in a single package intended for the personal use of consumers. i have serious concerns with the narrow time frames foreseen for customs procedures and especially with the approach taken to goods in transit. we must not impinge on the free movement of goods such as generic medicines.
madam president, i too would like to thank our rapporteur, richard seeber, for what is a very comprehensive report on water. of course, richard, this is your area of expertise, so we expected what we got. in terms of the content of the report, paragraphs 16 and 15 are particularly important: on the need to reduce water consumption by better design and by water-saving devices rather than taking a punitive approach to the public. there are ways, using technology, that we can manage our resources better and this is all part of the europe 2020 strategy on resource efficiency. as the report points out, 20% of water is lost due to inefficiency. i am interested too in how this report will impact on our discussions on the reform of agricultural policy. the commissioner has said that he intends to deepen cross-compliance in agriculture through the water framework directive, and i wonder how that will be done in a positive way in terms of agriculture and the environment, because sometimes when we legislate we create difficulties for farmers. so perhaps you could comment on that point, commissioner.
madam president, i am reminded of the famous quotation: ‘water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink’. thankfully, while that is not the case generally, it is clear, listening to discussions tonight, that water quality is not what it should be in many areas, and that needs to be addressed. having said that, in my own country at least, the quality of water in rivers and lakes, and for drinking, has improved dramatically over recent years. pillar 2 of the common agricultural policy has played a particularly big part in that, because pollution from silage run-off and nitrogen run-off, etc. is a thing of the past. it is important, therefore, that this question should continue to be an aspect of the new cap negotiations, so that improvement in the environment and particularly in water quality will remain a priority. i must make the further point, however, that it is unfortunate that 20% of water is lost – particularly through underground leaks – and that too needs to be addressed as a priority.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom an nóiméad seo a úsáid chun aird na parlaiminte a dhíriú ar an obair iontach tábhachtach atá á déanamh ag na múinteoirí sna bunscoileanna, go háirithe sna héicea-scoileanna, maidir leis an mbratach ghlas. tríd an scéim seo foghlaimíonn na daltaí faoi athrú aeráide, an comhshaol a chaomhnú agus meas a bheith acu ar a dtimpeallacht. ina lán de na scoileanna, chuirfeadh sé iontas ort an méid eolais atá ar na hábhair seo ag na daltaí – fiú amháin daltaí óga. dá bhrí sin, is fiú aitheantas a thabhairt do na scoileanna agus go háirithe do na múinteoirí sna scoileanna seo. molaim don pharlaimint agus don choimisiún gradam éigin a bhronnadh, ní hamháin do scoileanna maidir leis an mbratach ghlas, ach ar na múinteoirí a bhfuil an t-uafás oibre á déanamh acu ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo, agus a lán de go deonach. tá gaisce á dhéanamh acu agus tá moladh tuillte acu.
madam president, the decision at the european summit last week to unshackle banking debt from sovereign debt is very welcome. ireland has borne a disproportionate burden arising from our banking system collapse. indeed the irish people were not responsible for the global banking crisis, yet they are being asked to pick up the tab for irresponsible decisions made on their behalf or because of lack of control or regulation. the concrete decisions made at last week’s summit will enable ireland to emerge from the troika programme and hopefully will facilitate a speedy return to the markets. indeed this was the hope when the irish people voted for the stability pact on 31 may, yet if we had listened to those who advocated a ‘no’ vote and who wanted to veto the esm, none of this would have been possible. but the current focus on banking union and closer fiscal union should not lose sight of the need to provide a social dividend. in that context the commitment to a eur 120 billion investment package, additional resources for the european investment bank and agreement on project bonds are most welcome, as is the language and the emphasis on growth and public investment. i believe that the next step must be a social investment pact which will help us achieve the goal of a fairer society.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh thorthaí an chruinnithe mullaigh a tháinig le chéile sa bhruiséil an tseachtain seo caite. the agreement by eu leaders to use the european stability mechanism (esm) in principle to directly recapitalise eurozone banks is a welcome and overdue development. this is a major step forward for ireland and may potentially result in the restructuring of debt, which should result in a reduction in the burden on the irish taxpayer. tuigim go mbeidh na hairí airgeadais ag dul i mbun idirbheartaíochta maidir le fiacha na mbancanna in éirinn go luath. any outcome of negotiations must ensure that ireland receives equal treatment vis-à-vis spain and other eurozone states. the outcome of the summit also justifies the decision of the irish people to ratify the fiscal stability treaty by referendum, which guarantees access to the esm. in conclusion, the esm is an important safety net for ireland and the eurozone. the decision of eu leaders to break the link between bank debt and sovereign debt must result in tangible benefits to ireland.
i scríbhinn. – tacaím le barúil an rapporteur maidir le castacht rialacha eorpacha agus náisiúnta i dtaca le leas ainmhithe agus na sáruithe ar na rialacha sin agus mar atá sin ag saobhadh cursaí iomaíochais. tá difríochtaí móra ann anois idir coinníollacha leasa ainmhithe na mballstát. is é is mó atá ag cur bacainne roimh dul chun cinn ar chaigheáin leasa ainmhithe san eoraip ná deacrachtaí ó thaobh na rialacha a chur i bhfeidhm,agus é seo mar thoradh ar easpa sceidil garspriocanna dlíthiúla. tacaím le moltaí na tuarascála maidir le hacmhainní na hoifige bia agus tréidliachta a mhéadú d’fhonn iniúchtaí na mballstát ar leas ainmhithe a rialú agus chun pionós a ghearradh i gcás sáraithe. le linn na díospóireachta, rinneadh plé suntasach ar iompar ainmhithe agus ar an bhfeachtas atá ar bhun teorainn ama ocht n-uair a chloig a chur le tréimshe iompair ainmhithe. cé go bhfuil tuarascáil eile chun déileáil leis an tsaincheist sin sna seachtainí atá amach romhainn, ní mór é a rá anseo freisin gurb iad an forfheidhmiú agus an forghníomhú éifeachtacha is fearr chun a chinntiú go bhfuil an dlí á chur i bhfeidhm sna ballstáit agus go bhfuil ainmhithe á n-iompar go daonnúil.
mr president, road accidents take a deadly toll on our societies, and, as my colleagues have said, full implementation of the automated ecall system would allow us to save thousands of lives. unfortunately the take-up of this system, which has been an eu priority for 10 years, remains negligible and is confined to very high-end vehicles. it is obvious that the market-led approach taken so far has failed and will fail to mainstream this lifesaving technology, so i thank ms sehnalová and mr koch for their work on this report and i endorse their proposals to make the 112-based ecall system mandatory and free of charge for all new vehicles by 2015. the commission’s impact assessment clearly demonstrates the necessity of legislating along these lines so as to secure universal adoption and economies of scale. i am particularly eager to see the benefits of ecall materialise in rural areas, where the system has the potential to reduce emergency response times by half. lives can be lost on rural roads in isolated areas, especially where the precise location of the vehicle cannot be established. i thus look forward to the commission proposal to make the deployment of ecall mandatory.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom freisin mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl do phríomh-aire na danmhairge as an sárjab a rinne siad san uachtaránacht. gan dabht ar bith, lean mise na díospóireachtaí go léir agus bhí siad an-díograiseach agus d'éirigh linn a lán dul chun cinn a dhéanamh. ba mhaith liom iad a mholadh go háirithe as ucht na táillí fánaíochta a shocrú. déanfaidh sé sin an-difríocht do shaoránaigh trasna na heorpa ar fad agus rinne siad gaisce freisin maidir le cúrsaí fuinnimh. bhí sé sin an-tábhachtach chomh maith. ag an am seo, an bhliain seo chugainn, beidh mo thír féin, éire, ag críochnú ár sé mhí in uachtaránacht ar an gcomhairle agus tá súil agam go ndéanfaimid go sármhaith agus go gcruthóimid rudaí a dhéanamh i gceart amhail mar a rinne an danmhairg. dá bhrí sin, críochnóidh mé leis an danmhairg a mholadh as ucht an dea-jab a rinne siad agus táimid buíoch dóibh.
mr president, i welcome the steps towards banking union which came out of this meeting. i also welcome the steps on bank borrowing. in fairness, i say to the president of the commission that ireland’s position does need special attention. i do not think that we should ask any member state to carry an undue burden and, where there is responsibility, there must be solidarity. i want to thank anna záborská for what she said in support of ireland and the european investment bank. i welcome also what was said by president van rompuy when he spoke about mastering this step by step. this is not easy when you need unanimity, but this makes the case for more europe, not more intergovernmentalism. what we need right now are the skills of a fisherman, not of a publicist. when you have got a fish on the line, you need the right breaking strength. if you try to land the fish too soon, the line breaks and the fish gets away. if you let the line loose, the fish gets off and the fish gets away. this requires the skills of an angler, not the skills of a publicist. so far we have done very well in that regard. i want to see, please, more emphasis on growth, jobs and hope. i welcome the change in emphasis that has come about in that regard. in time, it is possible if we turn this around that people will look back on europe and say: that was a golden era. the berlin wall came down and we incorporated those member states into the union. we did not repeat what happened in the first half of the last century when 60 million people died. the biggest financial crisis came our way and we dealt with it. it is possible for us to make this a golden era. i welcome the steps that have been taken so far.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacú leis an tuarascáil seo chomh maith. luíonn sé le réasún go mbeadh comhoibriú idir réigiúin má coinníollacha eatarthu. mr president, my esteemed colleague, ms yannakoudakis, expressed her disapproval at the fact that there is a baltic strategy, a danube strategy and now a mediterranean strategy. i am sorry to disappoint her, but we hope to have an atlantic strategy soon as well. for me it makes sense, because if there are shared synergies then there should be shared policies. this way we can coordinate better and get better results for our people, particularly in relation to the sea, and not just in terms of fishing. we are also looking at the potential of marine energy – which is very important – and the growth of marine tourism, which is a great opportunity for us to get out of the economic crisis and to grow jobs, etc., within the european union.
mr president, the recast of the railway package represents a further step towards the full liberalisation of european railways. i stand with european rail workers in opposing this, because it is all about developing the railways into a nice profitable treat for the private sector to gobble up. it runs against the interests of both workers and consumers. the so-called rail maintenance facility, for instance, will lead to further privatisation and outsourcing of maintenance in many eu countries. this will lead to further redundancies and further attacks on workers’ wages and conditions. but it will also be a serious threat to safety, as the pressure to keep profits high overshadows any concern for safety. nevertheless, the eu has been spearheading this drive like an oncoming train, disregarding all legitimate opposition. this is something that the activists of the ‘no tav’ movement in italy know about all too well. thousands upon thousands of people in the val di susa have opposed the destruction of their beautiful valley solely in the interests of profits with no benefit for the people in the area. their movement has been met with massive oppression. one year ago, two thousand policemen attacked a peaceful protest camp, injuring many people. there have been many other incidences of repression since.
mr president, i want to pay a special tribute to ms silvia ţicău and her staff, including elena podariu, together with the secretariat, especially elvira ramírez pineda, who have worked so hard behind the scenes to ensure that we put this report before plenary today. i have pleasure in voting for it. there were two problems. the first is in relation to the social rules that have been breached. according to data provided by the commission, on average 9% of the controlled vehicles are found breaching the social rules. roughly a quarter of them are found breaching the tachograph regulations in particular. secondly, on average, at any one point in time, around 45 000 vehicles are in breach of eu tachograph rules. non-respect of the minimum breaks, rest periods and the maximum driving times can lead to fatigue for drivers and cause a potential risk to road safety. heavy goods vehicles are potentially lethal weapons. finally, professional drivers and transport companies operate in a highly fragmented market and a fiercely competitive environment. what we need to do is tighten up. that is exactly what this tachograph report does today.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom an rapóirtéir, silvia ţicău, uasal a mholadh i dtús as ucht na dea-oibre a rinne sí agus mo chomhghleacaí féin go háirithe, an caestóir séamus ó huiginn, a rinne an-jab ar son mo ghrúpa. gan dabht ar bith, tá níos mó daoine ag taisteal trasna na heorpa ná riamh agus tá níos mó earraí á iompar. dá bhrí sin, tá géarghá le rialacha comónta trasna na heorpa. cabhraíonn na tacagraif leis seo. tháinig siad isteach i 1970 agus bhí orainn iad a leasú i 1985 de bharr tacagraf analógach agus anois tá na tacagraif chliste againn agus beidh siad ar na feithiclí go léir le cúnamh dé faoi 2020. ach chun iad a chur i bhfeidhm i gceart, chaithfí traenáil cheart a dhéanamh ar na hoifigigh a bheidh i gceannas ar na rialacha seo a chur i bhfeidhm agus caithfear é sin a dhéanamh gan cur leis an rómhaorlathas atá timpeall na heorpa ar fad. má éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh, cabhróidh sé go mór sa chás seo agus le sábháilteacht ar na bóithre.
mr president, it is a great pleasure to actually support this draft proposal. i think the six things that it sets out to do are sensible. it sets out, first of all, to broaden the scope of the existing regulation, which needed to be broadened. secondly, it seeks to maintain the ability for customs to have control, for the purpose of enforcement of intellectual property rights, in all situations where goods are under supervision. thirdly, it introduces procedures to have goods which have been abandoned destroyed without having to undergo formal or costly legal proceedings. it simplifies the procedure for dealing with ipr infringing goods sold on the internet and it sets out very clear rules in respect of actions by both rights-holders and owners of the goods. finally, it clarifies the position in respect of goods in transit: customs should only act if it is likely that the goods are destined for the eu market. so the new regulation is good. it provides stronger, clearer and modernised legislation which customs administration can implement as part of their role to help cope with ipr infringements on borders.
a uachtaráin, mhínigh mo chomhghleacaí séamus ó huiginn, cad atá i gceist leis na moltaí seo agus, dá bhrí sin, cuireann sé ionadh orm gur vótáil 259 feisire ina choinne cé go raibh 397 feisire ina bhfabhar. ach bíodh sin mar atá, bhí áthas orm vótáil leis na vótaí seo. when one considers that counterfeited goods, piracy, etc. are costing the european union billions and billions every year, costing us thousands and thousands of jobs and damaging the health and safety of our adults and children, it is quite clear that we need to take firm action, particularly in dealing with ipr, and at border control. it is far easier to deal with this as goods come into the european union than trying to do it within the european union on the borders of member states. for that reason, i welcome the proposals here. the sooner we can put a stop to this terrible injustice, the better for our economy and for our people.
mr president, i welcome the recognition that water is a public good, that access to water constitutes a fundamental and universal right and that there has to be a strong social dimension to water pricing. i also welcome the emphasis on water conservation in this report which, alarmingly, points out that 70% of water supplied to cities across europe is lost through leakages. indeed, in my own constituency, dublin, around 100 million litres – or 30% per day – is lost through leakages. a european-funded replacement programme throughout our older cities could be part of a stimulus package, and would create much needed employment and replace infrastructure that is over a hundred years old. as water is a fundamental right, i believe that it is important that water utilities remain in public ownership, and that income from charges levied must be ring-fenced for the upgrading of the infrastructure. moreover, in order to ensure that the vulnerable and less well-off are protected, there should be a quota for households for basic use before charges are applied. this would be in keeping with the ‘polluter pays principle’. finally, i welcome the call to raise awareness of the importance of water conservation among the general public, and i would emphasise the role of local and regional authorities in this matter.
mr president, an environmental disaster is waiting to happen in aughanish, county limerick, ireland. the rusal alumina plant refinery produces alumina powder, in a chemical process which leaves behind toxic waste. the company and the irish government have incredibly classified this as non-hazardous, despite the fact that, when a similar plant had a serious breach in hungary in 2010, it released highly toxic caustic sludge. between 20 million and 50 million tonnes of this hazardous waste sit in an area of over 250 acres on the banks of the shannon estuary in a pond which has never been properly lined. this waste has already become airborne, damaging the health of people in the region and damaging the farmland. if there is a major spillage it would see the water, air, soil and livestock of the area destroyed. ordinary farmers in the region are being forced to pay thousands of euros to install new septic tanks at their homes. yet we have the biggest septic tank in all of europe sitting there, without proper regard to the massive environmental dangers it poses.
mr president, i come from ireland and i dread turning on my radio station on a monday morning because i hear that three young people or two young people have died in single-car accidents, where they hit a tree, a wall or a river, particularly in rural and remote areas. essentially the situation is that they die in the early hours of the morning probably because of speeding, sometimes because of alcohol. in such a situation, particularly with a single-car accident, time is of the essence. the sooner the police, the medical services and fire services arrive on the scene, the sooner we have a life saved. for many of those people who are found dead on a saturday morning, a sunday morning or the early hours of a monday morning, they would have been saved had the fire services, the police services or the medical services got to them in time. this is what this ecall system is doing. it will coordinate, it will identify the location and it will get all of the emergency rescue services to the scene in time. we need it on a pan-european level. we have a europe now without borders and this certainly will save lives. i want to, in particular, compliment dieter koch who has put a lot of work into this over a ten-year period.
mr president, i, too, fully support this resolution urging the commission to draft legislation requiring car manufacturers to fit the ecall device in all new cars from 2015, and to require member states to ensure that their emergency services are able to handle the ecall system. the technology has been available for a number of years, but so far less than 1 % of cars in the eu are fitted with it, and these are normally at the higher end of the market. it is now clear that mandatory legislation is required. when a serious road accident occurs, every minute is crucial. the driver or passengers may be unconscious or unable to call emergency services due to a language barrier. they may be travelling in a country or in a terrain they are completely unfamiliar with. a car fitted with the device would be able to make an automatic emergency call and transmit data about the location and time of the crash to the nearest emergency response unit. it is estimated that, when the system is rolled out, emergency teams would make it to the scene 40% quicker in urban areas, 50% in rural areas. this could result in saving 2 500 lives across europe, approximately 25 lives in ireland. no doubt serious injury would be averted in many instances as well. i welcome the resolution.
in writing. − i support this report and the commendable work undertaken by my colleague sharon bowles. the report should prove a tangible step towards a more sustainably efficient european insurance sector, particularly through an increased emphasis on long-term investment. while i believe that these proposals make sense at the current point of negotiations on omnibus ii, i do not think that they should be brought into full legal force until eu agreement has been reached on this package. i wish the cypriot presidency every success in ensuring a smooth and timely implementation of these rules in the coming months.
in writing. − sensibly enforcing intellectual property rights (ipr) is a task which grows increasingly difficult in today’s hyper-connected global marketplace. as such, the creutzmann report correctly attempts to introduce simplification in a number of areas, notably for dealing with ipr-infringing items sold on the internet, clearer descriptions of the rights and responsibilities of both rights-holders and owners of goods, and mechanisms allowing for speedier and more cost-efficient destruction of ipr-infringing goods. it is vital that customs administrations – i.e. those men and women charged with protecting which goods enter and exit european territory – have as many clear and understandable tools as possible at their disposal, and this regulation should support this. in a time of economic difficulty, all measures which aim for simplification, increased efficiency, better value for money and reduced administrative burden for eu administrations and citizens alike are to be warmly welcomed.
in writing. − a sustainable supply of water is vital for life, the effective management of which is essential to ensuring that all ecosystems receive a sufficient quantity of good quality water in order to function properly and provide essential services. i support the concept of water as a 'public good' and that there is a cost associated with water that needs to be charged. i am, as yet, uncertain about the inclusion of the wfd into the scope of cross compliance for farmers. i voted in favour of this report which predates the commission's ‘blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources’, the eu policy response to current and future water challenges due to be published in november 2012.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus a bhfuil ann maidir leis an gcóras don ‘eghlaoch’ agus na seirbhísí éigeandála a fheabhsú. tacaím le moladh an rapóirtéara an eghlaoch a chur ar fáil i bhfoirm seirbhíse poiblí éigeadála a bheadh ar fáil saor in aisce do na tiománaithe uile san eoraip, is cuma cén cineál gluaisteáin a bheadh acu. is é mórbhuntáiste an chórais eghlaoch ná an laghdú a thiocfaidh ar bhásanna ar bhóithre agus ar dhéine na ngortuithe a bhuíochas do fhreagairt níos tapúla ó na seirbhísí éigeandála i gcás tionóiscí. is léir go bhféadfaí tuilleadh daoine a shábháil agus iarmhairtí na tionóisce a laghdú dá mbeifí in ann an t-aga phráinnfhreagartha a laghdú. chabhródh an tseirbhís eghlaoch le láithreacha tionóisce a ghlanadh níos tapúla chomh maith, agus laghdódh sé sin an baol go mbeadh timpiste bhreise ann ar an láthair chéanna. ós rud é go bhfuil mórbhuntáistí suntasacha ag baint leis an tseirbhís seo, ní mór do na ballstáit agus do na húdaráis náisiúnta a ndícheall a dhéanamh chun úsáid agus feidhmiú leathan na seirbhíse a chinntiú.
i scríbhinn. − tacaímid go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil a mholann don ae aghaidh a thabhairt ar laigí an aontais agus na buntáistí atá aige a neartú d’fhonn deiseanna infheistíochta domhanda a mhealladh agus a uasmhéadú. tacaímid go hiomlán lena bhfuil inti maidir le buntáistí don bheartas comhtháthaithe a mhéadú, aghaidh a thabhairt ar riachtanais chaipitil daonna san ae, agus an taighde agus an nuáil a spreagadh. is é an ráta iomaíoch cánach corparáide atá againn, áfach, an bhunchloch a fhágann éirinn tarraingteach don infheistíocht dhíreach choigríche agus do ghnólachtaí domhanda. chuirfeadh comhchuibhiú an ráta cánach corparáide (cccc) isteach go mór ar an ngné láidir sin de gheilleagar na héireann atá riachtanach don téarnamh agus don fhás geilleagrach. is inniúlacht náisiúnta iad cúrsaí cánachais agus ní mór d’institiúidí an ae meas a bheith acu ar sin. faoin bprótacal breise maidir leis an imní atá ar mhuintir éireann faoi chonradh liospóin, lenar tacaíodh le déanaí i bparlaimint na heorpa, is inniúlacht na mballstát iad cúrsaí cánachais. is í ár dtuairim nach gcuirfeadh an cccc le feidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair ach go gcuirfeadh sé isteach ar gheilleagair bheaga oscailte mar atá in éirinn. chuige sin, staonamar ar an tuarascáil seo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the attractiveness of investing in europe, which calls on the commission to present a strategy on how to make investment, in particular foreign direct investment, in europe more attractive. i welcome the concern expressed about high youth unemployment figures and the measures proposed throughout the report to address this. in particular, the support for a youth guarantee scheme, which would ensure that every young person in europe is offered a job, further education or work-focused training at the latest four months after leaving education or after becoming unemployed, is an important initiative to tackle youth unemployment. the calls for an increase in funding for mobility and development of knowledge, through the ‘erasmus for all’ programme, are also welcomed as a tool towards both future investment and a reduction of youth unemployment.
in writing. − this report contains references to the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) and the simultaneous coordination of tax systems throughout europe. i abstained on the final vote of this report, since taxation matters remain the competence of member states.
mr president, the european commission, its political allies in this parliament, and you in particular, commissioner de gucht, have done everything possible to try to avoid a vote taking place on acta tomorrow because you are scared that it will be defeated, given the mass opposition that exists across europe. commissioner, when you spoke at the committee on international trade two weeks ago you effectively said that, regardless of how the parliament votes tomorrow, the commission would try to push ahead, regardless of what the result is. that represents a complete contempt for democracy, but at least you have been consistent in that contempt throughout this whole process of acta. in your letter to meps, dated 26 january, you accused those protesting against acta of basing their action on – and i quote – ‘misinformation, or possibly even worse, wilful misinterpretation of the content of the agreement’. what an outrageous statement! who needs democracy and debate in society when we have the european commission to tell us what is what. if there was any misinterpretation, if there is any misinformation, then that is due to the complete lack of transparency and, due to the deliberate ambiguity contained in this agreement. unlike you, i applaud the anti-acta campaigners, the thousands who have taken to the streets, the tens of thousands who sent e-mails, the millions of people who have signed petitions. if acta is defeated tomorrow, it will be thanks to those campaigners. however, the struggle against acta and measures like acta will continue, as is clear from the commission’s attitude. we will continue to fight it, today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and to struggle for a society and an economy based on the free exchange of information, knowledge and research for the benefit of all.
in writing. – acta is seriously flawed both in terms of process and substance, and we, as parliamentarians, can only say yes or no under the current procedure. the diplomatic negotiations of acta took place under a veil of secrecy. it took leaked documents for repressive mechanisms such as luggage checks at airports or the "3-strikes and your internet is cut-off" clause to be exposed and dropped. this is a crude and misguided international enforcement deal that tries to address online copyright infringements with the same legal instruments used to combat the counterfeiting of goods. fake medicines are a matter of life and death. threats to health and safety unquestionably require the firmest and most robust measures possible. however, applying such draconian methods to the digital world comes at an unnecessary, unacceptable and counterproductive cost in terms of privacy, technological innovation and access to knowledge. to the commissioner and those colleagues who argue that we should wait for the european court's opinion, i say the following: even if the opinion deemed acta compatible with eu legislation, i find its process flawed enough and its substance politically unacceptable to warrant its rejection tomorrow. that is what i'll do.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, giovanni la via, for his extensive work on this. in the time that is available to me, can i say that i understand that some member states may wish to reduce their contributions to development aid in these very difficult times, but the 0.7% is pegged to gni. as gni goes down, it is understandable that the percentage should go down, but surely it should not be double jeopardy for the people in the poorest parts of the world. let me remind this house that 23 000 children continue to die each and every day. it used to be 36 000 children per day. look at the progress we have made. we can make more progress. so let us keep it pegged to gni. there should not be a double jeopardy. within the next generation 92% of the two billion people born will be born into the developing world. there will be massive migration from south to north if we do not meet our commitments. so i make a special plea. it is fine if we have to reduce the amounts, but the gni should not be reduced as well. congratulations to britain for striving to move ahead, and to denmark which is already at one percent. they show that it can be done, even at a time of retrenchment.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his clarifications today, which are useful. there are the legal issues that have been raised, and you have attempted to answer some of those, commissioner. then there are political and indeed – as some colleagues have said and i agree with them – policy coherence issues. on the one hand, we have the legal issues. does the commission consider that it has the legal authority to reject or geographically restrict the territorial scope of the agreement? what binding assurances can the commission give parliament that it will not accept tacitly or otherwise that the territorial competence of israeli authorities covers the palestinian territories? there are widespread reports of circumvention of current rules governing control of israeli settlement goods, so can the commission clarify whether it intends to review or reinforce this, or how this acaa should be monitored? but at the same time as the commission provides the legal clarifications, i have to ask myself, irrespective of the legal arguments, is it coherent or credible for the eu to consistently and forcefully criticise the israeli authorities? we had the motion with the oral question last month, we have the resolution that we will be voting on tomorrow, so is it coherent to pass these resolutions on the one hand, and on the other hand to enhance our trade relationship through ratifying acaa which – while i accept it is not technically an upgrading, given that it is based on the existing association agreement – in practice does allow access for israeli pharmaceuticals to one of the most lucrative markets in the world? i think that we have to take all of those issues into consideration.
mr president, the debate today is extremely important; it goes beyond the concrete and entirely justified questions which have been posed to the commission today in relation to the legal and constitutional concerns about acaa. this debate is not a technical debate, it is a political debate, and the heart of the question again – which we come back to time and again on international trade agreements and related aspects here in parliament – is whether the commitments in words to human rights by the european parliament and the eu will last when faced with commercial interests of european big business and also, in this case, when faced with a political agenda of support for israel. fundamental for me is the point that we cannot go ahead with acaa when there is a continuation of oppression of the palestinians, an expansion of israeli settlements and a continuation of the occupation. a number of meps argue in favour, because they say that eu patients would have access to a broader range of generic and branded medicines. that is extremely hypocritical in this case, given the conditions that i saw at al-shifa hospital in gaza, which does not have 150 out of 450 essential medicines. when i was there they did not have the necessary surgical gloves. we cannot go ahead with this agreement while those conditions prevail.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, can i thank commissioner barnier for his response and also the rapporteur for the report. we should acknowledge that commissioner barnier has had a major role in protecting consumers and i am very pleased to hear what he said here this evening in relation to acting on proposals. seven per cent of the adult population within the european union is a very big number. in my own country, 100 000 adults do not have bank accounts and many of them receive, for example, social welfare payments in cash via post offices; they do not have the option to have it paid into a bank account because they cannot get a bank account. this has implications in this day and age for things like shopping on the internet, for taking advantage of bargains that become available, for buying tickets, for booking events – things that we all take as the normal way of conducting our business. discussions on how to reform the banking sector have been going on now for some considerable time, but i think there needs to be more discussion and more consideration of how we get the banks to actually act in favour of individuals and in favour of the public good. looking for example at the enormity of the bank rescue in ireland where the government injected or committed eur 62 billion of public funding to the banks, i think banks should be going out of their way now to show that they have what commissioner barnier called that ‘humanist touch’ and should start to take account of people who are suffering and hurting. it would be very useful if the commissioner were at some stage to give some thought to the idea of how he might encourage the return of traditional bank managers, managers who assess people on their track record, on their character, on their knowledge of the business, on the sort of person they are. there is far too much automaticity in the banking system. we need to get much further back to the human touch.
mr president, millions of our citizens have been refused a basic payment account, which renders their daily life extremely difficult in a world dominated by and dependent on information technologies. a situation of financial exclusion equates to social exclusion. legislative action in many of our member states has proved effective at providing what has nowadays become an essential social service. people in the eu are citizens not merely consumers and, just because a person is not attractive to a bank in terms of profits, this cannot justify a denial of the means to make basic payments, especially when our exchequers and our taxpayers have done and suffered so much to save our financial institutions from the brink of disaster. a payment account has become necessary for interaction and autonomy in our societies and is a right we must grant to our citizens regardless of their credit status, employment status or residence. i hope the commission will heed the calls from this evening. this is a commendable report.
mr president, i welcome this proposal, which is largely administrative but gives european farmers a level of certainty for the next financial year. more broadly, i have a couple of points to make on the related issue of direct payments to farmers from 2014 onwards and which arose out of meetings i have held in my constituency over the last couple of weeks. first of all, on the issue of coupled support, i think we will have to look at the changes to mr capoulas santos’s report and look at possibly deleting the list. this would allow member states greater flexibility to determine the precise nature of the coupled support provided nationally. on greening, i think it will be important to increase the baseline from crop to diversification which, as it stands, is impractical, especially for small and medium farmers. also in relation to the ecological focus areas, again we need to ensure that the percentages are workable and that we have a comprehensive and precise list of what is and what is not included in these areas. finally, on the issue of convergence, i welcome mr capoulas santos’s softening of the commission proposals, and i think more will need to be done to ensure that the viability of farm businesses at national level is not threatened by policy changes at european level.
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to debate these four reports tonight because they highlight the important role of the european parliament in the forthcoming negotiations on cap reform. it will act and impact on the lives of many european citizens and as such it is important – imperative even – that the citizens’ representatives can speak and implement changes on their behalf. the lisbon treaty envisioned a scenario where a greater role would be given to this institution. however, the council and the commission are constantly seeking to circumvent this role, something which is evidenced in the phenomenon of delegated acts turning into implementing acts, and we really have to fight this encroachment on our role. i, like many other meps, have held public meetings around my constituency and sought the opinion of stakeholders on the cap post-2013 and i have met many people who have lots of worries about it. but european citizens expect their opinions to be reflected in the legislation which comes from the european institutions and, as such, the role of parliament is paramount.
mr president, mr barroso told us yesterday that the bank recapitalisation in the united kingdom was eur 82.9 billion or 4.9% of gdp, that the asset relief programme in the uk was eur 40.4 billion, and that eur 158 billion in guarantees to the banks have been given since 2008. what that indicates is that the kettle should not be calling the pot black. we are in this together, not just the eurozone and the united kingdom but the whole of the european union, and we need to help each other and to support each other and i hope that the cyprus presidency – because between now and the end of this parliament there will not be any large member state in the presidency – will work with the upcoming presidencies to work against intergovermentalism and also to try and remind ourselves that in the first half of the last century 60 million europeans killed each other. the berlin wall has come down; those ten member states that came in have changed europe. if we can get through this crisis we can add those three things together and say it was a golden era. do not lose sight of that fight against intergovernmentalism. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i certainly do agree that that is necessary, and i am sure that the speaker will also recall that the united kingdom exports more to the small country of the republic of ireland than it does to latin america and japan added together. all of which indicates that we need each other and that the kettle should not be calling the pot black.
mr president, i think the key word here is attractiveness and from my discussions with companies and business outside the european union they are finding it less and less attractive to come into the european union because of over-regulation and lack of consistency across the states in applying regulation. having said that, they said the first way to deal with a problem is to recognise it. at least we are addressing that today and there are some very good proposals in this document especially as regards utilising our banks – the eib and ecb – as well as macro-regions and the potential for more research and development and innovation. ach bíodh sin ráite. tá amhras mór orm faoi mholadh amháin agus é sin ccctb (comhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite). ní féidir le mo thír a bheith róshásta faoi sin mar cuirfidh sé míbhuntáiste eile anuas orainn a fhad agus atáimid i bponc.
a uachtaráin, amhail an feisire girling agus an feisire tannock, vótáil mé ar dtús ar son an tuarascáil seo a chur ar ceal agus nuair nár glacadh leis sin staon mé ag an vóta deiridh mar is dóigh liom go bhfuil sé ceart agus macánta fanacht go dtí go mbeadh cinneadh déanta ag an gcúirt bhreithiúnais sula ndéanfaimid cinneadh anseo. having said that, one thing i could not understand about this agreement is that it is supposed to be dealing with counterfeit goods, and as 95% of these goods are coming from china, and to a lesser extent india, and those countries are not a party to this agreement, i just wonder how effective it would have been anyway. when i asked this question i was told this was a ‘coalition of the willing’. i would say more a ‘coalition of the innocent’, and the guilty are let off scot-free. so now that we have a chance to go back to the drawing board we should first deal with china, and to a lesser extent india, in the area of counterfeit goods, which are costing us eur 250 billion and hundreds of thousands of jobs, and then move on to other matters.
mr president, what ms dodds said about northern ireland applies equally to southern ireland, and i concur with her. direct payments are crucial for the development of agriculture, and particularly for the maintenance of the family farm. any transition has to be done on a gradual basis. above all, we have to think of the long-term consequences. we are in a position where the world population is now seven billion, and likely to go to nine billion over the next 20 or 30 years. there is not going to be any more land created in that time, so we have to ensure that our policies firstly preserve family farms and – in particular – that productivity is rewarded and encouraged. if we move too quickly away from that, then we are going to be damaging european agriculture and also inhibiting our hopes of ending poverty in the world.
mr president, last week the irish taoiseach arrived home from the summit proclaiming a tremendous victory for the irish people. the tánaiste eamon gilmore said that the deal lifts the bank debt burden from irish taxpayers. they were both very long on rhetoric and very short on detail, and when you read the detail it is not very enlightening. there is one sentence dealing with ireland in the statement, which simply says that the euro group will examine the situation of the irish financial sector. it is as clear as mud. the summit has not provided any solution for the crisis. it does not deal with the unsustainable debt facing the irish people, the greek people, the portuguese, spanish, italian people, and it does not tackle the collapse of private-sector investment that has taken place across europe of eur 300 billion in the course of the crisis. at the same time, the profits are going up and the richest corporations are hoarding eur 3 trillion in liquid assets. radical socialist measures are needed to deal with the crisis. that means repudiating the debt. it means a capital tax on those uninvested profits, public investment to create jobs and, crucially, taking the key sections of the economy into democratic public ownership in order to be able to plan a way out of this crisis and redevelop the economies in a sustainable way.
in writing. − i rejected acta because i believed that the advantages of the agreement were far outweighed by potential threats to civil and individual liberties that it contained. i had problems with acta in relation to both the substantive matter and procedural issues. acta deals with both physical goods, like manchester united strips, and virtual goods, like digital music. i think that an instrument that deals with both physical goods and virtual goods is too broad to effectively tackle the issue of counterfeit. acta in its current format is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut. procedurally, the european commission dealt with acta badly. as a parliament, we could have raised these issues with the commission had we been consulted. unfortunately we weren’t given this chance. with regard to intellectual property rights, i have huge sympathy with the artists and their representative bodies, who are very concerned about online piracy. i believe that the european commission should now seek to draw up legislation related to intellectual property because i believe that for europe to remain competitive it has to protect its intellectual capital. but i think that acta was the wrong way to go about doing that.
in writing. − fine gael meps abstained on the vote of the acta agreement in view of the decision pending at the european court of justice assessing whether acta is incompatible with the eu’s fundamental rights and freedoms. we prefer to give ourselves the opportunity to consider the outcome of the court ruling before voting on the agreement.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, ní mór anois, agus moill ann maidir le buiséad an cbt a phlé agus a thabhairt chun críche faoin gcreat airgeadais ilbhliantúil (cai) agus corraithe ann maidir le leasú an cbt, go mbeadh cinnteacht éigin ann d’fheirmeoirí ó thaobh íocaíochtaí díreacha don bhliain 2013 de. toisc go dtiteann cuntas na bliana 2013 faoi bhliain airgeadais 2014 agus, mar sin, faoin cai nua bhí baol ann i gcónaí go mbeadh moill ann; fearaim fáilte, áfach, roimh a bhfuil á dhéanamh ag an gcoimisiún chun leanúnachas na n-íocaíochtaí d’fheirmeoirí a chinntiú don bhliain 2013. de réir thogra an choimisiúin, shocrófaí leibhéal laghdaithe na n-íocaíochtaí díreacha don bhliain 2013 ar an leibhéal céanna atá i bhfeidhm don mhodhnú éigeantach don bhliain 2012. tá cur síos i dtogra an choimsiúin ar uasmhéid na n-íocaíochtaí díreacha a bhfuil cead ag gach ballstát a dháileadh i 2013. den chuid is mó, tá na glanteorainneacha le tabhairt ar aghaidh ó uasteorainneacha na bliana 2013, le hathruithe ann d’éifeachtaí an chéimnithe isteach agus an mhódhnaithe dheonaigh. fearaim fáilte roimh mholtaí an rapóirtéir i dtaca le leanúint sa bhliain 2013 leis an struchtúr airgeadais atá ann faoi láthair chun a chinntiú go mbíonn leanúnachas ann i leibhéal na n-íocaíochtaí.
in writing. − i supported this report which approved the negotiating mandate for the trilogue with the council and european commission on the 2013 eu budget. the eu budget for the year 2013 is the last one of the current financial framework. for this reason, an increase in the level of payments due at the end of the programming period is expected. europe requires a budget that is sufficient for meeting the real needs of european economic recovery. however, i support those who call for the commission to budget "realistically", and ensure that the utmost be done to examine the european added value of all current eu programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals (2012-15), in response to the january 2012 european commission communication on this subject. in particular i welcome the calls on the eu and all member states to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and to give effect to its provisions through national legislation. the recent improvements in equine welfare at the smithfield market in my dublin constituency further emphasises how legislation for such provisions, and their subsequent enforcement by local authorities, can prove hugely beneficial. i look forward to further eu cooperation in this field.
in writing. − i voted for this report for the protection and welfare of animals as i believe animal welfare is a multidimensional issue, rooted in today’s society. it is also an issue which demands increased priority and financial backing, as previously requested. there is currently no eu legislation regarding pet animal welfare, something which needs to be addressed, taking into account the increased cat and dog population. through increased support for compliant farmers and stringent regulations regarding the importing of animal products we can vastly improve upon animal welfare on both a european and international level. we must reinforce the importance of the link between animal health and public health. good husbandry of animals will help to reduce the spread of diseases and antimicrobial resistance. legislation regarding animal welfare must be enforced and complied with. we need to keep improving rules on labelling in order to better inform consumers about farming methods and animal welfare. we also need to introduce equivalent welfare standards for all imported animals and products to ensure equal opportunities for eu farmers as well as comparable quality standards for eu consumers.
in writing. − i support this report on the establishment of an eu legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals. there is currently no eu legislation for the protection of pets and stray animals, yet the eu’s pet population is estimated at over one hundred million. pets and stray animals fall victim to incredible cruelty and mistreatment. the european union and member states must ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals so as more can be done to better animal welfare. there need to be increased management strategies for stray animals, including both vaccination and sterilisation along with informative and educational programmes in schools regarding the welfare of animals. we need to do more to promote responsible ownership of animals. this can be achieved through more stringent rules regarding the identification and registration of animals and through the prohibition of unlicensed kennels and shelters. we must also prohibit the killing of stray animals without medical indication. therefore, i welcome the establishment of an eu legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the 28-29 june european council meeting. i very much welcome the summit's decision to unshackle banking debt from sovereign debt. ireland has borne a disproportionate burden arising from the collapse of our banking system. the decision taken at the summit on ireland's bank debt does have the potential to help ireland emerge successfully from the troika programme next year as planned, which is not just in ireland's interests but all of europe's interests. this particular decision now needs to be followed through and fleshed out over the coming months. i also welcome the new emphasis on growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, including the extra funding for the eib, the agreement on project bonds and, very importantly, the emphasis on public investment. the eu should now consider a social investment pact to help us reconcile fiscal consolidation with the eu2020 targets and the achievement of the goal of a fairer and just society.
i scríbhinn. − tagann de thoradh an eisiata ó bhunseirbhísí baincéireachta go méadaítear ar an eisiamh agus ar an aonrú sóisialta. ní mór, mar sin, bearta láidre a chur i bhfeidhm chun a chinntiú go mbíonn rochtain ag gach éinne ar bhunseirbhísí baincéireachta. os rud é nach bhfuil cunta bainc ag 7% de mhuintir na heorpa, 30 milliún duine, agus go baineadh ceart cuntais bhainc ó 6.4m díobh, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo. tá bunseirbhísí baincéireachta riachtanach ó thaobh rochtain ar ethrádáil de agus is minic anois go mbíonn cuntas bainc ag teastáil i gcúrsaí fostaíochta, cúraim sláinte agus tithíochta. i staidéar a rinneadh in éirinn le déanaí, fuarthas amach go ndiúltaigh roinnt banc, cuntais bhainc ar dhaoine toisc ioncam an-íseal a bheith acu, cé go ndúradh go hoifigiúil gurb í easpa cáipéisí aitheantais cosúil le pas, ceadúnais tiomána nó billí fóntais a bhí mar chúis leis an gcinneadh. tacaím le moltaí an rapóirtéara maidir le reachtaíocht a chur i bhfeidhm d’fhonn a chinntiú go mbíonn an ceart ag an tomhaltóir cuntas bunúsach a oscailt agus a úsáid chun bun-idirbhearta íocaíochta a dhéanamh, ioncam a fháil, billí nó cáin a íoc, agus earraí agus seirbhísí a cheannach.
in writing. − i welcome the resolution urging the commission to prepare, by next january, draft eu legislation on the provision of an untied, low-cost, basic bank account that enables everyone to carry out everyday banking transactions. having access to a bank account is a requirement of modern living. not having one especially affects the homeless, people on low incomes or with no credit record, students and expatriate workers. in their 2009 submission to the commission’s consultation on this issue, the irish charity the society of st. vincent de paul (svp) rightly emphasised that accessing a basic account is a starting point to addressing and preventing financial exclusion. guaranteed bank access would also help save funds for the dept of social protection by facilitating the electronic payment of all state benefits. i welcome the irish government’s decision to begin testing the provision of a basic bank account in a number of locations this year, including in tallaght. eu legislation is now needed because last year’s commission recommendations on this issue have only been implemented in full in a handful of member states, and not at all in many.
mr president, i have listened to the debate so far and it is quite obvious that there is a divergence of opinion. on the one hand you have most of the people here, the more sensible people, who realise in fact that we are the custodians of the current environment and that the next generation will actually indict us unless we do something about the problem. i listened to ms de lange and she was absolutely right in relation to mr helmer from the ukip party. he is part of a growing minority who say that there is no such thing as climate change; that nothing has changed and that there is no need to take any steps in order to rectify the situation. what world does he live in? we have floods where we never had floods before. we have tornadoes where we never had tornadoes before. we have storms where we never had storms before. we have earthquakes. the ice caps are melting and at the same time mr helmer and his ukip colleagues – as always – are running from reality and are whistling past the graveyard; and the graveyard is there to see. we have a problem. ten years ago we had the 1992 earth summit. if you look at the statistics in the meantime, global emissions have risen by 48%, 300 million hectares of forests have been cleared and the population of the world has increased by 1.6 billion people. despite a reduction in poverty one in six people are malnourished. i agree with the commissioner, he has a very difficult job. there are conflicting commercial interests. countries are looking to themselves and their own selfish independent interests rather than looking at the bigger question: that is the global question. so i wish you well, commissioner. i know there has been much criticism but i think this is a step forward and i know that you have then necessary ability, the will, the commitment and the determination to ensure that you will be the commissioner that will get universal agreement in relation to how we go forward.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i fully support the oral question and i want to commend the authors for the initiative. i am strongly against the proposal relating to the practice of chartering which has emanated from the conference of parties of the cites convention. currently, as we know, the flag state has responsibility for controlling the activities of a fishing vessel, no matter where the vessel operates. this includes declaring catches, enforcing management measures and control activities. this is a long-established principle which is enshrined in both international and eu law, including the regulation to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) and the fao international plan of action to deter iuu fishing. the commissioner made reference to international law and the necessity to abide by this, but i understand that international law supports flag ships. the flag ship state has the primary responsibility for preventing, deterring and eliminating iuu fishing. the alternative is that the coastal state that charters the fishing vessel would be responsible. often coastal states charter vessels to exploit fisheries but not in a sustainable way, and of course to expand fishing activities, so many coastal states lack the will and ability to control illegal fishing. such a move by cites is difficult to comprehend and even more difficult to justify and would certainly threaten the sustainability of fish stocks, particularly on the high seas. it is extremely important for the commission to vigorously oppose the move by cites and i am aware that the chair of the committee on fisheries has issued an invitation to the commissioner to attend a meeting of the committee in the near future. while he has not responded today while in the chamber, i hope he will respond favourably and positively in order that we can have a more in-depth discussion in committee. the commission must adopt a position. there is only one position to adopt and we all know which one that is. the commissioner says that parliament will be kept fully informed. it is important that we are kept informed, but it is more important that parliament’s views, which i believe would be almost unanimous, should be taken into consideration.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don mholadh seo chomh maith agus bhí sé soiléir go raibh formhór na parlaiminte ina fhabhar: 579 i bhfabhar, 32 ina choinne agus naoinúr ag staonadh. dá bhrí sin, tá sé sin soiléir a dhóthain. i think it is important that we have as close cooperation and connection as possible between all parts of the european union and in that regard we should not forget the islands – in particular i am thinking of my own country. thankfully in energy terms we have interconnectors with our nearest neighbour, the united kingdom, and hopefully also in due course with other areas. in terms of transport, the united kingdom has a link with the continent now through eurostar, and maybe somewhere down the line there might be one connecting ireland with britain. the relationship between ireland and the united kingdom has never been better; thanks in particular to the queen of england who visited ireland last year and last week was involved in the historic handshake with martin mcguinness. i think connecting us physically would also be a step in the right direction.
mr president, the brutal israeli state policy and repeated human rights violations in the west bank and in east jerusalem are a conscious policy deisgned to undermine any prospect of real palestinian self-rule. they are also designed to stir up nationalism, to help lower the pressure from social pressures within israel and to try to avoid the development of a joint struggle of the oppressed. i would like to draw specific attention to the fate of over 2 300 jahalin bedouins, one of the poorest communities living in the west bank, who are at risk of being driven out of their homes by the israeli state. demolition orders have been issued, including against two schools, which would cut off hundreds of children from education. the alternative they face is to go to live in a site no more than 300 metres away from a landfill near the palestinian town of abu dis. these scandalous policies have to cease. they can be ended by the development of a mass struggle of the palestinians together with israeli workers and poor against the oppression, against the occupation and for a socialist alternative in the middle east.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal launching a pilot phase for project bonds to support investment in the transport, energy and ict fields through attracting and facilitating private financing of priority projects. national budgets are under considerable pressure so it is important that we look at new and innovative ways of boosting growth and creating jobs. crucially, this initiative does not make any additional demands on domestic budgets, sovereign debt or contingent liability. it does rely on re-directing €230 million from existing eu programmes to the eib, to leverage a total investment of €4.5 billion. it is better to use private finance productively rather than have it end up in speculative markets. should the pilot project prove successful, this type of financial instrument could be used more widely in the future. i welcome the fact that the parliament and the council have agreed on the re-investment of any revenues generated into the mechanism itself, on a clear role for meps in monitoring implementation, as well as a full independent evaluation of the pilot phase in 2015. i would emphasise that infrastructure projects funded under this initiative should cover the entire eu, and not just in the centre.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which outlines an infrastructure, which is of key importance to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion on the eu policy on the west bank and jerusalem in spite of the fact that this resolution does not fully represent my views. the epp, ecr and efd did not sign the joint motion for a resolution and had indicated they would vote against it. given the balance of forces in the european parliament, there was a real danger that the joint motion would fall. this would have represented an endorsement of the aggressive and unacceptable settlement policy of the israeli state. the settlement policy consciously aims to create facts on the ground that would effectively rule out the possibility of jerusalem becoming the joint capital in a two state socialist solution. unfortunately, an amendment passed that aims to blame hamas for the situation in gaza. i reject this view. the state of israel is the occupying force and its siege of gaza needs to be lifted immediately in order to end the humanitarian disaster. i reject the policy of individual terrorism by hamas that targets israeli citizens but i defend the right of the palestinian people to self defence and to resist en masse against the ongoing occupation.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on eu policy on the west bank and east jerusalem as the middle east peace process requires our urgent attention. the possibility of a two-state solution continues to be debilitated by both the closure of many palestinian institutions and the evictions and housing demolitions of many palestinians living in east jerusalem. the palestinian presence in both the west bank and east jerusalem continues to be undermined by the israeli government policies, which impact heavily on the peace process. the israeli-palestinian conflict can only be resolved through peaceful and non-violent means and any act of violence impeding this must be condemned. all member states need to play a more active, political role in the achieving of a peaceful and long lasting solution that will resolve the conflict between israelis and palestinians. we must lift the blockade of the gaza strip, so that persons and crucial humanitarian aid may pass with greater ease and we must also implement an efficient control mechanism to prevent the smuggling of arms into gaza. therefore, i welcome the resolution on eu policy on the west bank and east jerusalem.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht seo mar ní ceart cur suas le foréigean i gcoinne aon duine, go háirithe foréigean ag fir de ghnáth i gcoinne ban de bharr a gclaonadh gnéasach. cáinimid é seo anseo inniu. unfortunately, right across africa there is a kind of cultural tradition based on non-tolerance of lgbts in any form. this of course is tragic and we must certainly do all we can to end it. but even in countries such as south africa, which in 1996 became the first country in the world to bring non-discrimination based on sexual orientation into its constitution, the practice is entirely different. there are numerous examples of women in particular being violated in the most appalling way based on sexual orientation. this is not acceptable and we as the world’s biggest donor must insist that right across africa, as part of our aid to them, laws are enacted, and in particular ensure that nobody gets away with violations of this kind.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in order to maintain its grip on power the lukashenko dictatorship relies on brutal repression against anyone involved in opposition activity, critical journalism, the defence of minority rights, the defence of human rights or the genuine independent trade union activity which exists. the arrest and detention of ales bialiatski, chairman of the viasna human rights centre, is an illustration of this repression. he should be released immediately together with all prisoners detained for opposition to the regime. this parliament should also be calling for an immediate moratorium on executions and the abolition of the death penalty. i call on the international trade union movement to give its solidarity and its active support to the struggle of working people in belarus. the genuine grass-roots trade unions need to be built to defend the interests of the majority of the population in the struggle against mass privatisations and liberalisations of basic foodstuffs and to fundamentally democratise society and the economy to ensure that the wealth can be used in the interests of the majority of the population rather than a tiny political and economic elite.
i scríbhinn. – ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir as an sárobair a rinne sí. is mórábhar imní d’fheirmeoirí na heorpa é an córas sainaitheantais. is maith is eol don choimisiún go raibh fadhbanna suntasacha, a chruthaigh deacrachtaí uafásacha d’fheirmeoirí, ag baint leis an gcóras éigeantach do shainaithint leictreonach (eid) le haghaidh caorach. is iomaí feirmeoir a rinne teagmháil liom toisc tinneas, saoth, gortú nó galrú ar a gcaoirigh mar thoradh ar an teicneolaíocht sainaitheantais. mar gheall ar theicneolaíocht lochtach agus easpa réalachais agus solúbthachta ó na húdaráis tá fíneálacha á ngearradh ar fheirmeoirí agus tá an maorlathas á mhéadú gan chiall. ní foláir gur scéim roghnach a bheadh sa tsainaithint leictreonach bheithíoch agus gur faoi údaráis na mballstát a bheadh sé í a chur a bhfeidhm. is léir nach bhfuil buntáiste ar bith ag baint le scéim éigeantach. faoi scéim roghnach ní bheadh ar na feirmeoirí beaga – nach mbeadh ag baint mórán leasa as an scéim – an tsainaithint leictreonach a chur i bhfeidhm agus ní bheadh orthu dul i ngleic le hualaí neamhchothroma riaracháin agus airgeadais. faoi scéim roghnach is iad na feirmeoirí sin a bhainfeadh buntáiste suntasach láithreach as an eid, agus iadsan amháin, a bheadh á cur i bhfeidhm.
mr president, the eu and its member states often like to talk about democratic values and respect for human rights. the involvement of a broad range of european states in a practice that flagrantly breaches the most basic democratic rights reveals this to be hollow rhetoric. these states are accomplices to state kidnapping, extrajudicial incarceration and torture. all of this is documented and known to the governments involved. guantánamo bay and all of the secret centres in europe should be shut down immediately. all of the prisoners should face a fair trial or else be released. last year 20 000 us troops travelled through shannon airport in ireland and there is not much doubt that, at the very least, the airport facilitated rendition flights. i call for the use of shannon airport by the us military to be ended immediately. i also call for the immediate inspection of all military aircraft going through shannon airport and i remind eamonn gilmore and the labour party of their support for this call when they were in opposition.
mr president, the last weeks have seen an eruption of sectarian rioting and attacks in belfast. these incidents unfortunately demonstrate that the peace process and the establishment of power-sharing institutions have failed to end sectarian division on the ground. in fact, there are now more so-called peace lines dividing communities than there were before the paramilitary ceasefires. instead of eradicating division, the northern ireland assembly has actually institutionalised it. the main parties cannot eradicate the poison of sectarianism because they rely on that division to maintain their power. one thing that unites the assembly parties is their support for austerity. they are embarking on a vicious campaign of cuts to public services which are already leading to rising unemployment and poverty – conditions which precisely provide the breeding ground for the rise and growth of sectarianism. there is an urgent need for the building of a new mass working class party, based on the trade union movement and genuine community groups and young people, to unite working class people against sectarian division, against the right-wing policies of the assembly executive and for socialist change.
mr president, i welcome this report and commend the rapporteur. i believe that it is of vital importance to include a gender perspective when debating environmental issues. female workers are very much under-represented in the growing renewable sector in general and in science and technology in particular. i feel that there is a need for initiatives to encourage women to study and seek employment in these sectors. such initiatives should promote women’s entrepreneurship in the green economy. moreover, women should be equally represented in political decision-making bodies and involved in environmental policy making and the transition to the green economy in order to strengthen equality and democracy. in developing countries in particular, issues such as access to clean water and dependence on biomass for energy have differing effects on men and women. it is therefore imperative that modern green technologies be made available to developing countries and that these countries have access to the resources necessary to invest in the green economy. finally i would recommend that member states strengthen and invest in local public transport systems. these investments should be focused on sustainable transport development. they should do so in order to enhance living conditions and promote social inclusion, as well as to bring about positive effects on the environment. i commend the rapporteur.
mr president, the eu likes to claim that it is a fort for progress in relation to women’s rights. however it is eu-led austerity programmes and neoliberal policies that are disproportionately increasing hardship for women workers. these programmes are resulting in mass job losses, together with attacks on wages and conditions in the service sector, particularly in retail. a majority of the unemployed workers in the eu are now women. women are also disproportionately hit by savage budget cuts, targeting vital public services and social welfare. we have seen this in ireland with the scandalous cuts to single parent allowances, to home helps and the threatened cuts to child benefit. women workers in the service sector have been one of the most active sections of workers taking action against redundancies and attacks on their conditions. in ireland we have seen this with the recent strikes and occupations in la senza, thomas cook, ebs and laura ashley. the trade union movement must now organise in the service sector to fight against low pay and job losses, and for decent working conditions with improved maternity and paternity leave and decent public services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on enhanced intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum. the report makes a number of relevant points and observations on the failures and insufficiencies of the dublin regulation. i also support the rapporteur’s view that any relocation of refugees within the european union can only take place on the basis of respecting asylum seekers’ rights and the need for their consent. a rights-based approach and the defence of people’s rights to asylum, a life in dignity and without fear of repression must be the priority of any asylum policy. i also support the view that gender-based reasons for seeking asylum must get greater priority. however, i fundamentally disagree with the call for sufficient resources for border protection in paragraph 22 of the report. i continue to defend the position that the root causes that force people to leave their home countries need to be addressed and fought, not the refugees themselves.
in writing. − i support the ongoing efforts to recast the 2003 directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states but i abstained in the final vote on this consultative european parliament resolution due to its effective call for minimum rates of corporation tax. under the eu treaties, taxation is a matter of national competence where the principle of unanimity applies. discussion on this issue has to have regard to the needs of geographically peripheral member states whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on their capacity to attract foreign direct investment, particularly in the current very difficult economic circumstances.
in writing. − i am generally supportive of this recast as it is designed to support european business. however, i have serious reservations about attempts to include any reference to minimum tax rates. i therefore did not support the amendments in this report, which included these references. tax rates are a sovereign matter for each individual member state. the eu does not have competency to act in this area.
in writing. − the service sector accounts for almost 70% of all jobs in the eu and is predominantly female. there is a tendency to stereotype jobs which associate women’s work with the more caring jobs e.g. nursing, caring, teaching etc. these positions are often less well remunerated than traditional ‘men’s’ work. women are disproportionately represented in the public sector and therefore can suffer disproportionately from budgetary cuts in the efforts to ensure fiscal consolidation. therefore it is important to have a strong gender dimension to europe’s emerging growth and jobs strategies, including as regards esf spending. i support efforts for a european equal pay target to reduce the gender pay gap by 10% in each member state. gender pay differentials, currently at 16%, are transmitted into later generations in the form of lower pensions and higher poverty rates amongst older women. i look forward to the commission proposal, due in november, on ratification of the ilo’s 2011 domestic workers convention. this convention is also important in the context of the eu’s strategy to combat people trafficking.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála agus ba mhaith liom aird ar leith a tharraingt ar a bhfuil inti maidir le foghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil agus ról an spóirt i gcúrsaí oideachais. is léir go bhfuil gá ann tuilleadh airde a thabhairt ar an oideachas aosach sa bheartas oideachais. níl sé ceart nach bhfuil figiúirí ar bith le fáil maidir le foghlaimeoirí atá níos sine ná 64 agus atá ag leanúint de chláir a bhaineann le foghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil, go háirithe ós rud é gur suntasach an méid daoine thar an aois sin atá ag gabháil don fhoghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil cheana féin. tá daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois agus tá aois scoir níos sine i ndán do níos mó agus níos mó daoine. mar sin, ní foláir go gcuirfí oideachas, oiliúint agus áiseanna don fhorbairt phearsanta ar fáil do dhaoine, is cuma cén aois iad nó cén cumas atá iontu. thairis sin, tacaím lena bhfuil le rá ag rapóirtéir na tuarascála maidir le haitheantas, i bhfoirm spreagtha agus cúnaimh airgid, a thabhairt do ról an spóirt san oiliúint agus san oideachas.
mr president, the jailing of the three young women of pussy riot for two years in a prison colony is an absolute scandal. it graphically reveals the repressive nature of the putin regime, which will brook no opposition, but it also demonstrates the fear that the regime has not only of pussy riot, but of the mass demonstrations that have taken place against the election-rigging and also the threat of a russian winter. that is because all of the promises made to the people of russia at the time of the collapse of stalinism have been proven to be false. they were promised economic growth and the benefits of that growth have gone only to the oligarchs while working people suffer. they were promised democracy. they got only rigged elections and an absence of any real democratic rights, the right to freedom of speech, the right to protest. in her closing statement at the trial one of the members of pussy riot, yekaterina samutsevich, accurately summed up the situation: ‘compared to the judicial machine we are nobodies and we have lost. on the other hand, we have won. the whole world now sees that the criminal case against us has been fabricated.’ the system cannot conceal the repressive nature of this trial. it is nobodies like them who, with a mass movement in russia armed with a socialist programme, can overthrow the putin regime and bring about democratic and socialist change.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the regulation on trade measures is a significant piece of legislation aimed at protecting our common fish stocks. commissioner damanaki put forward the proposal in a direct response to the overfishing of mackerel by iceland and the faroe islands in the north-east atlantic. i was then appointed by the committee to oversee the legislation. from the outset i received the strongest possible support from my colleagues. as a committee we proposed broad and hard-hitting measures building on the proposal by the commission. the trialogue that followed between parliament, the presidency and the commission was a success, as all sides entered into talks with a spirit of determination to reach a compromise. the compromise proves that codecision between parliament and the council in the area of fisheries does work and can result in a better, stronger and more effective legislation. this is a positive sign ahead of the talks on the reform of the common fisheries policy, despite the unacceptable blockage that continues to exist with several long-term management plans. the agreed text will enable the union to enforce measures against countries or territories that blatantly disregard the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement. the agreement includes quantitative restrictions on fish imports from the stock of common interest and associated species into the eu from the country or territory engaged in unsustainable fishing practices. signficantly, the term ‘associated species’ is broadly defined in the regulation to cover a range of species other than mackerel, for example, and it is based on fao rules. restrictions will apply to the use of eu ports and on the sale of fishing vessels, fishing equipment and the supplies to the country or territory deemed to be overfishing. in addition, eu vessels will be prohibited under this regulation from reflagging their vessels to the country or territory engaged in unsustainable practices. the regulation also foresees that further measures may be applied under the scope of the regulation if the initial measures prove to be ineffective. parliament has now equipped the commissioner with an effective and a meaningful instrument designed to prevent unsustainable fishing practices. while the regulation may be used against any third countries, the situation in the north-east atlantic is of immediate concern to all of us. iceland has unilaterally increased its mackerel catch from 363 tonnes in 2005 to 147 000 tonnes in 2012. the faroese quota in mackerel has soared from 27 830 tonnes in 2009 to 149 000 tonnes in 2012. i am extremely disappointed by the failure of the coastal states to reach an agreement in london on 3 september and i would appreciate learning from the commissioner her plans to move the situation forward. i would like, of course subject to time, to take the opportunity to speak briefly on the common market organisation for fisheries and agriculture products and the report by struan stevenson, which is an excellent basis for a final agreement with the council. the committee adopted several important amendments to the commission proposal, including the principles of minimisation and avoidance in the first instance and the landing of discarded fish. the committee also adopted clear and understandable labelling on fisheries products. unfortunately, i do not have time to speak on the other reports. suffice to say that i congratulate the rapporteurs for their excellent work.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues for their very kind and complimentary words in relation to my report. that of course includes the commissioner and the president-in-office. i fully agree with the president-in-office when he says that there should not be a deal at any price. in other words, you could say that no deal is better than a bad deal. but i believe – and i hope – that the report will be carried here tomorrow. i believe that will strengthen the commissioner’s hand when she goes to negotiate again in october. we of course wish you well, commissioner. we will survive, the commissioners will survive and the presidency will survive, but the big losers in all of this will be the stakeholders – not just the stakeholders of the european union, but of norway, iceland and the faroes. they have the most to lose. so we must ensure that we can arrive at an agreement in october. but i would like to make one final appeal, through this house, to all sides to get together and resolve this long-running dispute. a realistic solution is in the interests of all sides, but particularly the stakeholders, the fishing sector in the member states. i am hopeful that good sense will prevail and i believe that perhaps this is the time that we should, in advance of the october meeting, ask the representatives of the fishing organisations in the coastal states to come together and perhaps give their views and map a way forward. i see that the chair of the fisheries committee is here as well as many of the shadows who are involved in this. i want to thank all of them for the role they played in the trialogue, together with the commissioner’s officials and with the presidency. i must say that, while i can be a critic at times of some of the institutions, i was more than impressed with the pragmatic attitude that they adopted at that meeting. commissioner, we have strengthened your hand. it will now be a matter for you to implement, if necessary, but i hope that it will not be necessary and that there will be a positive conclusion in october.
mr president, firstly i want to say by way of introduction that the relationship between ireland and the united kingdom is now better than ever and will hopefully continue to be so. but i must respond to mr farage’s rather patronising reference to little ireland being bullied into voting twice on the lisbon treaty. we were not bullied. it was the decision of the irish parliament to hold a referendum and of the irish people to accept it. secondly, there was a fundamental difference between lisbon i and lisbon ii. in lisbon ii each member state got a commissioner. different entirely to lisbon i. now in reference to today, i would like to compliment president barroso for his eloquent speech. he referred to the need for treaty change to put an end to the piecemeal solutions we have as of now, but because treaty change would take such a long time, how are we going to put an end to, or at least prevent, piecemeal solutions at this particular time?
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleague for giving way. would mr callanan agree with me that the real problem is just what he said? he is more interested in what the press corps say and what the markets say, than what the people need. are we to be prisoners of the commentariat or are we going to give leadership to bring europe out of the darkness that people are in?
mr president, being the victim of a crime can be a very horrendous experience, but for many reporting a crime and dealing with the authorities after the experience can be equally, and often more, traumatic. this is magnified even further if the crime happens abroad. so i very much welcome this directive, which will put in place minimum standards and protect the rights of victims of crime across the eu. victims will be entitled to linguistic assistance and, importantly, access to easily accessible and confidential support services free of charge. the particular circumstances need to be taken into consideration. their gender, race or sexual orientation need to be considered too. the directive will help victims of crime feel safer, not just in their own country but throughout the eu. importantly, this directive will help citizens of the eu gain trust in policing systems and judicial systems across the european union.
mr president, i voted in favour and strongly support this report. we need to ensure cooperation between eu states in order to establish truly sustainable fishing practices which conserve fish stocks and ensure their optimal use. we need to be able to impose sanctions on non-eu states which are responsible for measures and practices that lead to over-exploitation of stocks or which do not cooperate in good faith by taking agreed management measures. we, as a parliament – and this has been repeatedly said – need to send a strong political message to the commission. that message is that we will no longer accept or do business with countries which continue to allow unsustainable fisheries. otherwise only our fishermen will lose out. all imports of fish and fishery products of all species originating from countries allowing non-sustainable fishing practices should be banned and banned immediately.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i gcoinne na tuarascála seo. bunaíodh an cmo sna 1970í agus é mar chuspóir aige, mar dhea, cobhsaíocht a bhunú agus ioncam cóir a chinntiú d’iascairí. níor baineadh amach na spriocanna seo riamh. ina ionad sin, ní fhaca na hiascairí ach torthaí laghdaitheacha agus tionscal á thachtadh. vótáil mé chomh maith i gcoinne thuarascáil haglund a thacaíonn le cuótaí inaistrithe aonair. togra nua-liobrálach is ea é seo a mbeadh príobháidiú acmhainne nádúrtha mar thoradh air. as seo, rachaidh iascairí beaga agus meánmhéide níos faide i léig, le hollchabhlaigh ag dul i gceannas agus pobail chósta á ndíothú. éilíonn an páirtí sóisialach go gcuirfí iascairí beaga, oibrithe sa tionscal agus pobail chósta isteach i gcroílár bhainistiú thionscal na hiascaireachta. le pleanáil agus le bainistiú daonlathach cuótaí, d’fhéadfaí ioncam cóir a dheimhniú do dhaoine atá ag obair sa tionscal chomh maith le húsáid inbhuanaithe na hacmhainne ríthabhachtaí seo a chinntiú.
mr president, i would like to commend the rapporteur, struan stevenson, on producing an excellent report, after a lot of dialogue and a lot of amendments, but finally we have an agreement. i am particularly happy with the role given to the producer organisations in articles 6 to 31. i also welcome the common marketing standards in articles 32 and 34, which will lead to greater efficiencies in terms of marketing. as regards the stabilisation of the markets, the commission is finally recognising the huge price volatility in the sector. we now at last have a list of fish which can be stored by freezing, salting, drying or pasteurisation in order to be withheld and released onto the market at a later date. the minimum standards of consumer information to enable consumers to make an informed choice in article 42 and 46 are also extremely welcome. information is the key for consumers to make a choice. finally i welcome the market intelligence provisions of article 49. this is needed in order to better understand the supply chain and understand market trends.
mr president, i also voted for this report even though i am always very wary when i hear the word ‘conservation’, as we have a tendency to think of the environment without the needs of the fishing community. this report is different, however. it is clear that member states’ efforts to enhance conservation and to rebuild fish stocks have been insufficient and that there is equally little progress on the reduction of fleet capacity. the system of fishing restrictions in the 12-nautical-mile waters was working well and i think it could potentially be extended to a regime of 10 to 20 miles to more effectively achieve the objectives. our fishermen need to be better informed as to why certain restrictions might be put in place, as very often self-policing is the only realistic option; overfishing will not be addressed in a proper manner otherwise. we need to interact with racs and other relevant stakeholders for effective conservation. furthermore, a mechanism at eu level to compensate fishermen affected by economic or social repercussions as well as by ecosystem protection measures could be established. this is something i would strongly support.
mr president, i am pleased that this motion for a resolution was adopted by the house. it is important that we have a coherent and clear strategy going forward so that fishermen can plan with better certainty for the investment that they put in. the eu’s aquaculture sector, if properly managed on the basis of global sustainability, could, as the motion says, make a greater contribution to the needs of european society in terms of food security and quality, employment, environmental protection and the maintenance of dynamic and varied fishing and coastal communities. finally, as regards ireland, i am particularly pleased that the resolution calls on the commission to investigate the reduction in fish stocks owing to natural predators such as sea lions, seals and cormorants, and to draw up and implement management plans to regulate these populations in cooperation with the affected and relevant member states.
mr president, banking activities of a systemic nature with an impact beyond borders are a stark example of why we need the eu, its institutions and its regulations. it is also evident that the state-led interventions to stave off self-inflicted disaster on the part of our banking sector had extremely serious consequences on many levels beyond those directly stemming from the financial crisis itself. our citizens have lost incomes, social entitlements and public services. the whole narrative about the crisis has been turned on its head, as public debt has skyrocketed and our exchequer has pumped unprecedented amounts of money to save the financial sector. we thus have many good reasons to welcome any solutions to enhance our pan-european supervisory capacities and to break the link between the sovereign exchequers and banking sector losses. however, for all its urgency, the european parliament must not accept any solution at any cost.
mr president, there is a word for this proposal to take away duty-free quota-free access to eu markets for a group of countries in the african, caribbean and pacific region. it is called blackmail. according to the ngo comhlamh the loss of dfqf market access could effectively close the european market for some sectors and will be disastrous for the economies of the countries concerned. for namibia, for example, the duties levied on beef exports alone would amount to almost eur 60 million, around 30 % of their exports. i share the position of the rapporteur when he suggests that the main reason behind the commission’s proposal is to increase pressure on these states to sign up to economic partnership agreements. opposition to epas is growing in the region among trade unions, civil society organisations and now the commission has responded by attempting to bully these countries into responding to these agreements which are not in the interests of working people and small farmers in their country. but that is why i do not share the rapporteur’s opinion that we should simply give them more time. the commission’s proposal must be rejected.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar tábhachtach agus suimiúil seo. ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don rapóirtéir as ucht na dea-oibre a rinne sí. i think one of the things that we have not highlighted enough in terms of the common agriculture policy and farming is the fact that there has been a gradual improvement in quality in every respect during the lifetime of the cap. the environment has improved, water quality has improved, biodiversity continues to improve and, of course, the quality of the food produced is constantly improving. we have, without any doubt, a guarantee that food can be traced from farm to fork, but sometimes the primary producers have not benefitted from this, and these proposals should help to ensure that happens, particularly if we streamline the bureaucracy and ensure that the solutions are simple ones. the eu logos will be a big help, and i think consumers will become familiar with them more quickly than we expect.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm cuidiú le mo chara, an rapóirtéir, alain cadec, maidir leis an tuarascáil seo. tá sé tar éis an-chuid oibre go deo a dhéanamh ón tús maidir le straitéis a bhunú agus a chur ar bun do réigiún an atlantaigh i gcoitinne. tá ceann againn cheana féin don mhuir bhailt agus don danóib agus, mar a dúirt sé, tá seansanna iontacha againn a lán a dhéanamh don réigiún seo, go háirithe do na tionscail atá bunaithe ar an bhfarraige, spórt farraige, jabanna a chruthú agus go háirithe do na réigiúin atá in aice leis an bhfarraige a chur chun cinn. tá áthas orm go bhfuil tús maith déanta againn.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith, tá moladh mór ag dul don aontas eorpach as ucht an chabhair atá acu le fada an lá anois do na tíortha is boichte sa domhan. ach athraíonn an saol agus athraíonn tíortha, agus buíochas le dia, tá cuid de na tíortha sin ag éiri saibhir, cuid díobh níos saibhre ná tiortha san eoraip. dá bhrí sin, is ceart agus is cóir go ndéanfaimís athbhreithniú ar an gcabhair forbartha a thugaimid dóibh. bíodh sin mar atá, vótáil mé leis an gcoiste agus i gcoinne mo ghrúpa féin maidir le halt 2(4). mar is dóigh liom gur cheart breis ama a thabhairt do chuid de na tíortha san act chun an socrú a luaitear a shroichint. taobh amuigh de sin, is dóigh liom go bhfuil jab maith déanta againn.
mr president, people across the world are watching the situation in syria with horror and empathy for the plight of the syrian people. what began as a popular uprising against assad has descended into a civil war with religious, ethnic and sectarian characteristics. unfortunately, it is increasingly the arena for a regional and international proxy war. on the one side is the brutal assad regime, backed up by iran and russia. on the other side is an array of anti-assad, often ethnically-based and divided opposition forces. many of these are bankrolled and aided militarily by some of the most reactionary arab states and turkey, together with western imperialism. clearly they do not provide a way forward for the syrian people. any military intervention would worsen the situation. it would not be taken in the interests of the syrian people or peace and it could accelerate the process of balkanisation and potentially inflame the whole region. building a united working class movement to overthrow the assad regime is a herculean task, but it is the only way to successfully win democratic rights and fundamental social and economic change.
mr president, i am actually very pleased that we have made progress in this regard. these proposals first emerged back in june and i think we are making good and satisfactory progress which will help us to get out of this recession and, more importantly, put proper controls in all banks in the future. i come from a small country, and from my experience i would never again trust banks in my country if it was left up to the authorities within the state to supervise them totally. central authority at european level is far better; it is more objective and, certainly, the ‘palsy-walsy’ situation which we saw in ireland was partly responsible for leading us into the terrible position we are now in. this is to be welcomed, and the sooner it happens – and the more banks that are under the supervisory control of the ecb – the better. finally i just want to thank president draghi for the courage, the vision and the decisions he has taken since he came into office. he has been a breath of fresh air.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the resolution calling for a european strategy covering europe’s atlantic regions, including the coastal regions of the irish sea from 2014, as is already being put in place for the danube and the baltic regions. the aim of such a macro-regional strategy and a related action plan is to better coordinate and to create synergies between all eu policies that affect this area, particularly those relating to marine energy, maritime industries, tourism, employment opportunities for young people in the maritime sector, and the sustainable exploitation of maritime resources. the aim should be to provide a new impetus to coastal areas and their hinterlands. i would point out that dublin port welcomed over 85 cruise ships in 2011, worth an estimated eur 50 million to the city’s economy, as well as hosting the ‘tall ships’ event this august. coming from a member state that does not have a direct land link to mainland europe, i particularly welcome the call on the eu to invest in ‘motorways of the seas’. finally, i agree with the call on ireland’s eu presidency to prioritise european council endorsement of this strategy during its forthcoming term of office.
in writing. − there is a moral imperative as well as an eu treaty obligation on europe to agree fair and development-friendly economic partnership agreements (epas) with its african, caribbean and pacific (acp) partners. europe must take account of the different needs and levels of development in acp countries and regions. it should not rush its partners into signing unsatisfactory epas before all contentious issues are resolved. the acp countries affected by the commission’s proposal to abolish, from 2014, duty-free and quota-free access to eu markets need a realistic timeframe to agree and ratify fair epas. the abolition of such access from 2014 would be detrimental for these countries, particularly for those that would not benefit under the ‘everything but arms’ market access arrangements. i therefore support a two-year extension, i.e. from 2014 to 2016, during which these acp countries should continue to benefit from unlimited preferential access to eu markets. this extension should provide a realistic timeframe to work towards development-friendly epas that are fair to both acp and non-acp countries alike.
i scríbhinn. − táirgíonn feirmeoirí na heorpa réimse bia atá ar ardchaighdeán agus a tháirgtear go hinbhuanaithe ó thaobh an chomhshaoil agus an phobail tuaithe de. is a bhuíochas le héagsúlacht réigiúnach, modhanna traidisiúnta tairgíochta, béim ar leith ar shábháilteacht, agus dálaí comhshaoil arda go bhfuil clú, meas agus cáil ar ardchaighdeán bia na heorpa. níl mórán cur amach ag táirgeoirí ar na scéimeanna cáilíochta atá ann – cosúil leis an scéim um ainmniú cosanta tionscnaimh, do tháirgí ó cheantair áirithe a tháirgtear le modhanna áitiúla; an scéim um thásc geografach faoi chosaint, d’earraí a bhfuil ceangal láidir acu le dúiche ar leith; agus an scéim um shainearraí traidisiúnta faoi ráthaíocht, lena gcuirtear béim ar charachtar traidisiúnta an bhia-ábhair – agus is próiseas fadálach casta atá i gceist leo. aontaím leis an rapóirtéir i dtaca le tús áite sa phacáiste um cháilíocht a thabhairt do na scéimeanna cáilíochta a shimpliú agus a chur chun cinn. tá méid beag táirgí ag éirinn atá aitheanta faoi na scéimeanna sin, mar shampla uain sléibhe chonamara, putóg donn thigh molaige agus bradán chliara, ach ní mór, ar mhaithe le forbairt earnáil an bhia-ábhair, táirgeoirí a chur ar an eolas agus a spreagadh chun leas a bhaint as na deiseanna uile atá ann do tháirgí ard-chaighdeáin éireannacha.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, toisc a bhfuil ann maidir leis an dea-thionchar sóisialta uilechuimistheach, cosúil le lánpháirteachas sa phobal a bhaint amach dóibh siúd atá leochaileach nó ar imeall na sochaí, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tráthúla tábhachtaí seo. is riachtanach agus tráthúil i gcúinsí deacra eacnamaíocha an lae inniu iad na hiarrachtaí atá ar bun chun earnáil eorpach a chruthú don infheistíocht i ngníomhachtaí neamhbhrabúis a mbíonn sé mar aidhm acu spriocanna áirithe sóisialta a bhaint amach. is gnólachtaí sóisialta iad 10% de ghnólachtaí eorpacha, agus 11 milliún duine fostaithe acu. gnóthais a bhfuil sé de phríomhchuspóir acu tionchar sóisialta a bhaint amach seachas brabús a dhéanamh atá i ngnólachtaí sóisialta. tá fíoraidhm shóisialta ag na gnóthais seo ach toisc go bhfuil siad ag brath, don chuid is mó, ar mhaoiniú ó dheontais is minic nach bhfuil todhchaí cinnte acu. chabhródh na cistí eorpacha um fhiontraíocht shóisialta le gnóthlachtaí sóisialta leanúint leis an dea-obair atá ar bun acu. aontaím le dearcadh an rapórtaera maidir le bearta coimirce agus trédhearcachta a chur i bhfeidhm do phas eorpach na gcistí eorpach um fhiontraíocht shóisialta d’fhonn a chinntiú go n-éiríonn leis an straitéis eorpach um ghnóthlachtaí sóisialta i mbealach a bhíonn in oiriúint do na ballstáit.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, there has been a concerted attempt in the international media to confuse this issue and to suggest that what is at question here is a complicated dispute between trade unions. there is nothing complicated here whatsoever. workers were engaged in a justified strike for higher wages and for better working conditions. they were mown down by the police, some of them shot in the back while running away, with the police acting as private security guards for the mines. the evidence suggests that this massacre was premeditated. the attempt to charge the miners’ colleagues with their murder, which has thankfully been dropped, indicates how far to the right the government of the african national congress has been driven under jacob zuma. the betrayal of those who made the revolution against apartheid is personified by cyril ramaphosa. this former leading member of the num, still a leading member of the anc, sits on lonmin’s board and is a major shareholder. earlier this year he bid zar 19.5 million for a prize buffalo, whereas the average south african earns around zar 26 000 per year. while a tiny elite have enriched themselves, grinding poverty and exploitation continue for the mass of black south africans. next week will see the eu-south africa summit in brussels, attended by president zuma. i will be joining a solidarity action to show the support of the left and the workers’ movement in europe with the south african miners.
mr president, as has been said, this is an appalling tragedy – 34 killed and ten prior to that, including police officers – but i think it is a symptom of how difficult it is to make the transition from a culture of violence to a democratic situation. for that reason, we probably have to look at it in the light of what we have seen in other countries. nevertheless, obviously all human life is sacred; any death is terrible, and murder in particular has to be condemned. i think there are three things we can probably do at european union level. at a higher level, we could help the government to make sure that the growing wealth of south africa is distributed fairly. secondly, we could put pressure on the business community, in particular, to ensure that the companies involved carry out their social responsibilities. also, the trade union leadership internationally could help rival trade unions to conduct their businesses according to international trade union norms.
mr president, i would like to thank charles goerens and the commissioner for their presentations. there are three brief points i want to make. the first is that we need to ensure that there is a favourable environment in which economies in developing countries can grow. this means getting public expenditure in order, making sure it is efficient, and creating a healthy private sector as well as removing excessive burdens on smes – small and medium-sized enterprises. we cannot do that on our own, but we can encourage that and we can talk about that and we can get involved with other politicians and try to get that on their agenda. in addition, we need to protect and further develop property rights in order to also serve that agenda. that is what we will give people: an ownership, and a sense of the future. secondly, we really do need to address the issue of policy coherence. the commission itself pointed out that there could be up to eur 6 billion per year saved if there was greater coherence in our development policy. there needs to be some way for this parliament to speak with national parliaments, and i urge the commissioner to use his influence to help us bring that about. we are trying to do that through the committee on development so we can bypass reluctant ministers in the council of ministers who want to keep all this power to themselves and are exacerbating the situation. thirdly, and very briefly, the commissioner attended a launch on gendercide. i am the rapporteur on gendercide. there are up to 200 million women missing in the world because of gender-based abortion and infanticide. we can change that. we can challenge that. we can bring about a difference that makes it clear you do not need to favour men over women for economic reasons. we have got to make that an issue.
mr president, i am also speaking on behalf of michael cashman, who is the shadow rapporteur for the s&d group and who has been delayed. first of all, i want to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report and also to thank the commission for its engagement in the compilation of the report. we believe that this report has actually achieved a balanced and comprehensive approach to development. we very much welcome the stronger wording on a fairer distribution of wealth, and particularly welcome the emphasis on sustainable and inclusive growth for all. in relation to differentiation, we do welcome the strong wording on political dialogue with emerging countries on the eradication of poverty through their own internal solidarity, together with appropriate funding from our own side. however, we cannot abruptly stop funding, especially for some of the so-called middle income countries, and particularly those in the caribbean and the pacific. i believe that we must have a roadmap or an exit strategy, particularly in relation to smaller countries. those countries can be more vulnerable, and that vulnerability needs to be taken into consideration when considering funding for middle income countries.
mr president, the european union can be justifiably proud of its contribution to development aid for many years now. i suppose this was recognised in the awarding of the nobel peace prize, not just for development aid outside the european union but obviously, also, for peace within the european union. while some cynics ridiculed the award, most of us can be very proud of what has been achieved. it is an encouragement for us to continue doing what we can, both internally in trying to create and keep peace, and abroad in terms of development aid – and particularly as regards helping countries towards peace and sustainability through the development of their economies. that is a very important point. finally, the point made by my colleague, mr fisas ayxela is important, which is that gdp should not be the only indicator for assessing the wealth of countries and where best we can invest.
mr president, last june the european council agreed to break the link between bank and sovereign debt. within weeks, finnish, dutch and german finance ministers said ‘no’. last week’s summit reaffirmed the june agreement, but within hours chancellor merkel announced it would not apply retrospectively. there was total shock and utter disbelief in ireland. three years ago four million irish citizens were overnight burdened down with socialised bank debt – the biggest bail-out in history. yes, irish banks were saved but so were french, german and british banks, and at the insistence of the esm. the esm which we voted for – the only eu citizens to do so – has been dangled in front of our noses only to be cruelly whipped away when it seemed as if it might be of some use to us. chancellor merkel said last night that ireland was a unique case, and so it is, but legacy debt, bank debt, must be dealt with in a european context. we want to succeed, but if the tools we need and the solidarity we have earned are not available to us, then we need to reappraise, because to play our part in helping to save the euro and then see our own economy and social solidarity destroyed as a consequence is simply not an option.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm go bhfuilimid ag díriú ar fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide anois agus molaim go háirithe mo chomhghleacaí an tuasal rübig as ucht na pointí a rinne sé agus má éiríonn linn iad a chur i bhfeidhm beimid ar mhuin na muice. many of the points are totally relevant. i would like to highlight one or two of them. firstly, mr rübig mentioned the importance of education, and this is something we have neglected. i have often gone into schools and asked students what they would like to do when they have finished school. i have yet to come across a student who said that he or she would like to be an entrepreneur or to own their own business. mr rübig is right that we need to start at kindergarten and create that interest and culture. that certainly would make a difference. his point about red tape is also absolutely vital. regarding the sme test, particularly in terms of legislation, we have to adopt the policy of thinking small first. finally, the online potential for smes is enormous, and we have to try to create that and encourage it.
madam president, i think this morning’s debate could be summarised as both an appeal and a challenge to the european council. firstly, an appeal to get the mff sorted by the end of the year and, secondly, a challenge. mr böge, the rapporteur, put this well when he said that, if they want reductions, they had better justify them and tell us where they want them. is it cap? is it cohesion funding? is it horizon 2020? and on what basis? our funding here in europe is always justified on the basis of adding value. if they can show that it does not add value, then we have no argument, but i think they will find that very difficult to do. the second point i want to make is that the second part of our discussion this morning is on own resources. i would like to compliment the countries who have introduced the ftt on their enhanced cooperation. hopefully it will prove successful, so that all countries will join in eventually. that certainly will reduce the need for argument and debate in the future.
madam president, i believe that increasingly the european parliament must be the european parliament, not a collection of parliaments of member states. that is why this interim report – and i commend my colleagues böge and kalfin – actually reflects a hugely european dimension to the budget. for too long we have had debates about those who pay and those who benefit. this is not the way we should talk in terms of a european union budget. yes, we have to acknowledge difficulties in member states, but we must insist that the budget of the european union is for european citizens, for growth and for jobs. the chairman of the agriculture committee has reflected very well the view of that committee, but can i also stress to colleagues that we are asking for this money to facilitate more farmers in the european union. we have heard the arguments of colleagues from the new member states, who rightly and justifiably feel that they are badly treated because of the differences in payments, so we must acknowledge that this report is a european report. let us keep up that good work.
mr president, the eu’s multiannual budget must be fit for purpose. without a proper budget we cannot deliver on agreed aims and policies, in particular those set out in the eu 2020 strategy. indeed, the budget is one of the most effective instruments we have to help create growth and jobs across europe. those who argue that the eu budget should be cut or frozen must spell out which eu policies they would take out. i firmly believe that 25% of the cohesion funds should be allocated to the european social fund. this could help co-fund initiatives to tackle the growing problem of youth unemployment, such as the youth guarantee. in that context i welcome the irish government’s commitment to prioritising the youth guarantee scheme during ireland’s presidency. youth unemployment is currently running at 30% in ireland. finally, i do believe that the eu needs to tackle the issue of own resources, and i would like to see agreement on a financial transaction tax.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht anseo ar maidin agus bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt maidir leis an vóta anseo inniu. gan dabht ar bith, tá an creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil an-tábhachtach agus mar a dúradh beidh sé an-tábhachtach do shocrú éigin a bhaint amach ag cruinniú na comhairle i mí na samhna. ach mar a dúirt an tuasal van rompuy – chun é sin a bhaint amach beidh géarghá le díograis pholaitiúil agus comhoibriú óna ballstáit go léir agus go háirithe ó na príomh-airí go léir. tá súil agam gur mar sin a bheidh. an dara pointe atá agam ná gur thug tú féin ceannaireacht faoin suíochán aonair a uachtaráin. vótáil mé ar son an tsuíocháin aonair chomh maith mar ní dóigh liom gur cheart dul ar aghaidh mar atáimid de bharr dé-ocsaíd charbóin, costais airgid, deacrachtaí taisteal anseo agus go háirithe de bharr costas – eur 180 milliún. ní féidir cur suas leis sin a thuilleadh.
in writing. − the draft budget of the european union for 2013 represents a realistic budget to fund the european union and to deal sufficiently with the financial crisis.
in writing. − i supported the final text of this report on the council’s position on the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 which outlines the european parliament’s decision to restore the commission’s draft budget and increase the resources for growth and job creation policies. i voted in favour of paragraphs 86, 87, 88, 89 and 90 which all refer to the savings that can be made in the eu budget if the european parliament had a single seat and supported paragraph 91 which suggests the agreement between the luxembourg authorities and european parliament on the number of staff to be present in luxembourg should be revised. i abstained on amendment 3 which refers to nuclear fission.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework will outline the expenditure of the european union for a seven-year period from 2014 to 2020. i voted in favour of the final text of this interim report on the mff outlining the european parliament’s position on the negotiations, which opposes the freezing of the mff ceilings and favours an adequate increase in the eu budget in order to meet the challenges facing europe in the future. i supported paragraph 50 which underlines the significant savings that could be made if the european parliament were to have a single seat.
in writing. − this report proposes the creation of a new eu vat own resource system which would reduce the administrative burden on the member states with the overall aim of financing the eu budget entirely from own resources. the reform of own resources plays a pivotal role in the mff negotiations as the european parliament has made it clear that it will not give its consent to the next mff regulation without first achieving an agreement on the reform of the own resource system. i voted in favour of this report.
blue-card question. – i would just like to ask the speaker this: the words of support for the palestinian people and the words of opposition to the oppression of the palestinians, what good are they if we are just going to allow this agreement to go through? how can it seriously be described as a technical agreement? it was a commission report in 2009 that said that the acaa’s entry into force would mark the first step in israel’s integration into the eu single market. the single market is not a technical issue, it is a political issue. if israel’s entry into the single market is a political endorsement of its policies, how can anyone who opposes the oppression of the palestinians allow it to happen?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, two days ago the israeli army engaged in yet another act of piracy in international waters. this time by attacking a ship, the mv estelle, carrying thirty activists from europe, including many european mps, hijacking their ship, tasering and beating up to 14 of these activists, and now 14 people are still in prison. why did this wonderful european-like, model democracy country that mr zahradil would have us believe is the state of israel, do this? it was because these people were simply trying to bring humanitarian aid to the people of gaza, thereby breaking the illegal blockade imposed on the almost two million people in gaza, who are forced to live in what is in effect an open air prison camp. i have been on a similar ship; i have been attacked by the israeli military; i have spent a week in israeli prisons in inhumane conditions, and i have been to gaza and seen the reality of the conditions that are imposed on the people of gaza by the choices made by the right-wing israeli government. i have seen the hospitals that do not have even basic medicines. i have seen the mass poverty – up to 80 % of people rely on humanitarian aid to survive – and now the european commission and the right wing in this parliament would like us to pat israel on the back, to congratulate it, to welcome it into the single market. let us drop the pretence that this is a technical agreement: that is absolute rubbish. it is completely disingenuous to suggest that. entry into the single market is not a technical question. let us also drop the pretence that it is anything to do with access to pharmaceutical products: what about the right of the people in gaza to access pharmaceutical products? if this parliament agrees to give consent, it will be a continuation of a two-faced eu policy which on the one hand speaks about the rights of the palestinians, gives out about the oppression of the palestinians and verbally gives support to a palestinian state, but in reality backs up the actions of israel and the oppression of the israeli state against the palestinians. regardless of what declaration is passed – and we are in favour of the strongest possible declaration excluding israeli settlements – we will be voting against consent. consent will be interpreted by the netanyahu government as an endorsement of the oppression of the palestinians. it will embolden them to continue with forcing palestinians out of east jerusalem and demolishing their homes, and to continue with the inhumane blockade of gaza. there should be no consent while this oppression persists. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, unfortunately the speaker is absolutely correct: no aid got through to gaza because the israeli army intercepted and hijacked the ship and took it to ashdod, as they did with our ship. my understanding is that there were medicines on board that ship, which hopefully will be delivered to the people in gaza. am i aware of the qassam rockets? yes. am i aware of the fact that ordinary israeli working people, small farmers and others suffer from attacks from a small section of right-wing islamic fundamentalists? yes, i am on record as repeatedly opposing and condemning those attacks, but i do not think such attacks justify putting two million people in an open-air prison. that is a war crime. an entire people are being punishing because of the actions of a section of right-wing islamic fundamentalists. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – again mr tannock seems to have confused the issue, as the right wing in this parliament persists in doing. the issue before us today is the entry of israel, de facto, into the single market. it is an endorsement of the oppression that the israeli state metes out to the palestinian people. that is the issue, and that is why we should refuse to agree to it. israel is not a properly-functioning democracy – you ask the arabs who live within israel if it is a properly-functioning democracy. i fundamentally disagree with hamas. hamas won an election, and then us imperialism and eu imperialism were not happy with that result and consented to the imposition of a horrific blockade from which the people in gaza suffer.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for his considered, reasonable and very balanced approach to this report. i would support the view that he puts forward. i believe that support for acaa at this point in time runs contrary to all recent eu policy statements, including the conclusions by the european council of 14 may, recent statements by the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton, and, indeed, resolutions by this parliament. all of these have been strong in their admonishment of israeli policies in relation to settlements, the gaza blockade and the ensuing humanitarian crisis in the region, the evictions of palestinians from their lands, the demolition of homes and vital infrastructure, the restrictions on freedom of movement, the isolation of east jerusalem and the lack of progress on the peace process. the eu has expressed the view time and time again that the actions by the israelis threaten to make the two-state solution impossible. if we are to achieve a lasting solution, there must be consequences for israel for the flagrant breaches of international law. while i accept that approval for acaa is not technically an upgrading, given that it is based on an existing association agreement, in practice it does allow access for israeli pharmaceuticals to one of the most lucrative markets in the world. enhancing the eu’s partnership with israel at this time serves only to undermine our own eu’s firm condemnation of israeli policy. our words must be followed up with actions if they are to have any real meaning or effect. i call on members to act for peace and a lasting solution and to reject this agreement at this point in time.
madam president, the concept of eu citizenship became a reality 20 years ago with the adoption of the maastricht treaty, yet public awareness of eu citizenship is still very low. the 2010 eurobarometer survey showed that only 43 % of respondents were actually familiar with the term ‘citizen of the european union’, and even fewer knew what it meant – although the irish figure at that stage was 58 %. the purpose of the european year of citizens must be to raise awareness about the rights and responsibilities of eu citizens, the role citizens play in exercising the right to free movement and the importance of civic and democratic participation, including participation in european and local elections. no doubt many of the planned initiatives for next year will be carried out through programmes such as the lifelong learning programme in our schools and institutions, and this will pave the way for a more concerted longer-term effort to raise awareness about eu citizenship. i am concerned about the reduction in the budget from a proposed 5 million to just 1 million, but i also want to welcome the fact that the european year of the citizen coincides with the start of the irish presidency, and i know that the irish government is committed to holding events to promote the european year throughout its presidency.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus go háirithe fáiltím roimh bhliain na saoránach – an bhliain seo chugainn. is minic a chloisimid gur cheart dúinn a bheith níos cóngaraí do na saoránaigh agus tugann an bhliain seo chugainn an seans dúinn é sin a dhéanamh agus rud amháin a mholfainn ná gur cheart dúinn seans níos mó a thabhairt do shaoránaigh teacht go dtí an pharlaimint anseo in strasbourg nó sa bhruiséil. tá sé feicthe agamsa nuair a thagann daoine fiú amháin nuair a bhíonn tuairim dhiúltach acu faoin bparlaimint nó fiú faoi na hinstitiúidí go bhfágann siad le tuairim éagsúil. bíonn tuairim agus meon dearfach acu tar éis teacht agus feiscint céard tá ar siúl anseo agus ba chóir dúinn an seans sin a thógáil an bhliain seo chugainn agus níos mó daoine a thabhairt go dtí an pharlaimint. mar a dúirt mo chomhghleacaí, emer costello, is ag éirinn a bheidh uachtaránacht na comhairle an bhliain seo chugainn, ag déanamh gach díchill chun bliain na saoránach a chur chun cinn chomh maith.
madam president, i very much welcome the bach report on improving passenger rights in the eu and ask the commission to address the various recommendations as soon as possible. a survey carried out by the european consumer centre in dublin last year indicated that less than ten percent of irish air passengers have a complete grasp of their rights under eu law. but of specific concern to irish passengers is the proposed ryanair takeover of aer lingus which, if it is allowed to proceed, would have negative implications for the rights of those passengers travelling to and from ireland. a ryanair takeover would reduce actual and potential competition on a large number of air routes from dublin, thereby depriving irish passengers of any real choice and pushing up fares. moreover, ryanair has a history of aggressively disputing the rights of air passengers. i would point out that ryanair actually charges passengers a levy of eur 2 for complying with its obligations set down in the air passenger rights regulation. for these and other reasons, i would urge the commission to reject the ryanair bid for aer lingus in the interests of passenger rights.
i scríbhinn. − is buncheart eorpach í an tsaoirse ghluaiseachta agus ní mór don choimisiún eorpach beart pras láidir a ghlacadh d’fhonn cearta paisinéirí a áirithiú. ní foláir, mar atá molta ag an rapóirtéir, go ngearrfadh an coimisiún pionós ar mhaithe le trédhearcacht iomlán phraghais a bhaint amach agus chun deireadh a chur le cleachtais neamhchothroma trádála, cosúil le costais neamhroghnacha a ghearradh nó srianta neamhréasúnta ar bhagáiste láimhe. aontaím go mba cheart don choimisiún sainmhíniú ceart soiléir a thabhairt ar na ‘imthosca urghnácha’ is féidir cur isteach ar sheirbhísí agus gan na haerlínte a bheith freagrach. is iomaí go ndéantar sárú ar chearta paisinéirí toisc aerlínte ag baint mí-úsáide as ‘imthosca urghnácha’ chun a dhualgais i dtaca le cearta paisinéirí a sheachaint. is léir nach bhfuil na dlíthe reatha á gcur i bhfeidhm i gceart agus míchinnteacht do phaisinéirí a bhíonn mar thoradh air sin. níl paisinéirí ar an eolas maidir leis na cearta atá acu agus ní mó ná sásta atá siad faoin am agus costas a bhíonn i gceist chun a gcearta a bhaint amach.
in writing. − i welcome the ep’s approval of the proposal to allocate eur 2.7 million to help over 400 ex-talk talk workers made redundant in 2011 to retrain, return to education or establish their own businesses. the talk talk application is possibly the last egaf application to come from ireland, at least until the end of 2013, given last year’s decision by a blocking minority of member states to veto the extension of the egaf ‘crisis derogations’ until the end of 2013. the egaf can help workers who have been made redundant to stay in the labour market and must continue after 2013 as an instrument available to all workers. in its 23 october resolution on the 2014-20 mff, the ep rightly placed considerable emphasis on continuing the egaf after 2013. i do welcome the recent cyprus presidency proposals to continue the egaf after 2013 though i am concerned that it is proposing to cap spending at eur 245 million per annum, down from the commission’s proposed eur 429 million per annum. the council must remember that the ep’s consent is required for the 2014-20 mff and ensuring an effective egaf is a key priority for the irish labour meps.
in writing. − i welcome the approval of 2.7 million in egf aid for workers made redundant at the talk talk facility in waterford, ireland, in 2011. the closure of talk talk was a severe blow to the region, particularly in light of the fact that the average age of the laid-off workers was 26. i have been highlighting the eu youth unemployment crisis for many months, indeed commissioner šefčovič said in plenary yesterday that youth unemployment is a crisis within a crisis, and something we cannot afford as a society. this funding can make a real difference to the prospects and employability of these young people, who through no fault of their own found themselves without work last year. i for one would like to see the irish government taking a decisive, proactive role in administering this egf funding so that these young people will elect to stay, retrain, upskill, or start businesses in ireland, rather than emigrate as so many of their friends and relatives have done.
in writing. − i welcome and am very pleased that there was such an overwhelming vote in favour of the report. i wish to commend irish minister of state at the dept of education and skills, ciaran cannon td, as well as paudie coffey td for the active engagement with workers from the outset of the application. hopefully the funding will aid the workers to retrain and upskill so they can re-enter the jobs market as soon as possible. i hope that the implementation of this application will be far more successful than previous ones in ireland.
in writing. − i am pleased that meps have approved egf funding for astrazeneca sweden. there were 987 redundancies following the closures of the company’s research and development sites in the municipalities of lund and umeå, and limiting operations in mölndal and södertälje. 700 of these workers – those who are expected to have the greatest difficulty gaining new employment – will be targeted for support from the egf. the package aims to help the workers by offering them occupational guidance and job-search assistance, as well as vocational training and retraining, and aid for self-employment. the pharmaceutical industry worldwide is increasingly reorganising and consolidating in order to retain its competitiveness, so i am satisfied that the egf is yet again demonstrating clearly the eu’s added value in providing a safety net for those who lose out as a result of these changes.
in writing. − the european commission rightly noted that the global financial crisis has had a significant negative impact on the development of europe’s shipbuilding industry. production at european shipyards has decreased, and according to cesa the shipbuilding workforce in europe declined by 23% over the past three years. in galicia, the figure was even worse, at 30%, for a sector which represents 45% of the spanish shipbuilding industry. unemployment in galicia rose from 8% at the end of 2008 to 17.25 % in late 2011. i therefore welcome the egf aid for 450 workers, which will include occupational guidance and accompaniment towards business creation or self-employment, as well as general re-training and vocational training, among other measures. i was particularly pleased to see that some funding will be reserved for contribution to commuting expenses and assistance for carers of dependent persons. as some of my mep colleagues will know, i am a strong advocate of supporting carers and i congratulate the authors of this application for their progressive thinking.
in writing. − in my home country, ireland, we are intimately familiar with the perils associated with downturns in the construction sector. it brings me no pleasure to note that other eu countries are experiencing similar or related difficulties. i agree with commission andor, who noted earlier this year that the construction sector in gelderland, netherlands, has been hit particularly hard by the effects of the global crisis and its job-seekers are facing difficulties in finding new employment. the netherlands applied for egf support for 516 workers who lost their jobs at 54 small and medium-sized construction enterprises operating in gelderland, which with 2 million inhabitants is the netherlands’ biggest province, and an area where construction is a major employer. the package aims to help workers by offering them job-search assistance, vocational training, and entrepreneurship courses. i also welcome the inclusion of the innovative ‘flexpool’ in their egf application – a flexible pool providing links for both job-seekers and employers in the construction sector, which can offer temporary employment so that retrained workers gain new work experience.
in writing. − the netherlands applied for egf aid for zalco aluminium zeeland company because authorities rightly assessed that the downturn in the european aluminium industry – which was sharp and sudden – could be attributed to declining demand in the construction and automotive sectors due to the global financial and economic crisis. according to the commission, zalco’s income suffered from this severe slowdown in aluminium production between 2008 and 2009, but also from the rise in energy costs between april 2010 and october 2011. as well as the usual package of personalised egf supports, i was pleased to note that zalco will implement measures to stimulate older workers to remain in the labour market. this is a recurring theme in a number of eu policy debates at present, so i think it is appropriate and important that europe ‘put its money where its mouth is’ when it comes to keeping older europeans working.
in writing. − many of my mep colleagues are aware that peugeot citroën recently announced a further wave of redundancies – this is further proof, as if any were needed, that the global automotive industry is still struggling to deal with the worst effects of the economic crisis. this egf application is not linked to these recent developments, but rather to an earlier announcement of redundancies at peugeot citroën in 2009 and 2010. as was the case in the us, ongoing restructuring in some aspects of the european car industry is necessary in order for it to regain global competitiveness. i therefore think it was appropriate that we meps today agreed to provide eur 11.9 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 2 089 workers who were made redundant in that period. the french regions affected by the redundancies are bretagne, franche-comté, île-de-france, alsace and lorraine – most of whom have higher unemployment than the national average. i also consider it appropriate at this time to echo the commission's call to maintain the egf for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, while further improving its functioning. the fund is a concrete example of the twin eu value of solidarity and added value, and should be maintained.
in writing. − the danish authorities responsible for this egf application argued that the european wind turbine industry was seriously impacted by changes in world trade patterns and a major drop in eu market share. indeed, denmark is to be complimented for starting the implementation of support measures ahead of the final decision on its egf application, in order to provide workers with quick and timely assistance. vestas employed many high-skilled workers and i hope that the egf funding will be used to ensure that their skills sets are successfully reutilised for the continued benefit of denmark’s already-impressive renewable energy sector. the total estimated cost of the package is approximately eur 15 million, of which the egf would provide almost half, i.e. eur 7.4 million.
in writing. − i opposed the acaa agreement as it is inappropriate until there is tangible progress in israel’s respect for international humanitarian and rights law. approving acaa, moreover, is inconsistent with the parliament's frequently repeated condemnation of israel’s occupation policies in gaza and the west bank. why should israel gain increased access to european pharmaceutical markets, without any new, concrete undertakings to meet demands for human rights obligations? eu trade commissioner karel de gucht told meps that the eu does not recognise israel's sovereignty over the occupied territories and as such will ensure that products under this agreement come only from israel – not occupied settlements. i sincerely hope that this will be the case. the problem is to ensure that this actually happens on the ground finally, i wish to express my disappointment at the result of the vote, which unfortunately sends a signal that eu-israeli cooperation can continue apace regardless of israel’s policies in the occupied palestinian territory, which are not recognised by international law. as noted by irish ngo trócaire, granting greater access to the israeli pharmaceutical industry also means benefiting a sector which profits directly from occupation-related policies, as outlined by the israeli coalition of women for peace.
in writing. − the fine gael delegation in the european parliament voted in favour of this protocol. our position has always been to uphold international law and we have for a long time been advocates of a two state solution regarding the israeli - palestinian question in the middle east. the eu does not recognise israeli jurisdiction over the territories placed under israeli administration after 1967. the european commission will observe this position in the implementation of the acaa, which does not under any circumstances imply any recognition of israel’s jurisdiction over the occupied territories. furthermore, it is clear from rule 81 of chapter 9 ‘consent procedure’ of the rules of parliament that all amendments in plenary are forbidden as only a single vote is provided for.
i scríbhinn. − ní seo an chéad uair dúinn tábhacht na 23 milliún fiontar beag agus meánmhéide eorpach a lua don pharlaimint. an deacracht is mó a bhíonn ag fbm ná teacht ar mhaoiniú agus iasachtaí beaga . tuigtear dom, ó fhiontair bheaga i mo cheantar áitiúil féin, nach bhfuil mórán dul chun cinn déanta. d’fhéadfaí iomaíochas agus borradh an ae a thógáil ar bhunchloch na fbm, a bhfuil 75 milliún duine fostaithe san eoraip acu, ach chuige sin ní mór don ae bearta láidre cinnte a ghlacadh chun dul i ngleic le deacrachtaí na hearnála. tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le scéimeanna tacaíochta ‘mapála’ áitiúla, réigiúnacha, náisiúnta agus eorpacha a chur ar bun chun cabhrú le fbm maoiniú a bhaint amach, scéimeanna a chuireann iasachtaí ar fáil do mhicrifhiontair go háirithe. ní mór beart a dhéanamh de réir ár mbriathar agus an rómhaorlathas a laghdú agus cúrsaí riaracháin a shimpliú. ní foláir go mbeadh prionsabal an ‘one in, one out’ á leanúint i gcás reachtaíochta don mhargadh singil. de réir sin, ní bheifí in ann rialachán nua ar bith lena mbeadh costas do fbm i gceist a thabhairt isteach gan rialachán comhluachach reatha eile sa réimse céanna a chealú.
in writing. − smes are comparatively more prevalent in ireland than across the eu as a whole. smes in ireland represent 99.7% of all businesses and account for 69% of all jobs in the private, non-financial sector. almost one third of irish smes are active in high-tech manufacturing and knowledge-intensive service sectors, which are crucial for ireland’s future competitiveness. smes in ireland and all across europe are still struggling with the effects of the economic crisis. according to the commission, the number of jobs in the smes sector has fallen by more than twice the amount in the larger enterprise sector. i welcome the concrete actions set out in the rübig report to improve the competitiveness of smes, to support and promote their activities outside the eu and to reduce unnecessary regulatory burdens on smes and microenterprises and very much endorse the call for an erasmus-type programme for young entrepreneurs, though i would have concerns about any proposals for a blanket exemption for smes and micro-enterprises from eu health and safety rules and on workers’ rights.
in writing. − smes are the heartbeat of the european economy and i am very pleased that we are placing them centre stage. the suggestions contained in this resolution will go a long way, if implemented, to helping smes help the european economy on the road to recovery and prosperity. if every sme in the eu added one more staff member to their books, the unemployment crisis would disappear overnight, so it is incumbent on us across all sectors to provide an sme-friendly environment, particularly in relation to cosme, horizon 2020 and access to credit.
mr president, data retention measures are always fraught with sensitive problems in relation to the respect of citizens’ fundamental rights. our privacy is in jeopardy due to the misuse or loss of data, especially under a blind blanket instrument for the collection of our systems and communications data. in the post-9/11 world, executives and lawmakers have been under extreme pressure to show strength and decisiveness in the fight against international terrorism and organised crime. mistakes and abuses have abounded in the process, but fortunately, in the eu, discussions on the best means to address serious crime benefit from a calmer and less polarised environment, especially in comparison to the us. europe has not neglected its responsibilities in this field; neither should it shy away from coolly assessing the effectiveness and proportionality of any security measures passed in reaction to serious threats. the rights at stake are no less serious. the commission has committed itself to a review and must conduct one as early as evidence-based assessment allows.
madam president, let us remind ourselves of how different, cumbersome and even impossible european citizens and businesses would find many of the mundane tasks we take for granted were it not for the groundwork already done on the internal market over the past 20 years. moreover, cross-border trade in the eu has been an invaluable source of prosperity, increased access and economies of scale for our businesses. unfortunately, given the present design of our monetary union, trade has also been a source of imbalances between the centre and the periphery in the eu, forcing large numbers of our young unemployed people to seek jobs abroad. our current work on the review of the professional qualifications directive is acutely important, and we must make sure, when dealing with healthcare professionals, that we facilitate professional mobility without jeopardising key principles such as patient safety, and that we do not undermine training standards. the internal market is not an end in itself but rather a means of achieving prosperity and increasing social cohesion. that must guide us in our work, so that we can arrest the race to the bottom which we have witnessed with blind liberalisation moves on many fronts.
in writing. – it was estimated that around 270 000 students will participate in erasmus this year. however, with the budgetary problems there are many students intending to undertake this programme in the coming months who are rightly very worried about this situation. faced with the prospect of a shortage of funds, universities and colleges are likely to reduce the number of places available, or they will reduce the level of grants available. this will hit students from disadvantaged backgrounds hardest. i appreciate the efforts being made by the commission and my colleagues in parliament to address this situation, but the fact remains that the shortfall in the erasmus programme amounts to eur 90 million. if an agreement to increase payments cannot be reached, the erasmus programme will be at risk, and students, adults and vocational training will all be affected. it is clear that cuts have to come from somewhere, but the message that the eu sends in times of austerity cannot be that cuts to the eu budget will fall on the youth of europe first – those on whom we are relying to be the foundation of future innovation, growth and development.
mr president, the reason i rose is that 200 million females are missing from the world’s population because of gender-based abortion and infanticide. we have to stand up for the rights of women; they should not be terminated on the grounds that they are women. (loud applause)
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo, ach creidim a luaithe a éiríonn linn margadh aonair a chríochnú is ea is fearr dúinn uile é, go háirithe chun éalú as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta agus chun jabanna agus fás a chruthú san aontas eorpach. i find it somewhat bemusing to hear that this addresses the concerns of european citizens and businesses. it certainly addresses the concerns of businesses but, unfortunately, where most citizens are concerned, they are probably not even aware of the single market and what it means. that certainly is a challenge for us. having said that, the proposals are eminently sensible and certainly they are worth completing as soon as we can. i would just like to emphasise two of them. one is the vast potential that is there in the use of the internet and e-commerce. too many businesses do not trade outside their own member state, never mind the european union: there is a challenge for us. the other is the recognition of qualifications across the european union.
a uachtaráin, caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil ardmheas againn ar an tseapáin. is dóigh liom gur náisiún iontach í. tá na seapánaigh ciallmhar; tá siad cliste; oibríonn siad go dian agus tá an-dul chun chinn déanta acu le blianta fada anuas. dar ndóigh tá deacrachtaí móra acu faoi láthair de bharr an chúlú eacnamaíochta domhanda, de bharr an tsúnámaí, de bharr fukushima agus mar sin de – ach tiocfaidh siad as sin de réir a chéile. is féidir linne san aontas eorpach cabhrú leo trí mhargadh saorthrádála a shocrú leo. dar ndóigh tá fadbhanna ann. dírím, go háirithe, ar cheann amháin, is é sin public procurement nó soláthar poiblí, agus caithfidh siad a n-aigne a athrú faoi sin. dúradh cheana féin cúpla ceann de na pointí is tábhachtaí chun an margadh saor a bhunú eadrainn agus a luaithe éiríonn linn é a dhéanamh, is é is fearr don aontas agus is fearr don tseapáin é.
in writing. − i want to congratulate the rapporteur on the adoption of her resolution on the commission’s report on policy coherence for development in 2011. all eu policies that affect developing countries must take account of eu development aims. i am also pleased to see this report adopted because i served as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, the first of many such reports and opinions i hope to do in the ep. i welcome the fact that paragraphs 108 to 116 take up my committee’s comments and suggestions in full, including those on ensuring that the social clauses in eu trade agreements are implemented and monitored; on the importance of agreeing binding corporate social responsibility obligations; on mainstreaming social policy in the work of the eeas; and on ensuring that the commission examines the social implications for developing countries when conducting impact assessments of eu proposals. we must remember that the social clause (article 9, tfeu) applies both within the eu and ‘externally’. we now need a strong political commitment from the commission and from the european council to policy coherence for development, promoted by the member states through specific work programmes, with binding timetables.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the backdrop to this report is the collapse of investment all across europe. public investment has been slashed as a direct result of the neo-liberal and austerity policies pushed by all of the major groups inside this parliament, and by the commission. but in addition private investment, as a percentage of gdp, has collapsed to the lowest level ever in the history of capitalism, and that is despite the increase in profits in europe over the past three years. so instead of investing this wealth, they are choosing to hoard it or to speculate, to gamble with it on the financial markets. that strike of capital is precisely why society must not accept them having the say over investment happening or not happening, them holding society hostage. but the response of the commission is yet more reliance on these profiteers attempting to leverage public money with things like project bonds. the answer is not so-called ‘risk sharing’ with the private sector, where the private sector gets the profits and the public sector gets the risk, it is to reject the logic of the profit system. massive and direct public investment is needed. there is no absence of funds in europe. there is no poverty of overall resources in europe: the rich – the major corporations – hold eur 3 trillion that are being hoarded at the moment. the point is to take that wealth through the likes of a capital tax and invest it to create jobs and provide infrastructure.
mr president, i welcome the report on the activities of the ombudsman and recognise the important role played by this office in promoting the integrity of european public administration. clouds of doubt have recently been cast over the institutions regarding what the media have termed ‘dalligate’, or the resignation of former commissioner dalli. speaking at the committee on budgets last year, commissioner šemeta emphasised, in his proposals for a more efficient olaf, the importance of certain procedural rights contained in the charter of fundamental rights being protected in the course of olaf investigations. given this, i would like to know if the ombudsman intends to investigate the circumstances surrounding the olaf report into the issues surrounding the tobacco directive, as certainly there seem to be serious questions surrounding the procedural integrity of the whole process. i wish to thank the ombudsman for being here.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar suimiúil seo faoin nós imeachta ‘aird a tharraingt’. madam president, the commissioner summed up russia’s accession to the wto after 18 years pretty well, and his views were echoed by many speakers. his views could be summarised in two words: cautious optimism. certainly there is cause for optimism. i feel that progress may be slow and that we may have to settle for the macmillan maxim of two steps forward, one step backward. nevertheless, having the international standards of the wto to deal with any disputes, etc. can only lead to progress. particularly, i hope this will lead to the removal of trade-restrictive measures, especially on the importation of live animals and public procurement. russia can be guaranteed that the eu will play by the rules. the question is: will russia? over to you, mr putin.
madam president, today i had the honour of witnessing the signature of my report by the president of parliament and the president-in-office of the council, when they formally entered into eu legislation the regulation on certain measures in relation to countries allowing non-sustainable fishing. this regulation now gives commissioner damanaki the necessary tools to introduce hard-hitting sanctions against countries engaged in unsustainable fishing practices – countries such as iceland and the faroe islands in the case of mackerel, a straddling stock in the north east atlantic. this fishery was expected to be worth in excess of eur 1 billion in 2010, before the onset of overfishing by these islands. in 2008, both islands were fishing very modest amounts of mackerel. this, of course, is in sharp contrast to the landings in 2011, which reached up to 150 000 tonnes in both cases – a totally unsustainable figure. this unsustainable increase in landings was at first hidden to a degree, and the price did not drop significantly because of the unfortunate situation in japan. in conclusion, let me say that the commissioner, now that she has the tools, must take urgent action and implement the relevant provision contained in the regulation, which had almost unanimous support in this house, bearing in mind that talks to resolve the dispute once again broke down without agreement in london this week.
madam president, the nobel peace prize committee clearly either has a devious sense of humour or a fundamental misunderstanding of the word ‘peace’, because three years ago they gave it to the drone warrior obama. three years later they want to give it to the eu, which is an institution or group of institutions, together with right-wing governments across europe, waging what can only be described as class war on working people. austerity is their weapon of choice in that war, and that weapon is being wielded absolutely viciously on behalf of the bankers, bondholders, big business and the rich against workers across europe, for us to pay for their crisis. but now they are facing a simultaneous and massive fightback. greek workers have been joined on the front line by workers from spain and portugal, with millions protesting across europe in the past weeks. very significantly, united, general strike action will take place in greece, spain, portugal, malta and cyprus on 14 november. this must be added to by mass protests in other countries across europe. that date, 14 november, can go down in history as the day that workers across europe stood up and said ‘no’ to austerity. it must leave the troika in no doubt about the determination of workers to resist, and their power to do so, and it can be the vital next step in building europe-wide general strike action to stop their austerity agenda.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá faoi chomhdháil mhór atá á heagrú sa pharlaimint seo agam idir an 4 agus 8 márta 2013. in conjunction with isc – intelligence in science, declan troy and i are organising a major conference here between 4 and 8 march 2013, as part of the irish presidency, called ‘global science collaboration’. the european parliament and the irish presidency will be co-hosts. the idea behind it is that we are now facing major global challenges and these can only be tackled from a global perspective. to do that we particularly need people collaborating rather than competing. we want to bring together the scientists and the policymakers, which we will hopefully do when we have representatives from 100 countries around the world here in parliament on those dates. out of that, we hope we will lay the groundwork for collaboration so that we can avail ourselves properly of the potential referred to in horizon 2020.
blue-card question. – could it be the case that your unwillingness to criticise the human rights record in the uae has something to do with the imperialist interests of the us and the major capitalist forces in europe and their geostrategic interest in the region? surely that explains the difference in your rhetoric in relation to human rights in bahrain – another us client state – and your condemnations of human rights abuses elsewhere. i would also share your condemnation – but why the exception for the uae?
author. − mr president, let me start by expressing my deep respect for malala yousafzai’s courageous stand to fight for the right to education. the taliban’s attack on her life highlights the grim prospects for young women and girls within pakistan. it is the third most dangerous place in the world for women. hundreds of schools are attacked and destroyed by radical, right-wing islamic groupings, which unfortunately are growing stronger. of course, as always, it is ordinary working people, and in particular women, who bear the disastrous consequences for the increasing disintegration of pakistani society. developments in pakistan cannot be separated from developments in afghanistan. the resurgence of reactionary taliban forces in both afghanistan and pakistan cannot be seen separately from the us-led occupation of afghanistan and the us drone attacks in north-west pakistan, which have so far killed about 3 000 people. a recent us law report concluded that ‘the number of high-level militants killed as a percentage of total casualties is extremely low, estimated at just 2%’. evidence suggests that us strikes have facilitated recruitment to violent, non-state armed groups and motivated further violent attacks. the drone war in pakistan must be ended. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i can quite easily explain myself, thank you very much. let me re-quote the report from a us law school, which simply says, ‘evidence suggests that us strikes have facilitated recruitment to violent, non-state armed groups’. the occupation of afghanistan and the drone war on pakistan act, in reality, as a recruiting sergeant for right-wing islamic forces. that is the reality. it is these same forces that are carrying out attacks on schools and these same forces – like the taliban – that obviously attempted to kill malala. that is recognition of the reality. similarly, can you defend the attack on – and the continuing occupation of – afghanistan as really having anything to do with the september 11 attack? it has become clear that there is very little connection between the two, and that it was part of a pre-existing plan.
a uachtaráin, is léir go bhfuil an chuid is mó de na feisirí sásta le hobair an ombudsman mar níor vótáil ach deichniúr i gcoinne na tuarascála ar maidin. bhí díospóireacht againn anseo inné, agus is léir freisin go raibh an chuid is mó de na feisirí sásta leis an ombudsman chomh maith, agus mhínigh sé a jab agus cad atá ar siúl aige. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach do na saoránaigh. nuair a bhíonn gearán ag daoine tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh siad in ann dul áit éigin chun an gearán sin a chur os comhair duine neamhspleách – agus tá sé sin ag tarlú gan aon dabht ar bith. rud amháin eile a mholfainn ná go mbeadh ombudsman againn do na multinationals nó cuideachtaí ilnáisiúnta. go háirithe chun féachaint isteach sna praghsanna a íocann siad le feirmeoirí as na táirgí a cheannaíonn siad uathu. is léir go bhfuil gearán mór ag na feirmeoirí, agus dá mbeadh an tombudsman sin againn bheadh sé i bhfad níos fearr do gach duine.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus vótáil ar a son. molaim go háirithe an dea-obair atá déanta ag jean-paul gauzès agus ag daoine nach é san obair seo. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. taispeánann sé go bhfuilimid – de réir a chéile – ag cur rialacha ar bun, ní hamháin chun éalú as an gcúlú eacnamaíochta ach chun a chinntiú nach ndéanfaimid na botúin chéanna arís go deo. is sampla é an european semester nó an seimeastar eorpach den obair sin; molaim é agus déanfaidh sé an-mhaitheas amach anseo. freisin, tá tagairt sa tuarascáil don reifreann a bhí in éirinn ar an gconradh fioscach, agus moltar é. dar ndóigh, éacht ab ea é 60% a fháil i bhfabhar an reifrinn nuair a smaoiníonn tú ar na deacrachtaí atá in éirinn faoi láthair. dá bhrí sin, is léir go bhfuilimid ag dul ar aghaidh de réir a chéile agus cabhraíonn an seimeastar eorpach linn é sin a bhunú.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá ar dtús go raibh mé an-sásta leis an díospóireacht a bhí againn aréir ar an tuarascáil seo. arís, glacadh léi beagnach d’aonghuth inniu, agus is maith sin. gan dabht ar bith tá sé i bhfad níos fearr an rúis a bheith istigh sa wto ná a bheith taobh amuigh de, agus tugann sé an-seans dúinn dul chun cinn a dhéanamh ar mhaithe na heorpa agus ar mhaithe na rúise – is é sin, má chloíonn an rúis leis na rialacha. cloífimidne leis na rialacha, feicfimid an gcloífidh siadsan leo. tá súil agam gurb amhlaidh a bheidh. rud amháin eile, bhí áthas orm freisin tacaíocht a thabhairt don mholadh mar gheall ar chás ucos. gan dabht ar bith tá gá le hiniúchadh neamhspleách; agus má bhíonn an t-iniúchadh neamhspleách sin ag an rúis, cabhróidh sé sin le muinín níos fearr a bheith againn astu agus rachaimid ar aghaidh as sin.
in writing. − i welcome aspects of these reports (a7-0306/2012, a7-0303/2012), such as the imposition of some regulation on practices such as high-frequency trading and the over-the-counter trading of derivates. i also welcome position limits that will at least curb some of the worst excesses of commodity speculation. however, i abstained on the final reports. the reports go nowhere near far enough in challenging the dominance of the financial markets, which will continue despite these regulations. speculators have been gambling on the financial markets in order to make massive profits off the backs of the world’s poor; creating mass poverty and hardship in the process. these practices should be outlawed. instead of a financial market that is run in the interests of the major finance houses and speculators i stand for a financial sector that is run in the interests of the vast majority in society, where its goal is the facilitation of the democratic planning of the satisfaction of the needs of the world’s population and not the enrichment of a tiny section of speculators.
mr president, i do not think there can be any argument in this house that unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is probably the biggest challenge facing europe at this time. we talk of a lost generation and we have the figures to bear that out – 23 % across the european union. in ireland, 30 % of young people are unemployed, and i appreciate that the statistics are worse in other countries. but behind every statistic is the tragedy of young people who cannot make a contribution to their society. they suffer loss of earnings, lack of career prospects and indeed a loss of dignity. the situation in relation to long-term unemployment is of particularly concern and one of the findings of the troika in ireland was that there is a very worrying evolution from short-term unemployment to long-term unemployment. i know that the commission has proposals to introduce a youth guarantee in december 2012 and i very much welcome this proposal and i would ask the commission to ensure that there is adequate funding for the youth guarantee. it is not a magic bullet, but we do need to take urgent and drastic action to address the issue of youth unemployment in europe.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith as ucht deis labhartha a thabhairt dom maidir leis an ábhar tábhachtach seo – páistí sa saol digiteach. in ireland, we unfortunately have become all too aware of the terrible repercussions due to several tragic incidents following bullying on social networking sites. the report recognises the risk posed by the internet in terms of online intimidation and bullying. i fully support the recommendations contained in the report which call for an education alliance among families, schools and civil society to protect children on the internet. i also support the need for greater awareness-raising initiatives aimed at parents and schools. it is also necessary to introduce the proper mechanisms at school level to support those who have been affected by online bullying. it is vital that we continue to train and educate both parents and teachers to keep them up to speed with new technologies, social networking sites and, crucially now, the young people who use them.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is áit iontach í an t-idirlíon agus tá a lán buntáistí tar éis teacht leis go háirithe don saol sóisialta agus don saol eacnamaíochta. ach cosúil le gach rud nua bíonn míbhuntáistí ag baint leis chomh maith agus go háirithe feicimid le déanaí cibearbhulaíocht a dhéanann an-damáiste ar fad go háirithe do dhaoine óga. fiú amháin, i mo thír féin, chuir cúpla duine óg le déanaí lámh lena mbás féin agus is uafásach é sin. dá bhrí sin, tá géarghá le rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi agus an rud is tábhachtaí ná oideachas a sholáthar do na daoine óga, do na múinteoirí agus níos tábhachtaí ar fad, do na tuismitheoirí chun iad a chur ar an eolas maidir leis an idirlíon agus an dara rud ansin monatóireacht cheart a dhéanamh ar an idirlíon i dtreo agus go gcloífidh gach duine leis na rialacha.
mr president, misleading or unclear information regarding the total cost of loans to consumers can cause serious financial difficulties, particularly to households with limited available incomes. the commission must ensure that the consumer credit directive is correctly transposed by member states and that consumers have a right to definite information relating to borrowing rates and charges incurred that is provided in an intelligible manner. information provided online by financial institutions has been found wanting by commission checks, whereas a significant majority of the websites monitored provided either insufficient or misleading information and a significant proportion of cross-border loans were taken out online. i have particular concerns about the specific risks involved. the exchange rate and interest rate variations, especially at times of financial volatility, can cause sudden and significant hikes in the cost of loans. loans are increasingly taken out by other means, for example sms loans. this is a cause for concern and i would urge the commission to act on it.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, wim van de camp and antonio panzeri, for their reports. i want to take the opportunity in the presence of the commissioner to raise concerns about some aspects of the safety requirements that the commission is proposing through its roadworthiness package which was introduced in july 2012. previously only four-wheel vehicles had been subject to mandatory annual testing; now all two- and three-wheelers including motorcycles, mopeds and scooters, will come under the umbrella for periodic roadworthiness tests through the commission’s proposal. i have not seen a convincing case for the introduction of these tests for motorcycles. it was pointed out in a study co-funded by the european commission that only about 1% of accidents involving motorcycles are caused or linked to technical defects. clearly road safety is the key concern in this debate, yet it is important that when carrying out assessments of safety requirements we compare past country experiences in a thorough manner. if we take the netherlands, for example, there they have one of the lowest annual rates of motorcycle accidents, as i understand it, yet they have no compulsory roadworthiness tests for motorcycles. additionally, sweden is the only country in scandinavia where periodic roadworthiness tests are mandatory for motorcycles. there was previously an annual test requirement for motorcycles older than ten years, but this was changed in 2004 to biennial tests. one of the reasons was because roadworthiness tests did not require this sort of frequency. so far as i am informed, this decision has had no negative effective on swedish motorcycle accident statistics. it has been estimated that for users of motorcycles in europe the proposal could inflict annual costs of up to eur 1.2 billion. the costs of these measures may far outweigh the expected benefits. will mandatory testing for all motorcycles make a real impact on accidents statistics in europe? let us see the evidence. we need to take a balanced approach on this especially in these difficult times where extra costs can be overwhelming for families and citizens. it is important that we lay down harmonised rules on the administrative and technical requirements for certain vehicles. these reports before us here tonight make vital steps to simplify legislation and to ensure that we are on the right path to making vehicles safer through internal harmonisation. however, it is important to harmonise policies across the eu, but only where they have a real impact.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat agus caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil mé thar a bheith sásta leis an obair atá déanta ag an rapóirtéir wim van de camp. is gluaisrothaí é an rapóirtéir agus measaim go bhfuil sé an-tábhachtach ar fad ó thaobh na tuarascála de. fuair mé, i mo ról mar an rapóirtéir cúil ar son an epp an chuid ríomhphost ó ghluaisrothaithe na heorpa mar gheall ar an ábhar seo agus measaim go bhfuil cothrom na féinne bainte amach ag an uasal van de camp. ní féidir linn dearmad a dhéanamh ar chuid de phríomhaidhmeanna na parlaiminte seo agus is é sin sábháilteacht ar na bóithre. táim sásta ach go háirithe leis an mbéim atá curtha ar an gcóras coscánaithe frithghlasála agus ar an gcomhchóras coscánaithe chomh maith leis an dualgas lasadh soilse i rith an lae a bheith feistithe i gceart. tá a fhios againn go bhfuil seans méadaithe faoi ocht go mbeidh timpiste ag gluaisrothar i gcomparáid le duine atá ag tiomáint feithicile eile. ní féidir linn é seo a shéanadh. tá súil agam go mbeidh an lucht gluaisrothair in ann a thuiscint cén fáth go bhfuil an rialachán seo an-tábhachtach ar fad. táim breá sásta go raibh plé tríthaobhach maith idir an chomhairle, an coimisiún agus an tuasal van de camp ar son pharlaimint na heorpa fiú más rud é go raibh sé an-mhall. tá rialachán ag deireadh na dála cruinn agus oiriúnaithe againn anois. caithfimid mar eorpaigh oibriú as lámha a chéile agus laghdú a dhéanamh ar líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre. maidir leis an tuarascáil eile agus is é sin tuarscáil panzeri ar na tarracóirí agus na feithiclí foraoiseachta, táim réasúnta sásta go bhfuil cothromaíocht mhaith faighte ag an rapóirtéir ionas nach gcruthófaí an ró-oifigiúlachas. feictear domsa go bhfuil an tuarascáil seo go maith ó thaobh an chomhsaoil, an mhargaidh inmheánaigh de agus ó thaobh margaidh tras-teorainn na dtarracóirí de agus tá súil agan go gcuideoidh sé sin agus go gcabhróidh sé sin le margadh iomaíoch do tharracóirí a chruthú san aontas eorpach.
madame president, the compromise reached with the council paves the way for a clearer and simpler legal framework for motorbikes. the increased safety requirements are of paramount importance – given the vulnerability of bikers on our roads, who account for a disproportionately high proportion of road accident fatalities – but we also need to be able to explain the advantages of legislative reform to our constituents in a clear and grounded fashion. earlier this year i asked the commission to provide me with detailed data on our benchmarks on the relative performance of anti-lock braking systems on tar and chip road surfaces, which are estimated by the irish department of transportation to account for 85 % of the total irish road network. in its response, the commission simply referred me to its impact assessment which is based on scientific literature and post-accident data. needless to say, i read the impact assessment and, had the data been explicitly quoted, i would not have needed to ask the commission for further information. i must now, therefore, reiterate my request to the commission to forward such data to me so that i can properly inform my constituents of this proposal’s benefits in terms of safety.
madam president, last friday in dublin i had the honour of launching a leonardo da vinci-funded training project called motives. the motives project promotes the wider social returns of workers involved in training and retraining, and the project has developed a tool for measuring the return on social investment or rosi. the social investment approach taken by the ballymun centre is, i believe, one that should be more widely replicated across europe in the years ahead. fiscal consolidation on its own will not end the crisis and will only work if combined with growth. enlightened social investment policies make a tangible difference not only in raising employment levels but also in promoting high-skilled quality jobs. social investment policies will help to prepare people for change rather than just trying to repair the damage after the event. i supported the social investment pact, which promotes the progressive social, jobs and educational targets of the europe 2020 strategy, and i was very pleased to do so.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo agus táim an- sásta leis an obair atá déanta ag an rapóirtéir wim van de camp. is gluaisrothaí é féin an rapóirtéir agus measaim go bhfuil sé an-tábhachtach ar fad ó thaobh na tuarascála de. tuigeann sé an scéal. measaim go bhfuil cothrom na féinne bainte amach ag an uasal van de camp. ní féidir linn dearmad a dhéanamh ar chuid de phríomhaidhmeanna na parlaiminte seo agus is é sin sábháilteacht ar na bóithre. táim sásta ach go háirithe leis an mbéim atá curtha ar an gcóras coscánaithe frithghlasála agus ar an gcomhchóras coscánaithe chomh maith leis an dualgas lasadh soilse i rith an lae a bheith feistithe i gceart. tá a fhios againn go bhfuil seans méadaithe faoi ocht go mbeidh timpiste ag gluaisrothar i gcomparáid le duine atá ag tiomáint feithicile eile. caithfimid mar eorpaigh oibriú as lámha a chéile agus laghdú a dhéanamh ar líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo maidir le tarracóirí agus tarracóirí foraoiseachta. agus mar a dúirt mé anseo aréir nuair a bhíomar ag plé na tuarascála seo táim réasúnta sásta go bhfuil cothrom maith faighte ag an rapóirtéir ionas nach mbeidh ró-oifigiúlachas ann. feictear domsa go bhfuil an tuarascáil seo go maith; ar an gcéad dul síos, ó thaobh an chomhshaoil de agus ar an dara dul síos, ó thaobh an mhargaidh inmheánaigh de agus ó thaobh margadh trasteorann tarracóirí de agus tá súil agam go gcuideoidh sé seo le margadh iomaíoch do tharracóirí a chruthú san aontas eorpach.
madam president, i fully agree with the commission green paper for an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments. the paper aims to get more competition, more choice, more innovation and more payment security, as well as customer trust. however, customer trust is something that needs to be earned. standardisation of the security of payments is a must. as common technical standards are developed, so too must common security payments be. market-based self-regulation of security payments is an absolute non-runner and the commission must legislate for this. the rapporteur also acknowledges the benefits of promoting and increasing card, internet and mobile payments in order to offer consumers and businesses an opportunity to have access to more convenient, more secure, faster, more variable, flexible and cost-effective payment methods, but we need legislation.
madam president, young europeans are online for 88 minutes a day and, in the case of 15-to-16-year-olds, you are talking about two hours. this starts at an average age of nine. as has been said previously, the internet can be very dangerous for inexperienced and naive web surfers who face various risks such as the violation of privacy, the commercial or other use of their profiles, health dangers, dependence phenomena and a distorted relationship with reality and their own identity. harmful online content with strong connotations, as the previous speaker said – violence, discrimination, sexism and racism – is a features of the modern social media. in ireland in the last two months we have had several suicides, including the case of two young girls aged 13, who actually hanged themselves because of bullying. the eu’s safer internet programme is excellent and has a good budget. we need it right up to 2014, but we must strengthen it.
madam president, i want to commend the rapporteur for this excellent report, which recognises the potential of the internet in the education and socialisation of children on the one hand while at the same time seeking to protect children from the harmful aspects of the internet. children face many dangers in the digital environment, from sexual predators, illegal and unethical advertising to cyber bullying, and indeed there have been two cases recently in ireland of suicides due to cyber bullying. the digital environment by its nature fosters a culture of anonymity and secrecy. 49% of young people go online from their bedroom; 16% of young people have admitted to using a fictitious profile; 27% of 9- to 12-year-olds declare themselves to be older than they are when they are online and, worryingly, 50% of young people say that they find it easier to express themselves online rather than face to face. i particularly welcome the proposal for an educational alliance between the family, school and civil society in understanding the digital world and developing a responsible digital citizenship while identifying and developing strategies for dealing with the dangers of the internet. finally, i believe that the schools etwinning programme could play an important part in the development of such an alliance on a transnational basis. i was happy to support this report.
madam president, the primary purpose of social enterprise is to make a positive social impact. social enterprises, particularly in the health and social care services and in the green economy, are now a major feature of european society and are indeed an integral part of the european social model. they account for two million enterprises, ten percent of all european enterprises; they employ 11 million people or six percent of all workers in the eu. social enterprises are therefore important drivers of sustainable development, social innovation and inclusion and indeed the participation of marginalised groups. i believe that they have a major role to play in achieving the social, employment and educational targets of the eu 2020 strategy. it is therefore important to create a favourable climate for social enterprises and it is important that we have the political framework and the financial support necessary for social enterprises to both survive in the current crisis and to thrive.
in writing. − this regulation has my support as it provides straightforward rules on the access to justice for our citizens and businesses. the implementation of a clear and consistent rule of law throughout member states is of the upmost importance as it allows citizens to trust their legal system, and rest assured that policy will be followed in a similar manner throughout the european union. the regulation sets out that a judgment given in one member state is to be recognised without special proceedings being required. in today’s world, where increasing numbers of people move between member states, it is a great comfort to know the states will consistently enforce the rule of law. many achievements will be accomplished by this regulation including explicit reference to the rights of workers enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, and protective rules towards individual employees will be greatly improved. in these times, there has been considerable concern over the workers’ rights, especially when it comes to industrial action, and it is vital that the legal system which is in place protects and respects these rights. the regulation is thus of great significance in terms of the development of eu law.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the casini resolution on the right to vote and stand in ep elections for eu citizens living in other member states. the proposed changes would make it easier for citizens of other member states to vote and to stand in ep elections in their member state of residence, for example by removing the current obligation upon them to apply to their member state of origin for a certificate proving that they have not forfeited any of their civic rights; the ‘burden of proof’ will now lie with the electoral authorities in the member state of residence. i particularly welcome the proposals that future commissioners should be chosen as far as possible from newly elected meps, and that member states designate both a male and a female candidate in order to ensure gender balance within the next commission.
in writing. − i support the social investment pact as it addresses the new social risks faced by the european union as a result of the economic crisis. while fiscal consolidation remains a priority, it is highly important that future development is not hampered by neglecting social policy. issues of employment and education must not be forgotten as member states strive to meet budgets. by committing fully to the social pact, a state will ensure a stronger, brighter future for the next generation. the pact sets out investment targets and goals in terms of combating youth unemployment and problems with the current social assistance schemes. while financial stability is important, it must be acknowledged that budget consolidation must be complemented by a social investment strategy. without the maintenance of strong social policies, we will not be able to create sustainable jobs, restore the faith of many citizens in national and european institutions, nor can we pave the way towards greater stability in the future.
in writing. − i voted to support this important report which clearly identifies that the union’s promotion policy should reward farmers and food promotion actions where substantial efforts have been made to implement production systems which respond to the new challenges european farmers face. at less than 1 % of total cap spending, it is clear that promotion is grossly overlooked. if we want consumers to be fully aware of the high quality excellent produce produced by european farmers to the highest standards then we must communicate this information to them clearly, simply and in a manner that they can use and respond to. the agri-food sector is a strong sector and one that has the potential to be the catalyst for economic growth in many member states. in ireland alone the agri-food industry is flourishing, food and drink exports increased by 12 % last year, reaching close to eur 9 billion. it is an innovative industry, which should have its efforts supported and bolstered by a strong promotion policy that is accessible to producers, understood by consumers and effective in the market.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála toisc go gcreidim go mba cheart go mbeadh údair agus ealaíontóirí saothair grafacha in ann leas agus brábús a bhaint as rathúlacht eacnamúil na saothar a ghin siad féin. mar atá faoi láthair, is minic go mbíonn difríochtaí suntasacha idir chaighdeáin riarachán cearta athdhíola ealaíonta na mballstát éagsúla. an toradh air sin ná go mbíonn ualach airgeadais níos troma in ann dóibh siúd atá chun bun an mhargaidh ealaíne agus a mbíonn éifeacht i bhfad níos mó ag costais riaracháin na gceart athdhíola orthu. ar an mbonn céanna, cuirtear ualach suntasach airgeadais ar lucht gairmiúil an mhargaidh ealaíne chomh maith agus is féidir go dtiocfadh laghdú ar na ríchíosanna a bhíonn á bhfáil ag ealaíontóirí dá bharr. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil á moladh maidir le cur i bhfeidhm an ceart athdhíola a chomhchuibhiú san ae agus córas níos cothroime a chur i bhfeidhm d’ealaíontóirí eorpacha.
in writing. − the aim of the resale rights directive is to ensure that visual artists (or their estates) share in the economic success of their work, particularly when its true value is not recognised at the time of its first sale, and to harmonise member states’ droit de suite legislation, some of which dates back to the 1920s. the commission’s 2011 report found no clear link between implementation of this directive and the loss of eu art market share. it did find however that an administrative burden was placed on art-market professionals in some member states. i therefore endorse its recommendation to establish an exchange of best practice and a stakeholders’ dialogue to try to minimise costs, and to produce a further report by 2014. but i believe we need to do more. for example, the commission should give consideration to moving towards some form of mandatory collective management across the eu so as to guarantee the collection, administration and distribution of royalties. consideration should also be given to reducing the threshold to eur 1 000 – studies indicate that this move in britain increased the number of benefiting artists by over 90%. the directive should be transposed through primary legislation.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí tráthúla seo a bhfuil sé mar aidhm aici léibhéal ard cosanta a chur ar fáil ó thaobh creidmheas tomhaltais de. ní foláir sábháilteacht na rialacha maidir le híocaíochtaí le cártaí a fheabhsú. tacaím leis na moltaí i dtaca le rialacha agus caighdeáin nua a thabhairt isteach d’íocaíochtaí pearsanta le cártaí creidmheasa agus le cártaí dochair ar mhaithe le cumas agus éifeachtacht iomlán an mhargaidh a bhaint amach. ní mór go mbeadh an t-íosléibhéal céanna do híocaíochtaí soghluaiste, idirlín agus le cártái i bhfeidhm i mballstáit uile an ae.
in writing. − i fully support the recommendations in this report for increased education and awareness of both the benefits and dangers of the internet and also for technologies designed for prevent children from accessing content inappropriate for their age, such as parental control tools or age verification systems, to be improved and strengthened. it is important that policymakers assist parents, educators and communities in addressing the challenges and problems facing children in the digital world and that policy keeps up with technological advancements. it is also essential that it is made easier to report illegal content or abuse and for cross-border measures in this regard to be increased given the nature of the digital world.
in writing. − i support the social business initiative as i believe it is highly important to promote and encourage a positive environment for these enterprises, particularly during times of crisis. a social business is an enterprise whose primary objective is to achieve social impact rather than generating profit. these businesses have a positive social impact on the world around them and strive to be accountable and transparent in their dealings with others. in recent years, they have also created many jobs in various sectors throughout europe, presently employing over 11 million paid employees. as these enterprises provide important social services in an innovative manner, adequate financial and political support should be readily available to them. the social business initiative proposes new ways of improving social businesses’ access to funding, providing them with a clearer pathway to expansion and growth. the unexploited potential of these enterprises can be explored, finding new ways to identify and overcome our social problems. in times of social or financial crisis, social businesses may help us to uncover creative and fresh solutions to many of the problems we face.
in writing. − i very much endorse the call in the thyssen report for a strong social pillar to emu, including a social protocol to protect fundamental rights, a social protection floor, guaranteed access to public services, equal pay and terms for work of equal value and a european youth guarantee. if we want emu to work, we must work towards a social union. moves towards a genuine emu must be based on the ‘community’ method, with enhanced accountability to the european parliament, especially in relation to the coordination of member states economic policies and the esm, and to national parliaments. to implement june’s growth compact and to achieve the aims of the eu2020 strategy, we need a eurozone counter-cyclical spend of 1% of gdp within the eu budget as well as a clear path towards a redemption fund. i do regret however that this resolution did not propose a ‘golden rule’ for investment and eurobonds. finally, i have set out my position on the ccctb on 19 april 2012 (a7-0052/2012) and on the ftt on 23 may 2012 (a7-00352/2011) and i refer to those explanations of votes in relation to this resolution.
blue-card question. – i have listened to this debate and in the interest of fairness perhaps you will pass on my email address to all of those lobbyists from industry who have lobbied you, because i am on the environment committee and i have not received any of that. i have, on the other hand, received a great deal of lobbying from people who are very concerned about fracking and i take on board their concerns, but i do think you do a disservice to this debate by making the suggestion, first of all, that we can be influenced unduly by any lobbyist and, secondly, that it has all been in one direction. there is a question in there somewhere, mr president.
mr president, i came to this debate as perhaps one of the ‘undecideds’, and i am afraid it has been so polarised that i remain to be convinced either way. but let us deal with some of the facts here and the reports we are dealing with. i urge people to read the reports, in particular the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is extremely balanced and takes into account many of the concerns. let us also recognise that article 194(2) states very clearly that member states are sovereign when it comes to their energy mix and their energy choice. i have received a great deal of lobbying only on one amendment, which concerns whether we should urge member states to place a moratorium on fracking. i will only speak for my own member state. we have not issued exploration licences. we have some licensing options to explore the potential, but the government and minister have said very clearly that they will do nothing until they see research, and that will not be available until 2014. we need to look at all of the risks and evidence that is there. therefore, i am questioning whether we need to vote on this amendment for a moratorium, given that in many member states there already is a de facto moratorium in place.
in writing. – the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state. it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy as this is a clear area of subsidiarity. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states should be free to decide on their own energy policy. shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter. the minister of state for natural resources re-affirmed to the dáil that no decision will be made about commercial shale gas exploration or ‘fracking’ until 2014 at the earliest. until there is time to consider the research the minister confirmed that ‘the use of hydraulic fracturing in exploration drilling will not be authorised’ in ireland. it is most unfortunate that we must vote on this report before we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies. at present we simply do not have enough information to make an informed decision on shale extraction.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am delighted to be able to make a few comments on cases of restructuring in the car industry. first of all, we have to consider the impact on the industry itself and on the economies in the various member states, but equally we need to look at the social impact of all of this – the impact on workers, the impact on their families and on their communities. there is no doubt that this situation has been looming for a long time, with declining domestic demand and of course overcapacity in the industry, and it certainly is questionable whether adequate measures have been taken by member states to anticipate the structural change that is now taking place in europe. i certainly look forward to the commission’s proposals in this area. i would welcome the setting up of an automotive skills council and the social dialogue as outlined by commissioner andor. however, i am particularly concerned with the social impact. the current recession in the eu, coupled with the austerity measures and indeed slow growth globally, paints a pretty dismal picture for many of the workers who will be made redundant. i believe that, in this context, we need to ensure a european response to the issue. we do have a number of suitable instruments at our disposal, including one mentioned by the commissioner himself – the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). that fund was put in place to deal with large-scale redundancies due to globalisation and, in my view, it could provide a significant european response to the situation. the egf can support member states in retraining and upskilling workers, and indeed it can assist workers in setting up their own businesses or in accessing opportunities to change their career path. the egf is important for all member states – indeed 21 member states have already accessed it – but it is particularly important for those member states which are cutting back on expenditure and investment at this point in time, because it can give real assistance and help in funding the retraining and the upskilling of redundant workers. at the moment we have a blocking minority in council on the egf, yet i believe that as an instrument it would be of real assistance in this situation. i am once again calling on member states to review their opposition to this fund and look at it as another policy tool available to their redundant workers. it will not solve all their problems, but it can be an important part of the policy mix. finally, i agree with mr belet that we need a coherent industrial policy in regard to the location of industry and the harmonisation of social standards.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i believe that the committee on petitions is one of the most important committees in parliament because it does provide a real tangible link between the european institutions and citizens. mr chichester was telling us about the explanatory statement. i have a few figures from that and it tells us that since 1997 over 20 000 petitions have been dealt with, and in the last three years alone 323 main petitioners actually addressed the committee in person, so that is a genuine link to citizens. however, the reason they are there in the first place of course is that they have concerns about the transposition or application of european legislation, so it is our duty to respond in a real and meaningful way. one of the most significant areas is the area of the environment, which represents 20 % of the total of infringement cases, and the environmental impact assessment directive is a case in point. indeed, my own member state is before the courts, having failed to properly transpose that piece of legislation. i have personally come across a number of cases and situations that were adversely affected by this, including one in my own constituency in donegal, in a place called carnagarve where a sewage system was being constructed. another issue that has been highlighted is the obstacles faced by persons with disabilities to free movement and it is not just the physical obstacles but the inability to travel without a personal assistant. most of us hop on a plane, a boat or a train and off we go, but for people with disabilities who can only travel with the help of a personal assistant, i am afraid the phrase ‘free movement of persons’ is a hollow promise from the eu because many member states do not provide that service. finally, one thing i can say in light of my experiences on the petitions committee is that we need to be honest with citizens; we should not over-promise; we need to be clear about the possibilities and avenues for redress and above all we should not use the petitions committee to simply pass the buck.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom an tuasal chichester a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aige agus freisin mo chomhghleacaí marian harkin atá ina ball den choiste seo agus a thugann a lán cabhrach domsa agus do a lán daoine eile. mr president, it is interesting that in 2011 just two short of a thousand petitions were admissible. that is a lot of petitions and an awful lot of work and i think that we should acknowledge that and compliment those involved in dealing with these issues because they take a lot of time. i had the privilege of making one of those petitions on behalf of my constituents in haulbowline in cork harbour under the waste framework directive. for six years they had gotten nowhere with their complaints. there was a toxic site, nobody listened to them, the responsibility was passed from jack to billy and billy to jack and as a result nothing happened. yet in that area because of the presence of chromium vi and because the site was toxic it had a 37 % higher cancer rate than the rest of the country. thankfully, the petitions committee met, made a decision and as result of that the government was given three months to clean up the site, for which eur 40 million had been donated and the site has now been cleaned up – a perfect example of the way the petitions committee works. i would like to see that expanded and also made more available to citizens so that they can see the benefits of the petitions committee.
a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil sé déanach san oíche is ábhar tábhachtach é seo mar mura mbíonn rialacha agus dlíthe agat ní bheidh ord agus eagar agat agus mura mbíonn ord agus eagar agat, beidh gach rud trína chéile agus deachtóireacht a bheidh agat in ionad daonlathais. dá bhrí sin, is fiú an t-ábhar seo a phlé. this is a big mouthful – ‘monitoring the application of eu law’. eu law is complicated enough, the application of it is difficult enough, but monitoring the application of eu law is a fairly big mouthful, as i say. nevertheless, it is important and the evidence is that it is not happening enough. i shall give you one example, that of fishing. i have become aware of factory ships registered in one country, owned in another country, taking on fish, discards and so forth, mincing them and then registering only what they actually land at port. eu law must be applied equally and fairly across the board.
i scríbhinn. – tá neart tuairmíochta ar bun le tamall anuas maidir le ciorruithe ar an mbuiséad. is ceist chonspóideach í seo agus ní mór dúinn réiteach a bhaint amach gan mhoill ionas go mbeadh an ae in ann a gcláir nua a thabhairt isteach roimh spriocdháta an 14 eanáir 2014. sa chás i measa, mura féidir teacht ar réiteach is míchinnteacht shuntasach i gcúrsaí pleanála agus feidhmithe a bheadh mar thoradh ar an scéal. ní chun leasa mhuintir na heorpa a bheadh an easpa ceannasaíochta sin, go háirithe i gcomhthéacs deacrachtaí eacnamaíocha an lae inniu. tá ceannairí an ae ag díriú anois ar bhuiséad an cbt a laghdú. is léir as sin nach bhfuil tuiscint cheart acu ar cé chomh tábhachtach is atá an cbt do mhuintir na heorpa, don chomhshaol agus don gheilleagar. ní d’fheirmeoirí amháin atá an cbt. is beartas é a théann chun leasa na bpobal tuaithe, a chuireann bia atá ar ard-chaighdeán ar fáil do thomhaltóirí na heorpa, a bhfuil ardchumas ann cúrsaí trádala a fhorbairt, poist a chruthú agus fás geilleagrach a spreagadh agus, thar aon rud eile, a chinntíonn go mbíonn foinsí slána bia ann i ndomhan ina bhfuil daonraí ag fás agus brú á chur ar acmhainní.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas ormsa freisin tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus gan dabht ar bith, gan dlíthe ní féidir ord agus eagar a bheith trasna na heorpa. ach tá sé an-tábhachtach go ndéanfar monatóireacht cheart ar na rialacha agus go gcuirtear i bhfeidhm iad go cothrom agus freisin ba chóir don choimisiún a bheith níos tapúla ag cur fíneáil ar thíortha nó iad a thabhairt os comhair na cúirte mura bhfuil siad ag cur na rialacha agus na dlíthe i bhfeidhm. ach tá taobh eile den scéal chomh maith; uaireanta bíonn na húdaráis sna tíortha féin ródhian gan háirithe ar dhaoine aonaracha cosúil le feirmeoirí agus iascairí nuair a dhéanann siad botún beag; gearrtar pionóis uafásacha orthu agus uaireanta déantar na botúin sin trí thaisme in ionad d’aonghnó. dá bhrí sin ba cheart go ndéanfaí monatóireacht trasna na heorpa ar fad i dtreo agus go gcuirtear na dlíthe i bhfeidhm go cothrom.
madam president, the dangers of fracking to the environment and to public health are so serious in my opinion that they cannot be regulated for. that is why i signed the amendment seeking a total ban, and when that amendment was defeated i voted against the report as a whole. incredibly, the water used for one single well for fracking would supply 10 000 europeans with water for a whole year, and a recent german study states that the global warming footprint of shale gas extracted at a depth of 1 000 metres is 30% larger than for natural gas, and it is twice as large for gas obtained 2 500 metres down. this environmentally dangerous practice must be banned. it is precisely the same big oil and big gas companies that have already made super profits, and that have already endangered our environment, who now tell us that shale gas is safe and that there is no problem. they simply cannot be trusted. instead of relying on them, the public sector must become the spearhead of investment into research and development and infrastructure to develop green energy production. this can be financed through taking the massive accumulated profits of big oil into democratic public ownership.
madam president, i must say i regret that the amendment i co-signed, requesting member states to act on the precautionary principle and not to authorise any fracking, was not carried. while i understand that this is a member state competence, nonetheless i believe it would have sent a strong signal from this parliament. i think we need to take into consideration the views of the commissioner for the environment, who just yesterday evening spoke in this parliament he said that there are gaps in european legislation and he confirmed that the commission will carry out an impact assessment in 2013 – part of which will be a public consultation. at least that will give citizens and the public a chance to have an input and to make their views known. in my own constituency, there are plans to drill exploratory wells for fracking and many people have real concerns about the environment and about human and animal health. the poor record of fracking in the us gives us every reason to be concerned, and there is no proper framework in place to ensure the protection of the environment and the protection of human and animal health.
madam president, i voted against this report. it is largely supportive of fracking and sees fracking as a core element of the european energy mix. the report does not consider the precautionary principle and is way too optimistic in regard to fracking. just yesterday in this chamber, the commissioner for the environment himself spoke about the risks from fracking and said that they were higher than those from conventional gas exploration. he also said that there are significant gaps in eu legislation in regard to fracking. in my view these gaps include the need for a mining directive, the necessity to expand the remit of the environmental impact assessment directive and gaps in the water framework directive. in my own constituency there are very serious concerns in regard to fracking and its consequences for animal and human health, the destruction of the landscape and damage to our clean, green image. finally, we are facing a fossil fuel cliff globally. shale gas may have postponed the awful day, but our energy mix in the future will not be fossil fuel based. we need to direct our energies and our resources to sustainable renewable energy sources.
a uachtaráin, bhí mé anois sa pharlaimint inné ar feadh trí huaire an chloig nó níos mó nuair a bhí díospóireacht ar an ábhar seo – gás scealla. níor éirigh liom teacht isteach trí phreab na súl cé gur éirigh le feisire eile teacht isteacht dhá nó trí huaire trí mhí-úsáid a dhéanamh dar liomsa ar an gcárta gorm. bíodh sin mar atá, vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí anseo inniu. having listened to the debate yesterday, so many diverse points were made that it was very difficult to come to a balanced conclusion. certainly there are concerns, particularly regarding the environmental aspects of shale gas, but i think, of all the speeches i have heard, the one by kay swinburne was probably the most balanced. it is a matter for the member states. we have to allow for research and development. that is why i particularly welcome the oral amendment today where all stakeholders are to be consulted before the commission makes its report next year.
madam president, since 1997 over 20 000 petitions have been assessed by the committee on petitions and every year several hundred petitioners attend the committee and speak on their petitions. that certainly indicates that there is a genuine link between the citizens and the eu institutions. however, the reason that they are there in first place is because there are issues in relation to either the transposition or the implementation of european legislation. many petitions have been presented this year but one particular issue has been highlighted again and again, and that is the issue of access for eu citizens. that might be in the area of recognition of their professional qualifications, the portability of social security rights etc. one particular issue relates to persons with a disability. in theory they are entitled to free movement, to travel, to work and to live in another member state but if they require a personal assistant then that is a particular obstacle and the whole idea of free movement means nothing because personal assistants are not available in all member states. if that issue were to be dealt with then i think the idea of free movement would be a reality for those people.
a uachtaráin, ní hamháin go raibh mé i láthair ag an díospóireacht inné ach d’éirigh liom labhairt chomh maith. mhol mé obair an choiste agus vótáil mé ar son na moltaí go léir a rinne an rapóirtéir an tuasal chichester anseo inniu. i would like to thank the rapporteur, giles chichester, and also my irish colleague marianne harkin for their good work. i think sometimes we do not give them enough credit for the many hours they put in, dealing with issues of a very personal nature but of a very important nature for those who make the petitions. i have seen that on a personal basis, in particular in relation to haulbowline in cork. shortly i will be having another petition coming forward by a citizen who has concerns about the side effects of a drug he was prescribed. i think it is one way where citizens can really see the european union working and taking care of them and getting justice they could not get if they were not members of the european union. i think we should advertise that more.
in writing. − i regret that an amendment to the sonik report recommending that member states do not authorise any new fracking operations in the eu was not accepted, though i do acknowledge that this, ultimately, is a matter for each member state to decide for itself. the sonik report advocates a cautious eu approach to fracking until informed conclusions can be arrived at on the basis of commission studies assessing the appropriateness of existing eu legislation in this area, the implications for public health, climate change, land-use, and water, and other relevant aspects. the report was strengthened by s&d amendments in these areas. based on its findings, the commission should prepare proposals for appropriate measures such as new eu legislation, where needed. the eu should introduce mandatory environmental impact assessments for explanatory drilling as well as a ban on fracking in sensitive areas such as drinking water protection zones and mining areas. we must insist on public participation through proper information and consultation, and need to apply the precautionary and the polluter-pays principles to all decisions about fracking, including at all stages of exploration and exploitation.
in writing. − the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state. it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy, as this is a clear area of subsidiarity. shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and, until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter. the minister of state for natural resources, fergus o’dowd, reaffirmed to the dáil that no decision will be made about commercial shale gas exploration until 2014 at the earliest. until there is time to consider the research the minister confirmed that ‘the use of hydraulic fracturing in exploration drilling will not be authorised’ in ireland. at present i feel that i am not in a position to make an informed decision on shale extraction. i voted to keep an open mind on fracking and to respect the right of individual member states to decide on their own energy policy.
in writing. − i am in favour of banning shale gas extraction within the member states. the complex drilling procedure involved in gaining access to this gas, and indeed the subsequent extraction process pose many risks to both the surrounding lands and the health of its population. while these extraction methods may lower energy prices across the union by increasing competition, the long-term risks outweigh the short-term economic benefits. many citizens have voiced their concerns over contamination of groundwater and the risk of blowouts on the surface during the extraction. indeed, these concerns seem well-founded when we consider the scientific facts and figures behind this method of extraction. examining the situation in the united states and canada, we can see it is an extremely dangerous extraction method, which needs to be strictly regulated where it is implemented.
in writing. − the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state. it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy as this is a clear area of subsidiarity. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states should be free to adopt energy-mix solutions, including shale gas exploration and extraction. shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and, until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level in ireland, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter. the minister of state for natural resources, fergus o’dowd, reaffirmed to the dáil that no decision will be made about commercial shale gas exploration or ‘fracking’ until 2014 at the earliest. until there is time to consider the research the minister confirmed that ‘the use of hydraulic fracturing in exploration drilling will not be authorised’ in ireland. at present i feel that i am not in a position to make an informed decision on shale extraction. i voted to keep an open mind on fracking and to respect the right of individual member states to decide on their own energy policy.
blue-card question. – mr tannock, do you really think that this onslaught against the people of gaza has anything whatsoever to do with the protection of israeli people? do you not see the connection between this onslaught and the elections in january in view of which the right-wing government is now trying to whip up support? do you not know that this immediate upturn in the conflict has come about after the killing of a 12-year-old boy who was playing soccer in gaza? how can you describe as ‘surgical’ strikes that kill 150 palestinians, the majority of whom are civilians and a number of whom are children? how are they possibly surgical?
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask ms jeggle whether she has seen the statement made by the official representative of the general prosecutor in kazakhstan just yesterday: he effectively said that he would issue a lawsuit to ban all of the opposition political forces in the country, as well as all of the independent and opposition media in the country. in light of that, does she not think that she can reconsider her support for a pca at this stage, and that it should be suspended until there is proven improvement in respect of human rights in the country?
mr president, next month marks the first anniversary of the brutal repression and massacre of striking oil workers and their supporters in zhanaozen. since then, repression aimed at the political opposition, trade unionists and human rights defenders has been stepped up dramatically. that took a turn for the worse yesterday with the statement by the prosecutor-general already referred to. in it he accuses the unregistered opposition of extremist actions. he has also filed lawsuits to ban them, together with a host of independent and opposition media outlets. this is the country in which some members here want to suggest that the human rights situation is improving and that it just needs to be given a small push further, which a further enhanced agreement would do. i want to draw particular attention to the case of human rights defender vadim kuramshin, who was arrested in january 2012 and cleared of all but one minor charge in a jury trial. he has since been rearrested, and could face up to 14 years in prison. the negotiations should be suspended until there is a profound and proven change in the human rights situation on the ground.
thar ceann an ghrúpa ppe. – a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm dhá nóiméad a bheith agam chun labhairt ar an ábhar an-tábhachtach seo, ábhar atá tábhachtach do gach aon saoránach agus do gach aon ghnó ní amháin san aontas eorpach ach sa domhan ar fad. in 1995 we had a data protection directive, which was relevant for that particular time. part of it dealt with the processing of personal data by the police and the judicial authorities. this was a framework decision. over time, parliament realised that this was becoming more and more outdated and called for a revision. it was never really effective, in some respects at least, because it dealt with cross-border processing, but not at national level by the police. it was also too loose, leading to a very wide range of interpretation at member state level, the result being that some member states had high data protection standards while others had very low ones. of course the commission had no implementing rules to ensure a common approach. as the commissioner pointed out, with the advent of the lisbon treaty – and obviously the development of the internet and the way the world has moved on since – it needs to be updated. parliament itself would have preferred this single instrument but can live with the commission’s proposals – a regulation and a directive. however, we are concerned about a number of aspects, particularly in relation to the lack of urgency at council level to deal with the directive. there seems to be certain movement on the regulation, but not enough on the directive. i think for that reason we would ask the council to bring forward a roadmap for how they are going to deal with it and also to ensure there is enough flexibility at member state level not to have a dramatic rise in terms of standards in one and a dramatic drop in another. if we do that, we can make progress. my final point is that i am pleased to say that the irish prime minister approached me last saturday week saying that during the irish presidency they would have this as one of their priorities. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i think that is a very important point, because we have to have consistency right across the board. while i cannot predict what the council is going to do, i think it is important that we take all these matters into consideration, and particularly that the council should show some urgency regarding this matter so that we can get it completed, particularly during this mandate. i fear that if it is not completed by the end of next year, with elections pending in 2014, it might be very difficult to make much progress if there is too much left to be done in 2014.
rapporteur. − technical conservation measures are rules which our fishermen throughout the union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition. the purpose of imposing these measures or rules on our fishermen is very simple: it is to lay down how and where fishing activity should be carried out and to ensure that it is done in a sustainable manner. ultimately, these measures are designed to ensure that our fish stocks are exploited in a sustainable way and that the eco-systems in which the fish live are well maintained. however, in order for these measures to work effectively and to deliver on stated objectives, these measures must be formulated and designed in tune with the evolving nature of fisheries management and, importantly, must be based on scientific advice. following my appointment as rapporteur by the committee on fisheries, i prepared my draft report under time constraints, bearing in mind that the commission proposal was published in late june and the existing transitional measures expire on 31 december next. there were limited opportunities to fully debate the report in committee, which was unfortunate. i am therefore very grateful for the close collaboration and support i received from the shadow rapporteurs and, indeed, the entire committee. the report approved by the committee on 10 october included several key changes which specifically amended poorly conceived – and i believe inappropriate – technical measures. these amendments are fully justified and supported by clear scientific advice. i then received a mandate from the committee to negotiate with the council presidency. the trialogue negotiations concluded following an informal exchange when the trialogue went into recess. after the trialogue meeting, a misunderstanding developed concerning the agreement. the shadows met and a joint response by the shadows was sent to the presidency, in which we outlined our red-lined, but reasonable, areas. i am pleased that we now have an agreement in place which serves the best interests of our fishermen, coastal communities, sustainable fisheries and the consumer. the majority of the amendments contained in the agreement relate to the ices area via, which is located on the north-west coast of scotland and the north-west coast of ireland where, in 2009, a cod recovery plan was introduced. regrettably, the measures for cod recovery have caused major difficulties for fishermen off the coast of my own country by stopping traditional fisheries which, although they do not target cod, have of course suffered as a result of this. i would like to take this opportunity to outline several key aspects of the agreement. the agreement permits the use of gill nets and tangle nets south of 59° north within the defined area for cod recovery. the gear type is both eco-friendly and sustainable, and will not target cod in the defined area. this means that small inshore and island fishermen from the north-west will no longer have to steam 50 miles into treacherous atlantic waters in small vessels. the fishermen will be able to target lesser spotted dogfish and haddock with gill and tangle nets within three miles of the coastline for ten days per month. lesser spotted dogfish are not caught for human consumption, but can be used as bait for lobster and crab pots. the agreement removed the by-catch provision for haddock and whiting, which is causing a major discarding problem. it will now once again be possible to have targeted fishery for these three species. the agreement also ensures that non-irish boats will be prevented from fishing in the greencastle box, which is closed from october to march each year. i have a few other points to make but will take the opportunity to do so later in the debate.
a uachtaráin, nuair a toghadh mise mar fheisire trí bliana ó shin ní raibh mórán cur amach agam ar an gcomhbheartas iascaigh ná ar fhadhbanna a bhaineann leis an tionscal iascaireachta. ach anois tar éis taighde agus cruinnithe – agus tar éis éisteacht leis na díospóireachtaí – tuigim i bhfad níos fearr anois é. i must say that tonight’s discussion has been the most positive and optimistic of those i have attended regarding fisheries. i am particularly delighted with the emphasis being put on the need to preserve coastal communities and small-scale fisheries, to maintain stocks and ecosystems, to base our decisions on up-to-date scientific advice and to end the despicable practice of discards. the commissioner has made the point – which is true – that you cannot monitor all fishing vessels but, given that most of the damage is being done by large-scale vessels, would she not consider making resources available to monitor those vessels, because finning, mincing and flag hopping are all part and parcel of what many of the large-scale vessels do? would she also consider introducing more draconian measures which would act as a deterrent as well?
rapporteur. − mr president, while i would have appreciated having the opportunity to refer to the other reports, time does not permit me to do so. i want to congratulate the other rapporteurs and wish them well. i want to thank the commissioner for her kind words, bearing in mind the time constraints; we had a very short period of time to prepare a report and bring it through the committee. i am very grateful for the broad general support which there is for the technical measures report. this agreement provides for a review, which i had hoped to refer to earlier, of the defined area for cod recovery by 1 january 2015. this means that the line may be removed in its entirety – of course following scientific assessment, and that is all important. the mesh sizes used within the defined area will also be reviewed, so it is important that we review, from year to year or bi-annually, the report approved by the committee. it also proposes the introduction of a new and appropriate mesh size for small pelagic species. the express intention of the committee was to avoid the same problem we had some two years ago in relation to boarfish, where it was necessary for parliament to introduce a specific amendment to allow that important lucrative fishery to exist. as a result of that, boarfish is a very sustainable and well-managed fishery. however, the council refused to support the amendment and, as a result, other, non-eu countries may take advantage of this and build up historical catches. the whole purpose of the amendment was to enable the development of new fisheries into the future which, of course, is respecting un fao guidelines on how new and developing fisheries should be dealt with in detail. last year the council approved the declaration on the development of fisheries. hopefully the council, at the december meeting, could do the same and allow us to concentrate on other fisheries.
mr president, i would very much appreciate it if you would agree at this late stage to accept my request for a roll-call vote on amendment 32 and again on the amended proposal. the reasons for this will become clearer before the final vote.
mr president, the committee on fisheries believes that we, as a parliament, have no alternative but to stand up to the unacceptable behaviour of the agriculture and fisheries council. successive presidents, for the last three years, have completely ignored the role of the european parliament as a co-legislator in matters relating to multiannual plans. multiannual plans, as we all know, are a pillar of the common fisheries policy. these plans are vitally important in terms of protecting fisheries resources and ensuring the livelihood of communities dependent on fisheries. so we, as a directly elected body of the european union, and the council of ministers together share a joint responsibility as co-legislators. the council of ministers must wake up to the responsibilities and respect the treaty of lisbon and the citizens of the european union. so on behalf of the fisheries committee, i request the final vote to be deferred under rule 177(4) of the rules of procedure. i would hope that this may be the first of many reports on which the parliament may have to take a firm stance against the council until they are willing to enter into meaningful talks so as to resolve this dispute which has been going on for three years. (applause)
a uachtaráin, bhíomar anseo aréir ag déanamh díospóireachta ar na moltaí go léir a bhaineann le hiascaireacht go dtí beagnach meánoíche. bhí an-díospóireacht againn agus thug sé árdú croí domsa go raibh na moltaí seo an-dáiríre agus an-phraiticúil. ba mhaith liom, go háirithe, mo chomhghleacaí éireannach an tuasal ó gallchóir a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair a dhéanann sé. is saghas ollaimh iascaireachta é ach is trua an rud é nach rabhamar in ann glacadh leis na moltaí go háirithe an vóta deiridh mar nach rabhamar ag fáil comhoibriú ceart dáiríre ón gcomhairle agus bhí an ceart ag an uasal ó gallchóir an vóta deiridh a chur ar ceal. táim ag súil leis an gcomhoibriú agus go mbeimid in ann na moltaí maithe seo a chur i bhfeidhm.
mr president, i voted for this report as it proposes closing the loopholes in the present legislation and ensuring that all sharks caught by eu vessels anywhere in the world are landed with their fins naturally attached, without exception. the inhumane practice of finning should have absolutely no place in modern fishing. it involves the removal shark fins at sea and throwing the shark back into the sea where it generally suffers a cruel and painful death. unfortunately, this practice has been increasing due to insatiable thirst for profits of major multinational fishing corporations and has gone largely unmanaged and unmonitored. it is estimated that 100 million sharks are killed for their fins annually. this practice has a devastating impact on shark populations around the world, threatening the stability of marine ecosystems and damaging the fishing industry in many poorer countries. it is vital that this barbaric practice is ended and that the fishing of sharks is regulated internationally.
mr president, first of all i want to welcome the ceasefire that was announced in gaza yesterday, and i call for its full implementation by both sides. this means that there should be no rockets from gaza into israel – on the one hand – but it also means that israel needs to stop its bombardment of gaza and also ensure that there are no extrajudicial assassinations by israel. but we need to ensure that the ceasefire leads to a lasting peace, otherwise we will be here again in a few months or in a few years. that is why i was particularly happy to co-sign and sponsor this motion, which sets out a roadmap for a lasting solution. it calls for an end to the gaza blockade, and it reiterates eu support for the two-state solution, recognising palestine’s right to statehood and also acknowledging that israel has the right to live peacefully within its borders. i was particularly pleased with the vote today recognising palestine’s bid for un membership. i call on all eu member states to acknowledge the vote in the european parliament, and to speak with one voice and support the palestinian bid for observer status in the un.
mr president, for eight days the people of gaza suffered under a horrific israeli onslaught. it took the lives of almost 150 palestinians, the majority of whom were civilians, and a number of whom were children. from the nobel peace prize winners – obama and the eu – we had the usual support for the right-wing israeli narrative that this was about israel’s right to protect its population, as a statement of the foreign affairs council of the eu declared. this onslaught had nothing to do with the security of ordinary israelis and everything to do with the interests of that right-wing israeli establishment seeking to increase support in advance of january’s general election and seeking to disrupt the attempt to get un recognition for palestine. i welcome the announcement of the ceasefire, which does mean that the people of gaza could sleep last night without bombardment, but a lasting peace will only be achieved when there is an end to the national oppression of the palestinian people and fundamental socialist change in the region in the interests of all working-class people. it is the palestinian masses struggling from below, linking up with israeli workers and poor, who can achieve that.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo chomh maith agus molaim an rapóirtéir tunne kelam as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aige san obair thábhachtach, chasta agus chonspóideach seo.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, those who consider or claim that the human rights situation in kazakhstan is improving should take note of the statement issued two days ago by the official representative of the prosecutor-general. in this statement they accuse the unregistered opposition of extremist actions and say they filed a lawsuit to ban them, together with a host of independent and media outlets such as the newspapers respublika and vzglyad, the satellite television station k+ and dozens of associated online news sites. it is clear that the situation in kazakhstan with regard to human rights has gone from bad to worse. with the effective banning of opposition parties and the media, kazakhstan is most likely to see another wave of arrests followed by unfair trials and long prison sentences. this is untolerable and unacceptable. in addition, vladimir kozlov, the leader of the opposition party alga who was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison, lost his appeal three days ago. human rights watch had declared that kozlov’s conviction is unsound given that the charges against him are vague and overbroad and are fundamentally incompatible with human rights treaties kazakhstan has signed. in addition, vadim kuramshin, the well known human rights defender, faces up to fourteen years in prison. i make an urgent call here today for the immediate suspension of the negotiations on the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement unless there is a profound and proven change in the human rights situation in kazakhstan. this in my view must include an unconditional amnesty for all prisoners convicted on political grounds, including vladimir kozlov and vadim kuramshin. i call on the international trade union movement and civil society organisations to echo this call and to put pressure on european institutions and on catherine ashton, who will visit kazakhstan next week, to make it crystal clear that there can be no business usual with the nazarbayev regime. it is not acceptable that the eu’s economic and strategic interests in kazakhstan’s energy resources take priority over the deteriorating human rights situation.
a uachtaráin, is é seo an óráid dheireanach domsa ar maidin. tá áthas orm arís cuidiú leis na moltaí seo agus feicim go raibh 474 ina bhfabhar as 532 agus tá sé sin an-suimiúil agus an-sásúil. this problem is a most important aspect of fishing because it deals with the small-scale fisheries, and these are the people that need most protection under the cfp. they do need a lot of protecting, particularly in the future, in relation to the way they are being discriminated against, especially by the big factory ships which are engaging in practices such as mincing and in not declaring their real catch when then come to shore. this is discriminating against smaller fishermen, it is obviously depleting stocks and it cannot be tolerated. i certainly look forward to giving the smaller fisheries a better shake into the future.
in writing. − over 80% of the irish fleet are small boats under 15 metres in length fishing mainly inshore and from small coastal islands. such small scale fisheries are of huge importance to fishing communities throughout ireland. there is often no source of alternative employment for these communities. i fully support all the recommendations contained in the ferreira report.
author. − mr president, the tragic death of sattar beheshti as a result of brutal torture in the infamous evin prison following his arrest for so-called ‘actions against national security’ on social networks and facebook is, unfortunately, not an isolated case at all. according to human rights watch, at least 15 people detained for exercising their basic rights have died in custody or as a result of injuries from alleged mistreatment or neglect since 2009. added to that is the massive number of activists who have been executed on trumped-up charges. some estimates put that number at 660 people in 2011. this repression and brutality needs to end now. of course, this repression and brutality also should not be used as a pretext for military action against iran. the international working class and anti-war movement must stand against any military action or sanctions against the iranian people, while at the same time supporting their struggle to release all political prisoners, end state torture, end the death penalty and overthrow this regime.
mr president, not for the first time, and i fear not for the last time, we are once again discussing the appalling situation in iran. this is a country that is run not just by dictators, but by what could honestly be described as savages. they have no respect for international law and they have no respect for their own people, whom they arrest and murder almost willy-nilly if they do not agree with them. this is a country that wants its citizens to be yes-men and yes-women. if they are not, they are in grave danger. the case of mr beheshti is a case in point. he was arrested, tortured and murdered and his family was told to come to collect him. it is time for the international community to get tough with iran and to impose sanctions that will have an impact on the regime and force it at least to respect international law and fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am pleased that we are discussing burma today, because on the one hand it gives us an opportunity to acknowledge the progress which as been made there in going from basically a military, authoritarian state towards democracy. while everything is not perfect, i think the visit there by president obama was in itself an indication that in the broader sense burma’s progress has been recognised worldwide. that is important. on the other hand, there are difficulties, of course, particularly in rakhine state. the rohingyas need to be given citizenship, because you cannot have a stateless group within a state. you will never get solutions if that situation continues. they also need outside help. i come from ireland, where we had a similar situation in northern ireland: it was seen as catholic versus protestant. the role played by the european union and the united states was vital. we can play the same role in burma.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the situation of migrants in libya is unfortunate; many of them sided with gaddafi in the uprising of 2011 and indeed many of them may even have been sought out by gaddafi to fight on his behalf. having lost, they are in a precarious and perilous position. nevertheless, something has to be done about it and there are three things, i think, that are required: firstly, we have to try to establish a stable government, which is hopefully developing; we cannot impose it but we can certainly do a lot to help. secondly, libya has to sign up to the 1951 refugee convention. this will give them status within libya. and thirdly, where asylum seekers come to europe and elsewhere the burden must be shared. i listened to the maltese prime minister last week and very generously he said – even though it is a very small coutnry – that they would not turn back any asylum seekers. in fact, 250 asylum seekers had landed the day before; but the burden needs to be spread to all countries.
madam president, i am opposed to consenting to this free trade agreement. the abuses of human rights that are spoken about are not historical. colombia remains the most dangerous place on earth for trade unionists. this year at least 15 have already been killed. the trade union confederation, cut, recorded 146 threats to the lives of workers this year. add to that the systematic abuse of the rights of human rights defenders, of journalists and of indigenous communities, and you have a clear picture of a government that shows blatant disregard for human rights, democratic rights and workers’ rights. justice is a rare commodity in colombia for many victims of human rights abuses, with rates of impunity of over 90%. that could become even worse with the passing of a proposed constitutional reform – a reform which is supported by president santos – that would further extend military jurisdiction. in addition, there is a new study which demonstrates that the free trade agreement would expose the eu to increasing risks of money laundering and tax evasion, deregulating some capital controls. this action plan that has been spoken of is operating here as a fig leaf for some meps to be able to say that the box is ticked, we have looked after human rights, now we can proceed with this free trade agreement. there has correctly been a major movement by the trade unions in europe and in colombia against this agreement. it was a disgrace that, in the committee on international trade, the social democrats who have historic, traditional ties to the workers’ movement – voted in favour of this agreement. i would hope they do differently tomorrow but i am not confident about the majority of them. similarly we have a recommendation from the irish government for irish meps to vote in favour of this – yet another betrayal of the labour movement by the irish labour party. for these reasons, our group tomorrow will propose to refer this back to committee. we would encourage those who put workers’ rights and human rights above the profits of big business to support our proposal.
madam president, i am aware of the concerns raised by trade unionists over the safety of their members in colombia. it was on my initiative last year that the international trade union confederation was invited to address the committee on development on human rights and, specifically, the murder of trade unionists in colombia, in the course of which we were informed of terrible incidents of violence against trade unionists. this meeting helped to concentrate minds in the colombian administration, and the attorney-general and ministers in the colombian government came here to listen to us members of parliament and our concerns. i am informed that, between april 2012 and august 2012, 128 new trade unions have been successfully established in colombia. i hope that is the case. additionally i am informed that land restitution law returns land seized by illegal armed groups to peasants and is a huge progressive development in the region. i am glad to see that the governments of colombia and peru have made specific commitments to implement human rights clauses and have presented roadmaps to the european parliament, which we will need to monitor closely. giving consent to this trade agreement could be seen as a means of promoting continued progress towards better labour standards and improved human rights conditions in both countries. the idea behind this resolution is that trade between the parties provides a means of improving the quality of life of the people of each country, especially the poorest. it is a matter of judgement to decide whether we have made sufficient progress to now move ahead and allow this to go forward. will this be in the better interests of the working people and the unemployed in colombia and peru, or should we stick to the line we held last year? on balance, if the commissioner gives the undertakings which we require, i am prepared to consider voting for this agreement, but i want the commissioner to be firm in his commitment that we will monitor human rights and trade union rights in these areas. it is not acceptable that people who organise the poorest of people in these countries should in any way be terrorised or treated in a violent manner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr mitchell, if it is the case that the situation is improving significantly on the ground in terms of trade unionists’ rights, well then why are all of the trade union organisations – the cut in colombia itself, the tuca from america, etuc representing the trade unions across europe, ituc representing international trade unions, ictu representing the trade unions in ireland – saying that we should vote against this agreement, that we should not go ahead with this agreement? should we not listen to them as being the representatives of workers in europe, in america and in colombia, and listen to what they have to say about it?
blue-card answer. – madam president, it never seems to astound me that mr murphy has a problem for every solution and it is always a problem which works to his advantage and not necessarily to the advantage of poor people or people who are suffering human rights abuses. i was the person who organised for the international trade union confederation to appear on the first human rights issue at the development committee, as coordinator on that committee. if i believe that this best assists the interests of trade unions and workers, i will vote for it. if i do not, i will not. but i will do what i believe to be right and in the interests of people, and there does come a time when we have to say: is the carrot better than the stick? if i can be assured by the commissioner that he will ensure that these human rights provisions are fully overseen and applied, then i would be prepared to consider changing my position from the one i took last year.
mr president, as we look forward to our christmas turkey i want to refer to a serious problem in turkey production. in ireland turkey production has fallen from 3.8 million birds a year in 2005 to under one million in 2011 as many producers are struggling to survive, and this year has been particularly challenging with a bad harvest and increasing food costs. local and traditional producers are being squeezed out of the market and rural businesses are suffering. the issue here is two-fold. farmers need a fair return for fair work and for products produced to the highest standards, and consumers have a right to clarity and information about where their food is coming from. it is clear that if consumers want to support their rural producers and buy local they must inform themselves, ask questions of their butchers. however, we have a responsibility to ensure that labelling is clear and informative. while it is not mandatory at present to label country of origin, there is legislation coming down the track in 2014 which will make it mandatory to label imported products, including poultry, with its country of origin. it is essential that this report addresses the joint concerns of local producers and consumers if we intend to have a fair and equitable internal market in the eu.
a uachtaráin, cosúil leis na feisirí eile ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an gcoimisinéir borg. tá súil agam go ndéanfaidh sé an-jab agus tá a fhios agam go ndéanfaidh sé amhlaidh. ba mhaith liom an rapóirtéir a mholadh as ucht a thuarascála atá os ár gcomhair anseo inniu. tá súil agam go n-éireoidh linn vóta maith a fháil amárach agus go ndéanfar beart dá réir. when we talk about smes, i always feel it is something of a misnomer. ‘small and medium’ does not strike you as being big. in actual fact we are talking about 99% of businesses in europe, so we are talking about nearly all companies. for that reason, having them working online in cross-border trading is absolutely vital, and that is why this report is so important. it would make a huge difference not just to jobs and growth but also to the quality of life of citizens if we could move the digital agenda forward. the points he makes are absolutely relevant. i myself am involved in data protection, which is one aspect of this, and i look forward to playing an important part in that.
a uachtaráin, bhíomar ag caint ar smes anseo agus na seansanna atá acu chun trádáil taobh amuigh den aontas eorpach. cuidím leis na moltaí atá ag an rapóirtéir agus tá súil agam gur féidir linn iad a chur i bhfeidhm. it is an extraordinary statistic that, in this era when people are travelling all over the world, 87% of european companies do not trade outside the european union. there is something wrong. the rapporteur points out that one of the reasons is a lack of information. that is easy to rectify, and it is up to us to do it. the second point he makes is the lack of finance for people going global – that if we are to use the instruments we have, such as the eib, the eif and credit guarantee schemes, etc., to help companies avail of the enormous opportunities that are there, particularly now that we are developing so many free trade agreements, it is important to tie into those the aim of encouraging companies in europe to trade and avail of these opportunities. we have the 2020 targets. one of them should be to have 20% of european companies trading outside the european union by 2020.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom comhghairdeas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir arís. cé go bhfuil sé déanach, tá an t-ábhar seo tábhachtach mar baineann sé le saoirse an duine – an rud is tábhachtaí ar fad i saol aon duine. freedom, regardless of what type of freedom we are talking about, is fundamental for all human beings, particularly with the growth of the internet where in recent years we have seen the upside of it and the downside of it. it is good that it is recognised as a fundamental right for people in europe, but we must try and get that established right across the globe. the downside is that we see cyber bullying, cyber attacks on businesses and on national states, and of course we see the control that fundamentalist regimes in particular try to exercise over their people. all this has to be guarded against, and the european union has a very important role to play in ensuring that there is digital freedom as part of our eu foreign policy. that is very important for us.
madam president, yesterday, after 60 years of endeavour, we got the nobel peace prize, which was a wonderful achievement for us. today, after more than 30 years, we have what you can describe as ‘a unitary patent’. some people are not happy with it – understandably maybe – but commissioner barnier put his finger on it when he described it as a ‘dynamic’ compromise. of course the proof of the pudding will be in the eating. if it improves competitiveness, then obviously it is a good thing. if it means more patents are registered, that would prove obviously that it is successful. my colleague, mrs gallo, pointed out that we have only 60 000 patents per year in the european union. if that increases, then clearly we are making progress. of course we would like to see spain and italy coming in. i would ask commissioner barnier whether he sees this happening and if so, when, and what efforts are being made to make it happen?
mr president, the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises across the eu, including over 230 000 in my own country, ireland, are indeed the backbone of the european economy. they account for 98% of all firms and over a hundred million jobs. in ireland they account for over two-thirds of all private-sector jobs. smes have proved their worth in the past: 85% of new jobs created in the eu between 2002 and 2010 were in fact in smes, yet only 13% of smes are active outside the eu. the integration of these firms into the global economy is a key part of the eu 2020 strategy. this resolution has some very positive proposals to help resolve the difficulties smes face when trying to find out more about third-country markets and accessing capital to break into these markets such as investment funds for smes, european business mentoring schemes, eu export/import facilities, etc. i urge the commission and the member states to take up these proposals and implement them without delay.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt ní amháin don tuarascáil seo ach do na cinn eile freisin a bhaineann le smes. glacadh leis an gceann seo le móramh mór: 577 i bhfabhar as 670 a vótáil ar fad. ach anois tá an dúshlán againn na coinníollacha a chruthú i dtreo agus go mbeidh lucht gnó in ann an deis a thapú. o create the conditions that are necessary for smes to take advantage of the opportunities that are now there in terms of trading cross-border or internationally, i would highlight three things. firstly, an information campaign to ensure smes are aware of the opportunities that now exist. secondly, high-speed broadband needs to be rolled out across the european union, otherwise these opportunities will never be available. thirdly, we need to create a safe online payment system, so that both consumers and businesses will feel confident in trading cross-border and internationally.
mr president, i think commissioner barnier put it very well today when he was responding to the result of the vote here in parliament. he said that for decades we have been trying to get agreement in relation to a unitary patent; today we have done that. as he pointed out, we now have three-way agreement: the commission, the council and parliament. this is a real success story: success number one from the point of view of competitiveness, success number two from the point of view of growth, and success number three from the point of view of jobs. as the previous speaker said, the cost of obtaining a patent up to now has been so prohibitive that it is a real burden, particularly on the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. if you look at the cost, it can cost up to eur 20 000, with eur 14 000 of that sum being spent on translations alone. by comparison with the united states: eur 1 850. so today we have done a good day’s work and i do not have any doubt whatsoever that, as a result of the decision overwhelmingly endorsed, we will see jobs flowing from today’s decision.
a uachtaráin, cosúil le mo chomhghleacaí jim higgins fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo agus bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt di. gan dabht ar bith is lá maith é don aontas eorpach. we have been speaking a lot about the single european market and the need to complete it. i think today’s decision will go a long way towards making that happen. there is no doubt that we need a unitary patent within the european union. this has taken a long time and now we are getting there, albeit under enhanced cooperation. two countries have opted out, although it is significant that there were some dissenting voices from within those countries regarding the decisions in question, and the sooner they opt in, the better for everybody. nevertheless there is an opportunity now for smes in particular to patent their products within the european union, and that needs to be done. at present there are three times more patents being registered in china and four times more in the us, and the reasons are pretty obvious. thankfully, today’s decision will change that.
mr president, i voted against the eu-colombia/peru free trade agreement mostly because i feel it is premature. while i understand that progress has been made in developing a road map, i share the concerns of many of the trade union movements which have contacted me – etuc and the irish congress of trade unions, in particular – and indeed many other ngos which are very concerned about the human rights and environmental protection issues. issues such as freedom of association for workers, an end to impunity for violence against trade unionists and, indeed, failure to recommend ilo recommendations, are all issues that have been brought to my attention. while i do understand that commitments have been made in this regard and that a monitoring group is to be created, which is very welcome, i would have preferred to have deferred the report until such time as we could have real and measurable tangible progress in these areas. i understand that the proposal has actually been adopted at this stage and i look forward to the strict implementation of the safeguards that have been built into the resolution.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on this report. as the rapporteur noted, sadly, in the 21st century, women still do not have the same opportunities in life as men, earning on average 17% less than their male counterparts. as a result they are often less well prepared for old age. the incidence of debilitating diseases is also much higher in older women than in men of the same age, despite their greater longevity. the protection of women as they age must form part of a wider european strategy on aging. in september 2011, dublin hosted the first international conference on building age-friendly cities, from which the dublin declaration was launched. this declaration calls for new thinking in practice on promoting the quality of life and well-being, valuing the contribution of older people and removing the barriers which limit or inhibit their choice and ability to live life to the full. the declaration also reiterates the world health organisation’s recommendation on the need to recognise gender aspects of aging and develop solutions to meeting the varying needs of women as they age. i also welcome the fact that the rapporteur took into account the psychological issues of women, particularly many older women living alone. i support the report and look forward to action in this area as part of the legacy of the 2012 european year of active aging.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála féintionscnaimh seo toisc go gcuirtear aghaidh inti ar dhá cheann de na príomhbhacainní a bhíonn ann d’fiontair bheaga agus mheanmhéide (fbmanna) sa lá inniu: maoiniú a fháil agus an t-easnamh atá ann ó thaobh idirnáisiúnú de. is iad fbmanna an ae a chruthaíonn 75% de phoist na hearnála príobháidí agus is iad a chruthaigh timpeall 80% de phoist nua an ae le cúig bliana anuas. dá bhrí sin, ní mór go dtabharfaí tús áite i mbeartas an ae do fbmanna. tá 23 mhilliún fbm ag feidhmiú i margadh aonair an ae, ach níl ach 25% díobh ag feidhmiú lasmuigh dá mballstát dúchasach agus gan ach 13% a bhfuil gnó onnmhairithe acu i margaí lasmuigh den ae. tá na deacrachtaí atá ann maidir le heolas a fháil faoi mhargaí agus deiseanna trádála eachtrannacha agus maidir leis an easpa maoinithe ag cur isteach ar chumas fbmanna céimeanna tosaigh a ghlacadh ar an margadh idirnáisiúnta agus, dá bhrí sin, ar chumas fáis na hearnála. chuige sin, tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le feabhas a chur ar an eolas atá ar fáil go náisiúnta agus san ae do fbmanna agus do mhionfhiontair faoi dheiseanna maoinithe agus faoi ionstraimí maoinithe agus trádála.
in writing. − the principal reason for the crisis in smes is the decline in domestic demand brought about by the recession, worsened by the implementation of austerity policies. tapping into a global market is not a realistic solution for the vast majority of smes, and the global nature of the recession makes it even less viable. the real way to maintain jobs in smes is through ending austerity policies and redeveloping the economy through public investment and public works programmes which would stimulate demand in the economy and therefore assist smes. access to credit is a huge problem for smes and msmes. despite the nationalisation of large chunks of the banking sector, the banking system is still run on the basis of profit; banks are therefore concentrating on strengthening their balance sheets and are cutting back on lending. instead the banks should be run in the interests of ordinary people, including small businesses, and provide credit to these businesses. this report does not sufficiently highlight the central role of austerity policies in the crisis facing smes, but rather supports the idea that companies and economies need to become more competitive and export their way out of the crisis. the report also supports ppps; for these reasons i voted against the report.
i scríbhinn. − bunaíodh an ghníomhaireacht eorpach um shábháilteacht mhuirí (emsa) mar fhreagairt ar an truailliú a rinneadh in ndiaidh thaisme an olathancaeir erika. is í feidhm na gníomhaireachta ná slándáil agus sábháilteacht mhuirí a áirithiú agus truailliú ó longa a chosc, trí mhonatóireacht agus measúnú a dhéanamh ar chur i bhfeidhm na ndlíthe eorpacha cuí. baineann cuid shuntasach d’obair na gníomhaireachta le comhairle a chur ar an gcoimisiún agus ar na ballstáit. is eagraíocht éifeachtach fheidhmiúil í a shábhálann airgead ar na ballstáit mar gheall ar an mbarainneacht scála a bhíonn i gceist ar an leibhéal eorpach. cuireann an rialachán nua tuilleadh feabhais ar ról an emsa toisc go mbronnann sé cumhachtaí breise uirthi; mar shampla an cumas tubaistí comhshaoil a chosc agus a chomhrac, an cumas dul i ngleic le píoráideacht mhara, feabhas a chur ar an oiliúint a bhíonn ar fáil d’fharraigigh agus comhoibriú a fhorbairt le tíortha comharsanachta.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which i believe will be of benefit to irish and european innovators by protecting their inventions and enforcing patents across the eu. in supporting this initiative, i hope and expect that reductions in the cost of patenting inventions will strongly benefit european enterprises, in particular smes and research centres. the european commission estimates that this ‘unitary patent’ will cut by more than eur 30 000 the average cost of having patent protection across the eu. a unified patent court with specialised judges will also be established under this proposal. following parliament’s vote of approval, i am pleased to report that the incoming irish presidency of the eu will make the necessary preparations to enable the 26 participating member states to sign the agreement on the unified patent court in early 2013.
in writing. − there have been concerns about the human rights situation in both colombia and peru. last year the international trade union confederation was invited to address the issue of violence and terrorism against trade unionists, at my request. since then progressive steps have been made to improve the internal situation in tackling human rights violations, the rule of law, political stability and ensuring free and fair elections. the laws on restitution of land and the increased protection of trade unionists have been significantly progressive. and i am reassured by the commissioner’s assurances that the preferences afforded under the agreement can be suspended if human rights abuses continue. at this time, we need to recognise that the carrot may be better than the stick and allow this free trade agreement to proceed in order to further progress the human rights situation in both countries and to enhance economic benefits for all parties involved.
in writing. − i supported this report because of the inescapable statistical reality: in europe, estimates show that, on average, a woman lives six years longer than a man, but often in poorer conditions in terms of health and personal economy. research shows that while some seven million people are affected by particular forms of mental illness, almost five million of these are women. i applaud my colleague roberta angelilli, who as rapporteur has consistently highlighted these and other important facts. for example, she has noted that it is not sufficiently well-known that, on average, cardiovascular disease affects more women than men. this resolution is a gentle, but forceful, reminder to eu member states that these important health statistics need to be adequately incorporated into evolving healthcare systems, so that we can provide better, more targeted and more innovative solutions to ensure the healthy and active ageing of our continent. as the rapporteur has observed: ‘the key words are “prevention” and “information”’.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil sé fíorthábhachtach go rachaimis i ngleic le bagairt na frithsheasmhachta in aghaidh ábhair fhrithmhiocróbaigh (faaf). tá an scéal níos measa anois mar go bhfuil frithsheasmhacht in aghaidh ildrugaí le haithint in orgánaigh bhaictéaracha áirithe, rud a chuireann isteach ar an rogha do chóir leighis do dhaoine agus ainmhithe araon. tacaímid le moltaí na tuarascála maidir le haghaidh a thabhairt ar an ualach breise atá ar chórais sláinte na heorpa de bharr galraithe ó faaf. tá 2.5 milliún lá sa bhreis á gcaitheamh in ospidéil an ae, na hiorua agus na híoslainne mar thoradh ar ghalruithe atá frithsheasmhach ar dhrugaí. vótálamar mír 28 a bhaint amach, áfach, toisc a thábhachtaí atá bealach na beatha ainmhí: ní bhíonn gá faoin gcóras sin ainmhithe a láimhseáil, seachnaíonn sé strus agus cuireann sé leas ainmhithe chun cinn. ós rud é gur faoi oideas amháin a dháiltear na cógais beatha ainmhí uile agus go bhfuil oideas tréidliachta riachtanach faoin reachtaíocht reatha (airteagal 67(aa) de threoir 2001/82/ce arna leasú ag treoir 2004/28/ce) nuair is ainmhí a tháirgíonn bia atá i gceist, creidimid go bhfuil na bearta cuí cearta i bhfeidhm cheana féin chun a chinntiú go n-úsáidtear i gceart cógais tréidliachta.
i scríbhinn. – mar gheall ar an éiginnteacht a bhain le dúsháinn an bhuiséid agus an tábhacht a bhaineann le buiséad 2013, go háirithe i gcomhthéacs an chéad chreata airgeadais ilbhliantúil eile, fearaim fáilte fhaichilleach roimh an gcomhaontú a baineadh amach. is cúis aiféala, áfach, go mbeidh na híocaíochtaí a bheidh á dtabhairt níos ísle ná mar a bheidh ag teastáil. is i lán-fhios an easnaimh sin a glacadh an cinneadh. bhí an chuma ar na scéal i 2012 gurb iad na cláir sin a théann chun leasa mhuintir na heorpa, cosúil le erasmus agus cláir struchtúracha, is mó a bhí buailte ag an easnamh. níl sé ceart nó cóir go bhfuil na ballstáit ag cinneadh ar chláir eorpacha a leathnú ach ag an am céanna go mbaineann siad díobh an maoiniú agus na cláir ag teacht chun deiridh. tá pobail agus muintir na heorpa ag brath i gcónaí ar na cláir sin agus is náireach é éiginnteacht na gceannairí eorpacha. beidh iarmhairt ar chúrsaí na bliana seo chugainn ag an gcinneadh gan ach dhá thrian de na billí a íoc i mbliana agus tá an chosúlacht ar an scéal nach bhfuil á dhéanamh ach cinntí deacra maidir le buiséid eorpacha a chur ar an méar fhada.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom béim a chur ar chomh tábhachtach agus atá an tuarascáil seo do sheirbhísí ar an talamh san earnáil eitlíochta san eoraip. ba mhaith liom a chur in iúl daoibh cé chomh tábhachtach atá sé vótáil amárach chun an tuarascáil seo a sheoladh ar ais go dtí an coiste um iompar. tá an tuarascáil seo tábhachtach ionas go mbeidh iomaíochas ann ar fud na heorpa, agus mar thoradh air sin go mbeidh fiúntas níos fearr ar fáil do na haerlínte agus, dá réir sin, do na paisinéirí. nílimid ag caint anseo amháin ar léirscaoileadh na hearnála seirbhísí ar an talamh, táimid ag caint chomh maith ar na híoschaighdeáin atá curtha ar fáil do mhuintir na heorpa ó thaobh an check-in agus an cúram a dhéantar dá gcuid bagáiste. nílimid ag caint ar chor ar bith ar léirscaoileadh iomlán; nílimid ach ag iarraidh trí sholáthraí seirbhísí ar an talamh don soláthar seirbhísí. táimid ag caint freisin ar chomh híseal atá caighdeán oiliúna na n-oibrithe san earnáil seo agus an chosaint atá ann do na hoibrithe a bhfuilimid ag caint inniu orthu ó thaobh a gcuid coinníollacha oibre de. ar deireadh, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir artur zasada as an obair iontach atá déanta aige. iarraim oraibh go léir vótáil amárach chun an tuarascáil seo a sheoladh ar ais go dtí an coiste um iompar.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur and indeed to all of the shadows who worked on this difficult but important report. if i could draw attention to paragraph 1, i think this sums up all our concerns and stresses that the problem is poor compliance and implementation of existing laws in the member states. so while it is easy to call for more legislation, i am afraid that if existing rules are not being complied with, it begs the question as to why we would lay down more rules when there are problems currently. i also would ask, in this era of austerity, whether the member states will reduce the resources on inspection of animal transportation because they do not have the resources to do it. this is something which the commission needs to look carefully at. the second issue – and lots of colleagues spoke about this – is the problem of the concentration of slaughterhouses. mrs jeggle and others addressed this issue. we should ask the commission to report to us on the consequences of slaughterhouse concentration – not just on animal welfare but also on competition for producers. i think we should do that within this mandate so that we can look at how we address this very serious issue.
mr president, the new slots regulation introduces a framework for the secondary trading of slots for the first time. i would like to draw attention to a particular situation for ireland. aer lingus currently owns 23 of the slots at heathrow. given the increasing congestion at heathrow, the value of these slots is likely to increase in the future. at the moment the commission is in the process of examining the latest ryanair bid for aer lingus. i would be concerned that the entry into force of this regulation would encourage ryanair, if it is successful in its bid, to dispose of aer lingus’ heathrow slots without any consideration of ireland’s strategic interests. the slots regulation has to include sufficient safeguard clauses to guarantee vitally important connections, such as the dublin-heathrow links and also, as other speakers have said, to guarantee peripheral regions as hub airports for the same reason.
i scríbhinn. − san áireamh sa phacáiste lenar ghlac parlaimint na heorpa go foirmeálta tá buiséad don bhliain 2013, lena bhfuil eur 132.8 billiún d’íocaíochtaí agus eur 150.9 billiún de ghealltanais i gceist. is ionann le 0.99 % d’ollioncam náisiúnta (oin) an ae i bhfoirm íocaíochtaí agus 1.12 % d’oin an ae i bhfoirm gealltanas é an buiséad seo. is laghdú é seo ar bhuiséad na bliana 2012 (na buiséid leasaitheacha 1-6 san áireamh). is 1.05 % agus 1.15 % faoi seach a bhí i gceist ansin. glacadh le buiséad leasaitheach na bliana 2012 le 514 vóta in aghaidh 68, agus 82 a staon. dearbhaíodh gur glacadh le buiséad na bliana 2013 toisc nár glacadh le leasú ar bith air.
in writing. − this report responds to the commission’s report on the impact of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, which came into force in 2007. i fully support this legislation and the proper welfare of animals during transport. regulation (ec) no 1/2005 has been effective in improving standards; however, problems have been identified in relation to member state implementation and enforcement of the rules. irish hauliers and exporters have invested significantly in upgrading transporters to fully meet e welfare rules. i support the overall report but did not vote in favour of calls for an eight-hour maximum transport time. i do not support the idea of new or additional legislation. we already have legislation that is not fully implemented and this must be addressed by the member states involved and the commission. despite these reservations i supported the report in the final vote as it contains important elements relating to the welfare of animals and their protection during transport.
in writing. − this report responds to the commission's report on the impact of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, which came into force in 2007. i fully support this legislation and the proper welfare of animals during transport. regulation (ec) no 1/2005 has been effective in improving standards; however, problems have been identified in relation to member state implementation and enforcement of the rules. irish hauliers and exporters have invested significantly in upgrading transporters to fully meet e welfare rules. i support the overall report but did not vote in favour of calls for an eight hour maximum transport time. i do not support the idea of new or additional legislation. we already have legislation that is not fully implemented and this must be addressed by the member states involved and the commission. despite these reservations i supported the report in the final vote as it contains important elements relating to the welfare of animals and their protection during transport.
in writing. − this report responds to the commission’s report on the impact of regulation 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, which came into force in 2007. i fully support this legislation and the proper welfare of animals during transport. regulation 1/2005 has been effective in improving standards; however, problems have been identified in relation to member state implementation and enforcement of the rules. irish hauliers and exporters have invested significantly in upgrading transporters to fully meet welfare rules. i support the overall report but did not vote in favour of calls for an eight-hour maximum transport time. i do not support the idea of new or additional legislation. we already have legislation that is not fully implemented and this must be addressed by the member states involved and the commission. despite these reservations i supported the report in the final vote as it contains important elements relating to the welfare of animals and their protection during transport.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, how credible are the noble commitments in these reports to human rights if, after they are passed, the eu simply reverts to type, realpolitik takes over and the economic interests of big business in europe take priority in external relations? kazakhstan is a perfect example of this in action. only a few days before catherine ashton’s recent visit to kazakhstan, the regime stepped up its clampdown on the political opposition, banning opposition parties and shutting down opposition media. vadim kuramshin, one of the most outspoken human rights defenders in the country – who previously was acquitted by a jury of all but one minor charge that the regime had fabricated against him – was now sentenced to 12 years in prison on the very same charges. yet catherine ashton’s comments on the human rights situation simply amounted to box-ticking, and instead she emphasised the need for strong economic ties between businesses in kazakhstan and in the european union. those ties are dominated by multinational companies extracting, exploiting and exporting the enormous wealth of natural resources out of kazakhstan. the eu stand in relation to kazakhstan and many other countries is entirely hypocritical and a slap in the face for those human rights defenders and independent trade unions fighting for human rights, workers’ rights and democratic rights.
mr president, those who prematurely wrote off the arab spring as having turned into an arab winter have been proved wrong by the massive protests that met president morsi’s attempts to grab greater powers for himself. his actions obviously bring back haunting memories of mubarak, but the tremendous response of workers and young people show that their massive power and capacity for mobilisation has not gone away. the situation is clearly critical. attacks on democratic workers, women and trade union rights are mounting. it is only through mass movement and organisation from below that the gains won so far can be defended and the revolutionary process can be pushed forward to meet people’s aspirations for an end to poverty, homelessness and illiteracy, to achieve free education and healthcare, for pensions, for jobs and decent wages. these fundamental rights will not be conceded by capitalist politicians from the muslim brotherhood, by liberal oppositionists or from the top of the army. they all have a vested interest in preserving the economic system and defending a constitution that bases itself on the principles of private property. a fundamental struggle for democratic socialist change is necessary.
blue-card question. – could i ask whether you voted in favour of upgrading trade relations with israel two months ago in relation to the acaa agreement? do you think that words of criticism by this parliament are enough, or should something actually be done for once?
mr president, last month, as we debated the situation in gaza, there was a collective sigh of relief here when it was announced that there was a ceasefire. we expressed our strong support for the palestinian bid for un non-member-state observer status and, following that strong un vote, it was hoped that it would provide an impetus for the resumption of peace talks. but the israeli government’s decision to retaliate with plans for 3 000 new illegal settlement units in the west bank and east jerusalem poses a real and immediate barrier to peace and is to be utterly condemned. this plan would completely destroy the two-state solution repeatedly endorsed by the eu and the international community. moreover, the withholding of taxes due to the palestinian authority serves only to undermine the authority and position of president abbas, who has constantly advocated non-violent means. what is needed is clear. there should be an immediate and complete freeze of all settlement construction and expansion activities, and an end to evictions and house demolitions; the terms of the ceasefire should be fully implemented; the gaza blockade should be lifted. progress is also needed on internal palestinian reconciliation but, most importantly, there is a need for the resumption of the israeli-palestinian negotiations without pre-conditions. while i welcome monday’s council conclusions calling for bold and concrete steps towards peace, the eu and the member states must be prepared to take those bold and concrete actions. we must be visible, we must be strong, and we must implement existing eu legislation and uphold international law. otherwise i fear that our fine words and resolutions will be dismissed as just restatements of the usual platitudes. strong words need to be backed up by strong actions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i have always supported the eu position on the palestinians’ right to statehood while at the same time supporting israel’s right to live securely and freely within its borders. i would call on the palestinian reconciliation process to take account of that and i hope that we will see both palestinian reconciliation and the resumption of peace talks with the israelis without preconditions.
mr president, the representative of the high representative informed us that the message from the eu has never been clearer. but let us look at what the message from the majority in this parliament and from the european council actually is. it is only two months since this parliament voted to upgrade trade relations with israel. tomorrow it will pass a resolution criticising some of israel’s actions. the clear message seems to me to be the same as always. to the israeli government: do not worry, we will criticise you in words but will never actually do anything about it. it is simply not good enough. there should be an immediate suspension of all eu-israel agreements. with the building of these settlements surrounding east jerusalem, you have an attempt in reality to destroy any possibility of a viable palestinian state. you see a picture of what the two-state solution on the basis of the continuation of the rule of imperialism and capitalism means: it means bantustans for the palestinians. it underlines the need for a new mass popular struggle from below, the redevelopment of an intifada of the palestinian people under democratic control, fighting to defeat the right-wing israeli establishment and linking up with israeli workers and poor. only on that basis can the national oppression of the palestinians be ended and a really just solution be found with a socialist palestine and with a capitalist east jerusalem alongside a socialist israel.
mr president, i welcome this opportunity to speak about the importance of a bold, comprehensive growth and competitiveness plan to bolster the eu’s internal market and stimulate eu growth. however, these measures must go hand in hand with tackling the chronic problem of unemployment facing our young people across europe. in 2011, the youth unemployment rate for the eu overall was 22%, with two member states having a rate above 40% and several exceeding 25%. in my own member state, ireland, youth unemployment has trebled since 2008. recent figures show that in europe last year 7.5 million people aged between 18 and 29 were not in employment, education or training. the negative, if not realist, view is that for these people their earnings will never catch up with those of their peers. many face long-term unemployment, demoralisation and social problems. some economists already talk of a lost generation. for real eu growth to happen it is imperative that every action is taken at every level to address this growing social and economic problem before the effects are irreversible for this generation and they become trapped in a vicious cycle. these are young, skilled workers and graduates who deserve an opportunity to participate and contribute to the economy, who deserve to have pride and respect in their work and who deserve commitment and leadership from us as policymakers. the european youth guarantee is a welcome initiative and one that has the potential to make a difference for the generations affected. however, it is an initiative which requires leadership and commitment from member state leaders if it is to have any impact. central to this is a robust budget that will ensure that all programmes and initiatives targeted at young people deliver real results and are not just tokenistic.
mr president, i supported this report. while i believe that a financial transaction tax across all 27 member states should remain the ultimate objective, i cautiously welcome the enhanced cooperation process of 11 member states as a first step towards achieving this. an ftt across all 27 member states is the stated policy of the s&d group in the european parliament and an initiative which we have supported for a number of years. if implemented across the eu, the commission estimates that an ftt could raise eur 54 billion for the eu budget by 2020 and eur 534 million for ireland alone. an ftt would represent a source of independently generated revenue for the eu. it would ensure that banks and other financial institutions make additional contributions towards solving europe’s debt crisis and could be used to help finance the youth guarantee recommendation, which would help stem the growing tide of youth unemployment. this would significantly help to restore public confidence in the political and banking systems, which have been hurt as a result of the crisis.
mr president, i want to express my deep sympathy to savita halappanavar’s friends and families. she tragically died after being refused an abortion in ireland, despite repeated requests. apparently, she was told that this is a catholic country. what a disgracefully medieval state of affairs. it is 20 years since the x case. it has not been legislated for because of the inaction of successive governments involving all of the establishment parties. the irish government is now under massive pressure as a result of generalised outrage and very significant protests. that pressure must be kept up with the building of a powerful, national movement demanding abortion rights now. legislation for the x case, while very welcome, would be insufficient. what about when there are threats to women’s health, or in cases of rape or incest? free, legal and safe abortion facilities provided through the public health service for all women who require them are needed. this should be part of a struggle for a democratic, secular and social society that allows real choice, with the provision of contraceptives, progressive sex education and free public childcare, together with abortion rights.
mr president, i supported this report and commend the rapporteur on the wide-ranging examination of all aspects of fundamental rights in the eu which was presented to parliament during a week in which we also saw the presentation of the nobel peace prize and the sakharov prize. the report focused on the need for the eu to strengthen its human rights policy and to speak with one voice. it highlights the need for the promotion of core labour standards through free trade agreements. it calls on member states to put an end to discrimination and intolerance on all grounds, including gender, race, sexual orientation and religion, and it highlights violations of the rights of migrants and other minorities living in eu member states. if we are to challenge third countries on human rights we must ensure that human rights are fully protected in our own domestic policies. but i regret that other groups sought to undermine this report and have misrepresented elements of it, particularly in relation to women’s sexual and reproductive rights and lgbt rights.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo chomh maith leis na cinn eile a bhaineann le cearta daonna. ón tús, bhí cearta daonna an-tábhachtach don aontas, ní amháin do na tíortha taobh istigh den aontas ach freisin do na tíortha atá ag iarraidh teacht isteach – is sine qua non é dóibh. freisin nuair a bhímid ag plé le tíortha a bhfuilimid ag iarraidh comhaontú saorthrádála (fta) a bhunú leo tá cearta daonna an-tábhachtach freisin; na cearta daonna go léir, is é sin cearta sibhialta, cultúrtha, polaitíochta agus mar sin de. ach an rud is tábhachtaí ar fad ná go bhfuilimid ag tabhairt eur 1.1 billiún do na heagraíochtaí neamhrialtasacha (ngos) idir 2007 agus 2013 chun obair a dhéanamh ar an ábhar an-tábhachtach seo. taispeánann sé sin chomh dáiríre agus atáimid. ní nach ionadh go bhfuaireamar an duais nobel i rith na seachtaine seo as an méid atáimid ag déanamh ar son na síochána agus cearta daonna.
mr president, i voted against the resolution on the eu steel industry because it does not offer sufficient protection and solutions for steel workers threatened with redundancy. despite everything, the steel industry today is still massively profitable. the arcelormittal group, for example, made eur 1.7 billion profit in 2011. the ‘lack of profitability’ argument is primarily used to threaten workers into accepting wage cuts or to obtain even more in terms of tax breaks. in 2010 the financial arm of arcelormittal belgium, for instance, paid zero euros in taxes on eur 1.39 billion worth of profit. how many more workers will have to be sacked, how much more taxpayers’ money will have to be handed over to these multinational vulture capitalists before they are content? i fully support all steelworkers in europe currently struggling for their jobs and i support their demands for nationalisation. the factories have already been paid for many times over by the accumulated labour of generations of workers. they should be expropriated, run under democratic workers’ control and used for the benefit of society as a whole.
in writing. − i agree with all the points that this report makes in relation to the worrying deterioration of the human rights situation in russia. on many occasions, i have spoken out against the disgraceful arrest and prison sentence of the members of pussy riot and demanded their unconditional release. i am equally concerned about the repression against the political opposition in russia and the whipping up of nationalism, racism and xenophobia by the putin government. members of my sister party in russia are very involved in anti-racist struggles and actively defend lgtb rights, including the right to organise ‘gay pride’ marches which have now been banned in russia for 100 years as part of a general clamp-down on the right to organise and protest. the reason why i voted against the report in the main relates to the stand this report takes in relation to the national question in abkhazia and south ossetia. by explicitly referring to them as georgian territories, the report ignores the right of self determination of people living in those territories. it is solely up to them to decide on this vital issue while the rights of all ethnic and religious minorities need to be respected.
author. − mr president, the recent escalation of violence in the eastern provinces of congo, following a mutiny in the congolese army and the sacking of goma by m23 rebels, is, as a belgian aid worker described it, ‘a crisis upon a crisis upon a crisis’. the eastern congo has been devastated for decades by wars between different rebel groups and the army trying to gain control over the massive natural resources in the area. neighbouring countries conduct proxy wars by supporting various rebel groups in a bid to increase their influence and reap the profits. all rebel groups, together with the army, have engaged in gruesome human rights violations and terror tactics, including organised sexual violence on a massive scale. it is estimated that at least 48 women are raped in the country every single hour, adding up to a horrible 1 152 women a day. an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of these brutal wars since 1998. many more have been forced to flee their homes, and as many 140 000 more people have fled as a result of the most recent fighting. the us and the eu, together with the rulers of china, have supported the corrupt kabila regime financially, as well as militarily with 20 000 un soldiers, in the hope of achieving sufficient stability to continue the exploitation of the natural resources. their tactics have failed miserably. side by side with desperate poverty, with a gni per capita of less than one dollar per day, is the potential for this to be one of the richest areas in the world because of the enormous natural resources that are present. the warlords and government officials become millionaires by doing dirty deals with foreign multinational companies, which control the majority of these resources. together they organised a continuation of the colonial and imperialist looting that has gone on for over 130 years, leaving the people stripped of all of the potential wealth embedded in their natural resources. it is absolutely necessary that this horrible, endless cycle of wars and imperialist intervention is broken, and that real peace is brought to the region. for a lasting solution to undermine the basis of the warlords, it is necessary for the natural wealth and resources to be taken into democratic, public ownership and used in the interests of the population as a whole.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is cás tragóideach é an congó, go háirithe nuair a thuigeann tú gur ceart don tír seo a bheith ar cheann de na tíortha is saibhre ar domhan de bharr na n-acmhainní nádúrtha atá inti. ach ní mar sin atá. as has been pointed out, even though the democratic republic of congo has had independence for 50 years, there has been very little progress in terms of establishing real democracy and respect for law and order in the country. as a result, there is widespread violence, no respect whatsoever for women – as has been pointed out by previous speakers – and even, recently, as many as 600 schools have been looted. we just cannot make progress in a situation like that. it is incumbent on us, at european and un level, to try first of all to stabilise the country. secondly, countries like rwanda and uganda should be forced to butt out so that the congo can at least try to solve its problems with those who really want to help.
author. − mr president, the caste system is a reactionary, medieval remnant that has been used as a divide-and-rule tactic by the various ruling classes in india throughout the centuries. it was used by british imperialism, and since independence has been used by the ruling indian capitalist class. caste discrimination is indeed banned under the indian constitution. however, laws are one thing and reality is another. the laws against caste discrimination and manual scavenging are regularly ignored. hundreds of thousands of female dalits are engaged in manual scavenging, and dalit and adivasi women have a literacy rate of only 24%. the torching of almost 300 houses in dalit communities at the end of november, with no action taken by the police, illustrates the victimisation and attacks that they face. the caste system facilitates and legitimises conditions that allow the most grotesque and barbaric exploitation of workers. many eu-based multinationals profit from that system through the exploitation of cheap labour. there are up to 200 000 bonded labourers in tamil nadu working in the garment industry making clothes for many well-known western brands. rural poverty, which is hitting the most marginalised and poorest sections of india, is a growing problem. in the last 15 years, we have seen 250 000 farmers commit suicide as a result of the destruction of their livelihoods. there is an urgent need for radical land reform in india, including the distribution of land to small farmers. the growth and development of the indian economy that we have seen in recent years is only benefitting a minority of the indian population. in the past 20 years since the onset of aggressive neo-liberal reforms, millions have been pushed further into poverty and destitution. the proposals for foreign direct investment in multi-brand retailing will be a profits bonanza for the world’s major retail giants, but these profits will be made on the back of the destruction of the small retail sector, a sector that employs 40 million workers. marginalised groups such as the dalits will be particularly hard hit. i therefore fully support the 48-hour general strike in india this coming february, and i urge the indian workers and trade union movement to call for the complete revocation of fdi in all sectors and mobilise the opposition to other neo-liberal counter reforms.
mr president, india, being one of the bric countries, is one of the world’s great developing nations, something which we welcome immensely. however, while it is progressing economically it is not progressing socially. in some respects this is at least partly understandable, because old habits die hard. most societies have a certain amount of snobbery and hierarchy, but in india’s case such attitudes have historical legitimacy, and that is the problem here. it is going to take a long time to change those attitudes, but at the same time we need to work harder to do so from an international point of view. in particular, things like police reform should be demanded, as well as the implementation of the rules to ensure that there can be social inclusion. riitta korhola mentioned education. of course that is vital, because only 26% of dalits, for example, are literate. we should also ensure that there is a complete ban on child labour and scavenging.
